
     ----CITATION----
        Ewing, Juliana Horatia Gatty, 1841-1885. Jackanapes and the Brownies. .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2010).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB6984
     ----FULL TEXT----
        

        
            
            
            
                The Riverside Literature Series
                Each regular single number, paper, 15 cents. All prices of the Riverside Literature
                    Series are net, Educational, postpaid.
                
                    1. Longfellow's Evangeline.*‡
                    2. Longfellow's Courtship of Miles Standish;
                            Elizabeth.*
                    3. Longfellow's Courtship of Miles Standish.
                        DRAMATIZED.
                    4. Whittier's Snow-Bound, and Other Poems.*‡‡**
                    5. Whittier's Mabel Martin, and Other Poems.**
                    6. Holmes's Grandmother's Story of Bunker Hill Battle,
                            etc.***
                    7, 8, 9. Hawthorne's Grandfather's Chair. In three parts.‡‡
                    10. Hawthorne's Biographical Stories. With Questions.***
                    11. Longfellow's Children's Hour and Other Poems.**
                    12. Studies in Longfellow, Whittier, Holmes, and Lowell.
                    13, 14. Longfellow's Song of Hiawatha. In two parts.‡
                    15. Lowell's Under the Old Elm, and Other Poems.**
                    16. Bayard Taylor's Lars: a Pastoral of Norway; and Other
                            Poems.*
                    17, 18. Hawthorne's Wonder-Book. In two parts.‡
                    19, 20. Benjamin Franklin's Autobiography. In two parts.‡
                    21. Benjamin Franklin's Poor Richard's Almanac, etc.
                    22, 23. Hawthorne's Tanglewood Tales. In two parts.‡
                    24. Washington's Rules of Conduct, Letters, and Addresses.*
                    25, 26. Longfellow's Golden Legend. In two parts.‡
                    27. Thoreau's Succession of Forest Trees, Wild Apples, and
                            Sounds. With a Biographical Sketch by R. W. EMERSON.‡‡
                    28. John Burroughs's Birds and Bees.**‡‡
                    29. Hawthorne's Little Daffydowndilly, and Other Stories.***
                    30. Lowell's Vision of Sir Launfal, and Other Poems.*‡‡**
                    31. Holmes's My Hunt after the Captain, and Other Papers.**
                    32. Abraham Lincoln's Gettysburg Speech, etc.**
                    33, 34, 35. Longfellow's Tales of a Wayside Inn. In three
                            parts.‡‡
                    36. John Burroughs's Sharp Eyes, and Other Papers.**
                    37. Charles Dudley Warner's A-Hunting of the Deer, etc.*‡‡
                    38. Longfellow's Building of the Ship, and Other Poems.
                    39. Lowell's Books and Libraries, and Other Papers.*
                    40. Hawthorne's Tales of the White Hills, and Sketches.**
                    41. Whittier's Tent on the Beach, and Associated Poems.
                    42. Emerson's Fortune of the Republic. The American Scholar,
                            etc.**
                    43. Ulysses among the Phaeacians. From BRYANT'S Translation of Homer's
                            Odyssey.*
                    44. Edgeworth's Waste Not, Want Not; and The Barring
                        Out.
                    45. Macaulay's Lays of Ancient Rome.*
                    46. Old Testament Stories in Scripture Language.
                    47, 48. Fables and Folk Stories. In two parts.‡
                    49, 50. Hans Andersen's Stories. In two parts.‡
                    51, 52. Washington Irving : Essays from the Sketch Book. [51] Rip Van
                            Winkle, etc. [52] The Voyage, etc. In two parts.‡
                    53. Scott's Lady of the Lake. ROLFE. (Double
                            Number, 3o cents. Also, in Rolfe's Students' Series, cloth, to Teachers, 53
                        cents.)
                    54. Bryant's Sella, Thanatopsis, and Other Poems.*
                    55. Shakespeare's Merchant of Venice, THURBER.***
                    56. Webster's Bunker Hill Monument; Adams and Jefferson.*
                    57. Dickens's Christmas Carol.**
                    58. Dickens's Cricket on the Hearth.**
                    59. Verse and Prose for Beginners in Reading.*
                    60, 61. The Sir Roger de Coverley Papers.- In two parts.‡
                    62. John Fiske's War of Independence.§
                    63. Longfellow's Paul Revere's Ride, and Other Poems.**
                    64, 65, 66. Lambs' Tales from Shakespeare. In three parts.‡‡
                    67. Shakespeare's Julius Caesar.***
                    68. Goldsmith's Deserted Village, the Traveller, and Other
                            Poems.*
                
                 Also, bound in linen: * 25 cents.
                    ** 4 and 5, in one vol., 40 cents; likewise 6 and 31, 11 and
                        63, 28 and 36, 29 and 10, 30 and 15, 32 and 133, 39 and 123, 40 and 69, 42 and 113, 55 and 67,
                        57 and 58.
                    ‡ Also in one vol., 40 cents.
                    ‡‡ 1,4, and 30 also in one vol., 50 cents; likewise 7, 8, and
                        9; 28, 37, and 27; 33, 34, and 35; 64, 65, and 66.
                    § Double Number, paper, 30 cents; linen, 40 cents.
                
            

            
            

            

                
                    JACKANAPES  AND  THE BROWNIES
                
                BY 
                    JULIANA HORATIA EWING EDITED WITH INTRODUCTION AND NOTES
                    BY HENRY W. BOYNTON, M.A.
                
                
                
                
                HOUGHTON, MIFFLIN AND COMPANY
                    
                    Boston: 4 Park Street; New York: 85 Fifth Avenue
                    
                    Chicago : 378-388 Wabash Avenue
                    
                    THE RIVERSIDE PRESS, CAMBRIDGE

            
            

            
                CONTENTS
                
                    INTRODUCTION. . . . . . . . . . iii
                    JACKANAPES. . . . . . . . . . 1
                    THE BROWNIES. . . . . . . . . . 41
                
            

            
                Copyright, 1902, BY HOUGHTON, MIFFLIN & CO.
                    All rights reserved.
                    
                    The Riverside Press, Cambridge, Mass., U. S. A. Electrotyped and Printed by
                    H. O. Houghton & Company.
            

            

            
                INTRODUCTION
                ALFRED GATTY was an English clergyman,
                    vicar of Ecclesfield in Yorkshire, where in 1841 his daughter Juliana
                        Horatia, afterward Mrs. Ewing, was born. The
                        Gattys seem to have been an exceptionally clever family. While the children
                    were still very young they learned to amuse each other by story-telling, and a little later they
                    edited and wrote a story-magazine, which was not printed, but circulated in manuscript among their
                    friends. Juliana was particularly good as an oral
                    story-teller and mimic, and even as a child evidently had something of the magnetism which is so
                    important an element in her nature work. Indeed, one can hardly think of her written stories as mere
                    compositions; the author seems to be talking to us frankly and unaffectedly, and paper and ink serve
                    only as conductors for that sweet and friendly voice. Her first book of stories was published when
                    she was twenty-one years old, and from that time to the end of her not very long life she was
                    producing tales in prose and verse, most of them about children.
                In 1866 began the publication of " Aunt Judy's Magazine," edited by the Gattys,
                    and really the public continuation of the nursery magazine with which they had grown up. At
                    twenty-five Miss Juliana Gatty was married to Major Ewing of the British Army. Soon afterward hewas stationed in
                        New Brunswick, where Mrs. Ewing
                    and he lived for several  years. Here she naturally learned a good
                    deal about army life. It is odd that although she was continually writing stories, many of which
                    were published in "Aunt Judy's Magazine," it did not occur to her for some time to make literary use
                    of her army experience. At last in 1872, she wrote her first soldier story, "The Peace Egg." This
                    tale is not very well known now, but the two which followed, "Jackanapes," and "The Story of a Short
                    Life," not only became quickly popular, but are as widely read and as generously cried over to-day
                    as they ever were.
                In the mean time the Ewings had returned to England,
                    where Mrs. Ewing lived for the rest of her life. In 1873 a
                    part-editorship of "Aunt Judy's Magazine" fell into her hands, and was retained for about two years.
                    But she had always been delicate. The routine of regular work was very difficult for her; and when,
                    a few years after the return from New Brunswick, Major Ewing was transferred to Malta, she was not strong
                    enough to go with him. Consequently they were separated for several years, and when he was finally
                    ordered back to England she had not long to live; she died at
                        Bath in 1885.
                The secret of Mrs. Ewing's charm is hardly a secret at all.
                    As a woman she was simple, sympathetic, and universally beloved; and she was the rare sort of person
                    who is just as lovable in print as in real life. She is a writer of sentiment, but of sentiment
                    wholly free from mawkishness or strained pathos. Her work is marked by a tender humor which reminds
                    one of Dr. John Brown more than of anybody else. We are not so tolerant of the
                    pathetic as our fathers were in the days of Colonel Newcome and
                        Little Nell. A good many people find fault nowadays with Mrs. Ewing's  stories because they
                    are so sad. But if the reader is not too ready to be cast down, he will notice that Mrs. Ewing herself is never so sad that she is not a little merry
                    too. She does not admit that the sacrifice of Jackanapes's
                    life was a waste, or a slip on the part of Providence; and the lifelong grief of the poor
                        Doctor in "The Brownies," instead of embittering him, makes him more tender
                    and considerate of the happiness of those who have not yet known the hard discipline of bereavement.
                        Mrs. Ewing might not have been willing, considering them
                    from a larger point of view than what is comfortable to one's feelings, to admit that her stories do
                    not "turn out right." She evidently perceived that pain and death are as valuable incidents in human
                    experience as life and happiness; or, rather - for she was a great lover of life and happiness - she
                    seems to have felt that pain and death are preferable to selfishness and dishonor.
                Mrs. Ewing's style was the direct expression of her nature,
                    simple and spontaneous, yet with the unmistakable hall-mark of social and literary good-breeding. It
                    would not be an exaggeration to say, adapt- ing the phrase so often used of
                        Thackeray, that one of her chief distinctions is to have written like a
                    gentlewoman. But this quality alone would not account for her continued popularity, any more than to
                    have written like a gentleman accounts for Thackeray's. We must refer it rather
                    to the sweet and sound philosophy, the gracious womanhood, which are at the basis of all her
                    work.
            

            
        
        
            
            
                JACKANAPES

                
                    CHAPTER I.

                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    Last noon beheld them full of lusty life,
                                    Last eve in Beauty's circle proudly gay,
                                    The midnight brought the signal-sound of strife,
                                    The morn the marshalling in arms - the day
                                    "Battle's magnificently stern array !
                                    "The thunder-clouds rose o'er it, which when rent
                                    The earth is cover'd thick with other clay,
                                    Which her own clay shall cover, heap'd and pent,
                                    Rider and horse, - friend, foe, - in one red burial
                                        blent.
                                
                                
                                    Their praise is hymn'd by loftier harps than mine ;
                                    Yet one would I select from that proud throng.
                                
                                . . . . . . . . . . 
                                
                                    "To thee, to thousands, of whom each
                                    And one as all a ghastly gap did make
                                    In his own kind and kindred, whom to teach
                                    Forgetfulness were mercy for their sake;
                                    The Archangel's trump, not Glory's, must awake
                                    Those whom they thirst for.
                                
                                BYRON.1
                            
                        
                    
                    TWO Donkeys and the Geese lived on the Green, and all
                        other residents of any social standing lived in houses round it. The houses had no names.
                        Everybody's address was "The Green," but the Postman and the people of the place knew where each family lived. As to the rest
                        of the world, what has one to do with the rest of the world when one is safe at home on one's
                        own Goose Green? Moreover, if a stranger 1 Childe Harold, canto iii. 28-31.
                         did come on any lawful business, he might ask his way at the
                        shop.
                    Most of the inhabitants were long-lived, early deaths (like that of the little Miss Jessamine) being exceptional; and most of the old people
                        were proud of their age, especially the sexton, who would be ninety-nine come Martinmas,1 and whose father remembered a man who had carried
                        arrows, as a boy, for the battle of Flodden Field.2 The Gray Goose and the big
                            Miss Jessamine were the only elderly persons who kept
                        their ages secret. Indeed, Miss Jessamine never mentioned any
                        one's age, or recalled the exact year in which anything had happened. She said that she had been
                        taught that it was bad manners to do so "in a mixed assembly."
                    The Gray Goose also avoided dates; but this was partly because
                        her brain, though intelligent, was not mathematical, and computation was beyond her. She never
                        got farther than "last Michaelmas," "the Michaelmas before that," and "the Michaelmas before the
                        Michaelmas before that." After this her head, which was small, became confused, and she said, "
                        Ga, ga!" and changed the subject.
                    But she remembered the little Miss Jessamine, the Miss Jessamine with the "conspicuous" hair. Her aunt, the big
                            Miss Jessamine, said it was her only fault. The hair was
                        clean, was abundant, was glossy; but do what you would with it, it never looked quite like other
                        people's. And at church, after Saturday 1 The feast-day of
                            Martinmas falls on the 11th of November, Michaelmas on the 29th of
                                September.
                        2 The battle of Flodden Field was
                            fought September 9, 1513, and the Scotch, under King
                            James, totally defeated. The battle is described in the sixth canto of
                                    Scott's Marmion.
                         night's wash, it shone like the best brass fender after a
                        spring cleaning. In short, it was conspicuous, which does not become a young woman,1 especially in church.
                    Those were worrying times altogether, and the Green was used for strange
                        purposes. A political meeting was held on it with the village Cobbler in the chair, and a speaker who came by stage-coach from the town, where
                        they had wrecked the bakers' shops, and discussed the price of bread.2 He came a second time by stage; but the people had heard
                        something about him in the mean while, and they did not keep him on the
                            Green. They took him to the pond and tried to make him swim, which he
                        could not do, and the whole affair was very disturbing to all quiet and peaceable fowls. After
                        which another man came, and preached sermons on the Green, and a great
                        many people went to hear him; for those were "trying times," and folk ran hither and thither for
                        comfort. And then what did they do but drill the ploughboys on the Green,
                        to get them ready to fight the French, and teach them the goose-step! 3 However, that came to an end at last; for Bony was sent to St. Helena, 4 and the ploughboys were sent back to the plough.
                    Everybody lived in fear of Bony in those days, especially the naughty
                        children, who were kept in 1 " Which does not become a
                            young woman," is one of the favorite refrains of Mrs. Malaprop, in
                                    Sheridan's The Rivals.
                        2 This shows that the story begins in about
                                1911. Between 1811 and 1815 there were frequent
                            riots throughout England, due to the low rate of wages and the high
                            price of wheat.
                        3 Goose-step, lock-step, made necessary by the nearness of
                            the rear to the front rank.
                        4 This is anticipating by several years, as "Bony" (Emperor Napoleon Bonaparte)
                            was not sent to St. Helena till after his defeat at
                                Waterloo, in 1815.
                         order during the day by threats of "Bony shall have you," and who had nightmares about him in the dark. They thought
                        he was an Ogre in a cocked hat. The Gray Goose thought he was a
                        Fox, and that all the men of England were going out in red coats 1 to hunt him. It was no use to argue the point; for
                        she had a very small head, and when one idea got into it there was no room for another.

                    Besides, the Gray Goose never saw Bony, nor did the children, which rather spoilt the terror of him, so that the
                            Black Captain became more effective as a Bogy with
                        hardened offenders. The Gray Goose remembered his coming to the
                        place perfectly. What he came for she did not pretend to know. It was all part and parcel of the
                        war and bad times. He was called the Black Captain, partly
                        because of himself and partly because of his wonderful black mare. Strange stories were afloat
                        of how far and how fast that mare could go when her master's hand was on her mane and he
                        whispered in her ear. Indeed, some people thought we might reckon ourselves very lucky if we
                        were not out of the frying-pan into the fire, and had not got a certain well-known Gentleman of
                        the Road 2 to protect us against the French. But
                        that, of course, made him none the less useful to the Johnsons' Nurse when the little Miss Johnsons were naughty.
                    "You leave off crying this minnit, Miss
                                Jane, or I'11 give you right away to that horrid wicked officer. 1 The point is that the soldier and the fox-hunter both
                                wear red coats.
                            2 Gentleman of the Road is the romantic title given to
                                the highwayman in the eighteenth century, when his calling, though likely to end on the
                                gallows, was considered an honorable pro- fession by the common people.
                             Jemima ! just look out o' the windy, if you please, and see
                            if the Black Cap'n's coming with his horse to carry-away
                                Miss Jane."
                    And there, sure enough, the Black Captain strode by, with his
                        sword clattering as if he did not know whose head to cut off first. But he did not call for
                            Miss Jane that time. He went on to the
                            Green, where he came so suddenly upon the eldest Master Johnson, sitting in a puddle on purpose, in his new nankeen
                        skeleton suit,1 that the young gentleman thought
                        judgment had overtaken him at last, and abandoned himself to the howlings of despair. His howls
                        were redoubled when he was clutched from behind and swung over the Black
                            Captain's shoulder; but in five minutes his tears were stanched, and he was
                        playing with the officer's accoutrements. All of which the Gray
                            Goose saw with her own eyes, and heard afterwards that that bad boy had been
                        whining to go back to the Black Captain ever since, which
                        showed how hardened he was, and that nobody but Bonaparte
                        himself could be expected to do him any good.
                    But those were " trying times." It was bad enough when the pickle 2 of a large and respectable family cried for the Black CaptainBlack Captain : when it came to the little Miss Jessamine crying for him, one felt that the sooner the
                        French landed and had done with it, the better.
                    The big Miss Jessamine's objection to him was that he was a
                        soldier; and this prejudice was shared by all the Green. "A
                            soldier," as the speaker from the town had observed, "is a bloodthirsty,
                            unsettled sort of a rascal, that the peaceable, home-loving, 1 Nankeen skeleton suit, a suit made of a Chinese cotton, the trousers
                                buttoning directly upon the jacket.
                            2 Pickle, the "case," the most troublesome
                                member.
                             bread-winning citizen can never conscientiously look on as
                            a brother till he has beaten his sword into a ploughshare and his spear into a
                            pruning-hook."
                    On the other hand, there was some truth in what the Postman
                        (an old soldier) said in reply,-- that the sword has to cut a way for us out of many a scrape
                        into which our bread-winners get us when they drive their ploughshares into fallows that don't
                        belong to them. Indeed, whilst our most peaceful citizens were prosperous chiefly by means of
                        cotton, of sugar, and of the rise and fall of the money-market (not to speak of such salable
                        matters as opium, fire-arms, and "black ivory" 1),
                        disturbances were apt to arise in India, Africa,
                        and other outlandish parts, where the fathers of our domestic race were making fortunes for
                        their families. And for that matter, even on the Green, we did not wish
                        the military to leave us in the lurch, so long as there was any fear that the French were
                        coming.
                    To let the Black Captain have little Miss Jessamine, however, was another matter. Her aunt would not hear of it; and then, to crown all, it appeared that
                        the Captain's father did not think the good enough for his
                            son.2 Never was any affair more clearly brought
                        to a conclusion.
                    But those were " trying times" ; and one moonlight night, when the Gray
                            Goose was sound asleep upon one leg, the Green was rudely
                        shaken under her by the thud of a horse's feet. "Ga, ga!" said she,
                        put- ting down the other leg and running away. By the time she returned to her place not a thing
                        was to be seen or heard. The horse had passed like a shot. But next day there was hurrying and
                        skurrying 1 Black ivory, African slaves.
                        2 Of course "good enough" means of good enough
                            family.
                         and cackling at a very early hour, all about the white house
                        with the black beams, where Miss Jessamine lived.
                        And when the sun was so low and the shadows so long on the grass that the Gray Goose felt ready to run away at the sight of her own neck, little Miss Jane Johnson and her " particular friend " Clarinda sat under
                        the big oak-tree on the Green, and Jane pinched Clarinda's little finger till she found that she
                        could keep a secret, and then she told her in confidence that she had heard from Nurse and
                        Jemima that Miss Jessamine's niece had been a very naughty
                        girl, and that that horrid wicked officer had come for her on his black horse and carried her
                        right away.
                    " Will she never come back?" asked ClarindaClarinda.
                    "Oh, no!" said Jane decidedly. "Bony never brings people back."
                    "Not never no more?" sobbed Clarinda, for she was weak-minded, and could not bear to think that Bony never, never let naughty people go home again.
                    Next day Jane had heard more.
                    "He has taken her to a Green."
                    "A Goose Green?" asked Clarinda.
                    "No. A Gretna Green. 1 Don't ask so many questions, child," said Jane, who, having no more to tell, gave herself airs.
                    Jane was wrong on one point. Miss
                            Jessamine's niece did come back, and she and her husband were forgiven. The
                            Gray Goose remembered it well; it was Michaelmas-tide, the
                        Michaelmas before the Michaelmas before the Michaelmas--but, ga, ga! What does the date matter?
                        It was autumn, harvest time, and everybody was so busy prophesying and praying 1 Gretna Green was the famous
                            marrying-place, just across the border in Scotland, the goal of all
                            English elopements.
                        MRS. EWING. about the crops, that the young couple wandered
                        through the lanes, and got blackberries for  Miss Jessamine's
                        celebrated crab and blackberry jam, and made guys of themselves with bryony wreaths, and not a
                        soul troubled his head about them, except the children and the Postman. The children dogged the Black
                            Captain's footsteps (his bubble reputation as an Ogre having burst) clamoring for
                        a ride on the black mare. And the Postman would go somewhat
                        out of his postal way to catch the Captain's dark eye, and
                        show that he had not forgotten how to salute an officer.
                    But they were "trying times." One afternoon the black mare was stepping gently up and down the
                        grass, with her head at her master's shoulder, and as many children crowded on to her silky back
                        as if she had been an elephant in a menagerie; and the next afternoon she carried him away,
                        sword and sabretache
                        1 clattering war music at her side, and the old
                            Postman waiting for them, rigid with salutation, at the
                        four cross-roads.
                    War and bad times! It was a hard winter; and the big Miss
                            Jessamine and the little Miss Jessamine
                        (but she was Mrs. Black Captain now) lived very
                        economically, that they might help their poorer neighbors. They neither entertained nor went
                        into company; but the young lady always went up the village as far as the George and
                            Dragon,2 for air and exercise, when
                        the London Mail came in.
                    One day (it was a day in the following June) it 1
                            Sabretache, a sort of heavy leather scabbard (literally, " sword-pocket ") worn by
                            cavalry.
                        2 The George and Dragon is the
                            village inn, which undoubtedly stood behind a swinging sign painted with the figures of
                                St. George and the Dragon.
                         came in earlier than usual, and the young lady was not there to
                        meet it.
                    But a crowd soon gathered round the George and Dragon, gaping to see the
                        Mail Coach dressed with flowers and oak-leaves, and the guard wearing a laurel wreath over and
                        above his royal livery. The ribbons that decked the horses were stained and flecked with the
                        warmth and foam of the pace at which they had come, for they had pressed on with the news of
                            Victory.1
                    Miss Jessamine was sitting with her niece under the oak-tree
                        on the Green, when the Postman put a
                        newspaper silently into her hand. Her niece turned quickly, - 
                    "Is there news?"
                    "Don't agitate yourself, my dear," said her aunt. "I will read it aloud, and then we can enjoy it together; a far more comfortable method, my
                            love, than when you go up the village, and come home out of breath, having snatched half the
                            news as you run."
                     "I am all attention, dear aunt," said the little lady, clasping
                        her hands tightly on her lap.
                    Then Miss Jessamine read aloud, - she was proud of her
                        reading, - and the old soldier stood at attention behind her, with such a blending of pride and
                        pity on his face as it was strange to see :--
                    1 The English mail coach of the period of Waterloo was
                        considered a marvel of speed. It travelled fifteen miles an hour, while a modern express train
                        can make sixty miles an hour with ease, and seventy or eighty if necessary. But the hard thing
                        to realize is that less than a century ago news had to travel at the same slow rate, so that the
                        mail coach played a very important part at such moments as the Waterloo victory.


                    

                    
                        
                            
                                "DOWNING STREET, "June 22, 1815, 1 A. M."
                            
                        
                    
                    "That's one in the morning," gasped the Postman; "beg your pardon, mum."
                    But though he apologized, he could not refrain from echoing here and there a weighty word : " Glorious victory,"- " Two hundred pieces of artillery," --" Immense quantity
                            of ammunition," - and so forth.
                    
                        
                            
                                "The loss of the British Army upon this occasion has unfortunately been most severe.
                                    It had not been possible to make out a return of the killed and wounded when
                                        Major Percy left headquarters. The names of the officers
                                    killed and wounded, as far as they can be collected, are annexed.
                                "I have the honor - "
                            
                        
                    
                    "The list, aunt! Read the list! "
                    "My love - my darling - let us go in and - "
                    "No. Now! now!"
                    To one thing the supremely afflicted are entitled in their sorrow, - to be obeyed; and yet it is
                        the last kindness that people commonly will do them. But Miss
                            Jessamine did. Steadying her voice, as best she might, she read on; and the old
                        soldier stood bareheaded to hear that first Roll of the Dead at Waterloo, which began with the
                            Duke of Brunswick and ended with Ensign Brown.
                        Five- and-thirty British Captains fell asleep that day on the Bed of Honor, and the Black Captain slept among them.
                    There are killed and wounded by war, of whom no returns reach Downing
                            Street.

                    

                    Three days later, the Captain's wife had joined him, and Miss Jessamine was
                        kneeling by the cradle of their orphan son, a purple-red
                        morsel of humanity, with conspicuously golden hair.
                    " Will he live, Doctor?"
                    "Live? Bless my soul, ma'am! Look at him! The young Jackanapes!"
                

                
                    CHAPTER II.
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    And he wandered away and away
                                    With Nature, the dear old Nurse.
                                
                                LONGFELLOW.
                            
                        
                    
                    THE
                        Gray Goose remembered quite well the year that Jackanapes began to walk, for it was the year that the speckled
                        hen for the first time in all her motherly life got out of patience when she was sitting. She
                        had been rather proud of the eggs, - they were unusually large, - but she never felt quite
                        comfortable on them; and whether it was because she used to get cramp and go off the nest, or
                        because the season was bad, or what, she never could tell; but every egg was addled but one, and
                        the one that did batch gave her more trouble than any chick she had ever reared.
                    It was a fine, downy, bright yellow little thing, but it had a monstrous big nose and feet, and
                        such an ungainly walk as she knew no other instance of in her well-bred and high-stepping
                        family. And as to behavior, it was not that it was either quarrelsome or moping, but simply
                        unlike the rest. When the other chicks hopped and cheeped on the Green
                        about their mother's feet, this solitary yellow brat went waddling off on its own
                        responsibility, and do or cluck  what the speckled hen would,
                        it went to play in the Pond.
                    It was off one day as usual, and the hen was fussing and fuming after it, when the Postman, going to deliver a letter at Miss
                            Jessamine's door, was nearly knocked over by the good lady herself, who, bursting
                        out of the house with her cap just off and her bonnet just not on, fell into his arms, crying, - 
                    "Baby! Baby! Jackanapes! Jackanapes!"
                    If the Postman loved anything on earth, he loved the Captain's yellow-haired child; so, propping Miss Jessamine against her own door-post, he followed the direction of her
                        trembling fingers and made for the Green.
                    Jackanapes had had the start of the Postman by nearly ten minutes. The world - the round, green world with an
                        oak-tree on it - was just becoming very interesting to him. He had tried, vigorously but
                        ineffectually, to mount a passing pig the last time he was taken out walking; but then he was
                        encumbered with a nurse. Now he was his own master, and might, by courage and energy, become the
                        master of that delightful downy, dumpy, yellow thing that was bobbing along over the green grass
                        in front of him. Forward! Charge! He aimed well, and grabbed it, but only to feel the delicious
                        downiness and dumpiness slipping through his fingers as he fell upon his face.
                            "Quack!" said the yellow thing, and wabbled off sideways. It was this oblique
                        movement that enabled Jackanapes to come up with it, for
                        it was bound for the Pond, and therefore obliged to come back into line. He failed again from
                        top-heaviness, and his prey escaped sideways as before, and, as before, lost ground in getting
                        back to the direct road to the Pond.

                    

                    And at the Pond the Postman found them both, - one yellow
                        thing rocking safely on the ripples that lie beyond duck-weed, and the other washing his
                        draggled frock with tears because he too had tried to sit upon the Pond and it would n't hold
                        him.
                

                
                    CHAPTER III.
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    If studious, copy fair what time hath blurred,
                                    Redeem truth from his jaws: if soldier,
                                    Chase brave employments with a naked sword
                                    Throughout the world. Fool not ; for all may have,
                                    If they dare try, a glorious life, or grave.
                                    . . . . . . . . . . 
                                
                                
                                    In brief, acquit thee bravely : play the man.
                                    Look not on pleasures as they come, but go.
                                    Defer not the least virtue: life's poor span
                                    Make not an ell, by trifling in thy woe.
                                    If thou do ill, the joy fades, not the pains.
                                    If well : the pain doth fade, the joy remains.
                                
                                GEORGE HERBERT.1
                            
                        
                    
                    YOUNGMrs. Johnson, who was a mother of many,
                        hardly knew which to pity more, - Miss Jessamine for having
                        her little ways and her antimacassars 2 rumpled by
                        young Jackanapes, or the boy himself for being brought up
                        by an old maid.
                    Oddly enough she would probably have pitied neither, had Jackanapes been a girl. (One is so apt to think that what works smoothest, works
                        to the highest ends, having no patience for the results of friction.) That
                            Father in God who bade the young 1 From The Church
                            Porch.
                        2 Antimacassars were crocheted coverings hung upon the
                            backs of sofas and chairs to protect them from the macassar oil then commonly put on the
                            hair.
                         men to be pure and the maidens brave, greatly disturbed a
                        member of his congregation, who thought that the great preacher had made a slip of the
                        tongue.
                    "That the girls should have purity, and the boys courage, is what you would say, good
                                Father?"
                    "Nature has done that," was the reply; "I meant what I said."
                    In good sooth, a young maid is all the better for learning some robuster virtues than
                        maidenliness and not to move the antimacassars; and the robuster virtues require some fresh air
                        and freedom. As, on the other hand, Jackanapes (who had a
                        boy's full share of the little beast and the young monkey in his natural composition) was none
                        the worse, at his tender years, for learning some maidenliness, - so far as maidenliness means
                        decency, pity, unselfishness, and pretty behavior.
                    And it is due to him to say that he was an obedient boy, and a boy whose word could be depended
                        on, long before his grandfather the General came to live at
                        the Green.
                    He was obedient; that is, he did what his great-aunt told him. But - oh, dear! oh, dear ! - the
                        pranks he played, which it had never entered into her head to forbid!
                    It was when he had just been put into skeletons (frocks never suited him) that he became very
                        friendly with Master Tony Johnson, a younger brother of the
                        young gentleman who sat in the puddle on purpose. Tony was not
                        enterprising, and Jackanapes led him by the nose. One
                        summer's evening they were out late, and Miss Jessamine was
                        becoming anxious, when Jackanapes presented himself with a
                        ghastly face all besmirched with tears. He was unusually subdued.

                    

                    "I'm afraid," he sobbed, - "if you please,
                            I'm very much afraid that Tony Johnson's dying in the
                            churchyard."
                    Miss Jessamine was just beginning to be distracted, when she
                        smelt Jackanapes.
                    "You naughty, naughty boys! Do you mean to tell me that you 've been
                            smoking?"
                    "Not pipes," urged Jackanapes; "upon my honor, aunty, not pipes. Only cigars
                            like Mr. Johnson's! and only made of brown paper with a very,
                            very little tobacco from the shop inside them."
                    Whereupon Miss Jessamine sent a servant to the churchyard, who
                        found Tony Johnson lying on a tombstone, very sick, and having
                        ceased to entertain any hopes of his own recovery.
                    If it could be possible that any "unpleasantness" could arise between two such amiable neighbors
                        as Miss Jessamine and Mrs.
                            Johnson, and if the still more incredible paradox can be that ladies may differ
                        over a point on which they are agreed, that point was the admitted fact that Tony Johnson was "delicate"; and the difference lay chiefly in this:
                            Mrs. Johnson said that Tony
                        was delicate, - meaning that he was more finely strung, more sensitive, a properer subject for
                        pampering and petting, than Jackanapes, and that,
                        consequently, Jackanapes was to blame for leading
                            Tony into scrapes which resulted in his being chilled,
                        frightened, or (most frequently) sick. But when Miss
                            Jessamine said that Tony Johnson was delicate,
                        she meant that he was more puling, less manly, and less healthily brought up than Jackanapes, who, when they got into mischief together, was
                        certainly not to blame because his friend could not get wet, sit a kicking donkey, ride in the
                        giddy-go-round, bear the noise of  a cracker, or smoke brown
                        paper with impunity, as he could.
                    Not that there was ever the slightest quarrel between the ladies. It never even came near it,
                        except the day after Tony had been so very sick with riding
                            Bucephalus1 in the giddy-go-round. Mrs. Johnson had explained to Miss
                            Jessamine that the reason Tony was so easily
                        upset was the unusual sensitiveness (as a doctor had explained it to her) of the nervous centres
                        in her family - "Fiddlestick!" So Mrs. Johnson understood
                            Miss Jessamine to say; but it appeared that she only said
                        "Treaclestick!" 2 - which is quite another thing, and
                        of which Tony was undoubtedly fond.
                    It was at the Fair that Tony was made ill by riding on
                        Bucephalus. Once a year the Goose Green became the scene of a carnival.
                        First of all, carts and caravans were rumbling up all along, day and night. Jackanapes could hear them as he lay in bed, and could hardly
                        sleep for speculating what booths and whirligigs he should find fairly established when he and
                        his dog Spitfire went out after breakfast. As a matter of fact, he seldom had to wait so long
                        for news of the Fair. The Postman knew the window out of
                        which Jackanapes' yellow head would come, and was ready
                        with his report.
                    "Royal Theayter, Master Jackanapes, in
                            the old place, but be careful o' them seats, sir; they're ricketier than ever. Two sweets
                                3 and a ginger beer under the oak-tree, and
                            the Flying Boats is just a-coming along the road."
                    1 Bucephalus was the horse of Alexander the Great.
                    2 Treaclestick! Treacle is what we call molasses, so this means
                        a stick of molasses candy.
                    3 Sweets, candy-booths.

                    

                    No doubt it was partly because he had already suffered severely in the Flying Boats that
                            Tony collapsed so quickly in the giddy-go-round. He only
                        mounted Bucephalus (who was spotted, and had no tail) because Jackanapes urged him, and held out the ingenious hope that the round-and-round
                        feeling would very likely cure the up-and-down sensation. It did not, however, and Tony tumbled off during the first revolution.
                    Jackanapes was not absolutely free from qualms; but having
                        once mounted the Black Prince, he stuck to him as a horseman should. During his first round he
                        waved his hat, and observed with some concern that the Black Prince had lost an ear since last
                        Fair; at the second, he looked a little pale, but sat upright, though somewhat unnecessarily
                        rigid; at the third round he shut his eyes. During the fourth his hat fell off, and he clasped
                        his horse's neck. By the fifth he had laid his yellow head against the Black Prince's mane, and
                        so clung anyhow till the hobby-horses stopped, when the proprietor assisted him to alight, and
                        he sat down rather suddenly and said he had enjoyed it very much.
                    The Gray Goose always ran away at the first approach of the
                        caravans, and never came back to the Green till there was nothing left of
                        the Fair but footmarks and oyster-shells. Running away was her pet principle; the only system,
                        she maintained, by which you can live long and easily and lose nothing. If you run away when you
                        see danger, you can come back when all is safe. Run quickly, return slowly, hold your head high,
                        and gabble as loud as you can, and you'll preserve the respect of the Goose
                            Green to a peaceful old age. Why should you struggle and get  hurt, if you can lower your head and not swerve, and not lose a
                        feather? Why in the world should any one spoil the pleasure of life, or risk his skin, if he can
                        help it?
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    "'What's the use?'
                                    Said the Goose."
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    Before answering which one might have to consider what world, which life, and whether one's skin
                        were a goose-skin; but the Gray Goose's head would never have
                        held all that.
                    Grass soon grows over footprints, and the village children took the oyster-shells to trim their
                        gardens with; but the year after Tony rode Bucephalus there
                        lingered another relic of Fair-time in which Jackanapes
                        was deeply interested. "The Green" proper was originally only part of a
                        straggling common, which in its turn merged into some wilder waste land where Gypsies sometimes
                        squatted if the authorities would allow them, especially after the annual Fair. And it was after
                        the Fair that Jackanapes, out rambling by himself, was
                        knocked over by the Gypsy's son
                        riding the Gypsy's red-haired pony at breakneck pace across the common.
                    Jackanapes got up and shook himself, none the worse except
                        for being heels over head in love with the red-haired pony.
                        What a rate he went at! How he spurned the ground with his nimble feet! How his red coat shone
                        in the sunshine! And what bright eyes peeped out of his dark forelock as it was blown by the
                        wind !
                    The Gypsy boy had had a fright, and he was willing enough to
                        reward Jackanapes for not having been hurt, by consenting
                        to let him have a ride. "Do you mean to kill the little fine gentleman, and
                                 swing us all on the gibbet, you rascal?"
                        screamed the Gypsy mother, who came up just as Jackanapes and the pony set
                        off.
                    "He would get on," replied her son. "It 'll not kill
                            him. He'll fall on his yellow head, and it's as tough as a cocoanut."
                    But Jackanapes did not fall. He stuck to the red-haired
                        pony as he had stuck to the hobby-horse; but, oh, how different the delight of this wild gallop
                        with flesh and blood! Just as his legs were beginning to feel as if he did not feel them, the
                        Gypsy boy cried, "Lollo!" Round went the pony so unceremoniously that with as little
                        ceremony Jackanapes clung to his neck; and he did not
                        properly recover himself before Lollo stopped with a jerk at
                        the place where they had started.
                    "Is his name Lollo?" asked
                            Jackanapes, his hand lingering in the wiry mane.
                    "Yes."
                    "What does Lollo mean?"
                    "Red."
                    "Is Lollo your pony?"
                    "No. My father's." And the Gypsy boy led
                            Lollo away.
                    At the first opportunity Jackanapes stole away again to the
                        common. This time he saw the Gypsy father, smoking a dirty
                        pipe.
                    "Lollo is your pony, is n't he?"
                        said Jackanapes.
                    "Yes."
                    "He's a very nice one."
                    "He's a racer."
                    "You don't want to sell him, do you?"
                    "Fifteen pounds," said the Gypsy father; and Jackanapes sighed and went home
                        again. That very  afternoon he and Tony rode the two donkeys; and Tony managed to
                        get thrown, and even Jackanapes' donkey kicked. But it was
                        jolting, clumsy work after the elastic swiftness and the dainty mischief of the red-haired
                        pony.
                    A few days later, Miss Jessamine spoke very seriously to
                            Jackanapes. She was a good deal agitated as she told
                        him that his grandfather the General was coming to the
                            Green, and that he must be on his very best behavior during the
                        visit. If it had been feasible to leave off calling him Jackanapes and to get used to his baptismal name of Theodore before the day after to-morrow (when the General was due), it would have been satisfactory. But Miss Jessamine feared it would be impossible in practice, and she had scruples
                        about it on principle. It would not seem quite truthful, although she had always most fully
                        intended that he should be called Theodore when he had
                        outgrown the ridiculous appropriateness of his nickname. The fact was that he had not outgrown
                        it, but he must take care to remember who was meant when his grandfather said Theodore. Indeed, for that matter, he must take care all
                        along.
                    "You are apt to be giddy, Jackanapes," said Miss Jessamine.
                    "Yes, aunt," said Jackanapes,
                        thinking of the hobby-horses.
                    "You are a good boy, Jackanapes. Thank
                            God, I can tell your grandfather that. An obedient boy, an honorable boy, and a kind-hearted
                            boy. But you are - in short, you are a Boy, Jackanapes. And I hope," added Miss
                            Jessamine, desperate with the result of experience, " that
                            the General knows that Boys will be Boys."

                    

                    What mischief could be foreseen, Jackanapes promised to
                        guard against. He was to keep his clothes and his hands clean, to look over his catechism, not
                        to put sticky things in his pockets, to keep that hair of his smooth ("It's the wind that blows it, aunty," said
                            Jackanapes - "I'll send by the coach for some
                        bear's-grease," said Miss Jessamine, tying a knot in her
                        pocket handkerchief), - not to burst in at the parlor door, not to talk at the top of his voice,
                        not to crumple his Sunday frill, and to sit quite quiet during the sermon, to be sure to say
                        "sir" to the General, to be careful about rubbing his shoes
                        on the door-mat, and to bring his lesson-books to his aunt at once that she might iron down the
                        dogs' ears. The General arrived; and for the first day all
                        went well, except that Jackanapes' hair was as wild as
                        usual, for the hair-dresser had no bear's-grease left. He began to feel more at ease with his
                        grandfather, and disposed to talk confidentially with him, as he did with the Postman. All that the General
                        felt, it would take too long to tell; but the result was the same. He was disposed to talk
                        confidentially with Jackanapes.
                    "Mons'ous pretty place, this," he said, looking out of the lattice on
                        to the Green, where the grass was vivid with sunset and the shadows were
                        long and peaceful.
                    "You should see it in Fair-week, sir," said Jackanapes, shaking his yellow mop, and leaning back in his one
                        of the two Chippendale 1 armchairs in which they
                        sat.
                    "A fine time that, eh?" said the General, with a twinkle in his left eye (the other was glass).
                    Jackanapes shook his hair once more. "I 1 Chippendale'was a noted English furniture
                                maker.
                             enjoyed this last one the best of all," he said.
                            "I 'd so much money."
                    "By George, it's not a common complaint in these bad times. How much had ye
                            ?"
                    "I 'd two shillings. A new shilling aunty gave me, and elevenpence I had
                            saved up, and a penny from the Postman, - sir!" added Jackanapes with a jerk, having forgotten it.
                    "And how did ye spend it, - sir?" inquired the
                            General.
                    Jackanapes spread his ten fingers on the arms of his chair,
                        and shut his eyes that he might count the more conscientiously.
                    " Watch-stand for aunty, threepence. Trumpet for myself, twopence; that's
                            fivepence. Gingernuts for Tony, twopence, and a mug with a
                            Grenadier on for the Postman, fourpence; that 's
                            elevenpence. Shooting-gallery a penny; that's a shilling. Giddy- go-round, a penny; that's
                            one and a penny. Treating Tony, one and twopence. Flying
                            Boats (Tony paid for himself), a penny, one and threepence.
                            Shooting-gallery again, one and fourpence; Fat Woman a penny, one and fivepence.
                            Giddy-go-round again, one and sixpence. Shooting-gallery, one and sevenpence. Treating
                                Tony, and then he would n't shoot, so I did, one and
                            eightpence. Living Skeleton, a penny--no, Tony treated me,
                            the Living Skeleton does n't count. Skittles, 1 a
                            penny, one and ninepence. Mermaid (but when we got inside she was dead), a penny, one and
                            tenpence. Theatre, a penny (Priscilla Partington, or the Green Lane Murder. A beautiful
                            young lady, sir, with pink cheeks and a real 1 Skittles
                                is an English game like ninepins, but played with wooden disks instead of balls.
                             pistol); that's one and elevenpence. Ginger beer, a penny
                            (I was so thirsty!), two shillings. And then the shooting-gallery man gave me a turn for
                            nothing, because, he said, I was a real gentleman, and spent my money like a
                        man."
                    " So you do, sir, so you do!" cried the General. " Egad, sir, you spent it like a prince. And now I
                            suppose you 've not a penny in your pocket ? "
                    "Yes, I have," said Jackanapes. " Two pennies. They are saving up."
                        And Jackanapes jingled them with his hand.
                    "You don't want money except at Fair-times, I suppose ? " said the
                            General.
                    Jackanapes shook his mop.
                    " If I could have as much as I want, I should know what to buy,"
                        said he.
                    " And how much do you want, if you could get it ?"
                    "Wait a minute, sir, till I think what twopence from fifteen pounds
                            leaves. Two from nothing you can't, but borrow twelve. Two from twelve, ten, and carry one.
                            Please remember ten, sir, when I ask you. One from nothing you can't, borrow twenty. One
                            from twenty nineteen, and carry one. One from fifteen, fourteen. Fourteen pounds nineteen
                            and - what did I tell you to remember ? "
                    "Ten," said the General.
                    " Fourteen pounds nineteen shillings and tenpence, then, is what I
                            want," said Jackanapes.
                    " God bless my soul! what for ?"
                    "To buy Lollo with. Lollo means red, sir. The Gypsy's
                            red-haired pony, sir. Oh, he is beautiful! You should see his coat in the sunshine ! You
                            should see his mane! You should see his tail! Such little 
                            feet, sir, and they go like lightning ! Such a dear face, too, and eyes like a mouse ! But
                            he's a racer, and the Gypsy wants fifteen pounds for
                            him."
                    " If he 's a racer you could n't ride him. Could you ?"
                    " No-o, sir, but I can stick to him. I did the other day."
                    " The dooce you did! Well, I 'm fond of riding myself; and if the beast is as
                            good as you say, he might suit me."
                    "You're too tall for Lollo, I
                            think," said Jackanapes, measuring his
                        grandfather with his eye.
                    " I can double up my legs, I suppose. We 'll have a look at him
                            to-morrow."
                    "Don't you weigh a good deal? " asked Jackanapes.
                    "Chiefly waistcoats," said the GeneralGeneral, slapping the breast of his military frock coat. " We 'll have the little racer on the Green the first
                            thing in the morning. Glad you mentioned it, grandson; glad you mentioned it."
                    The General was as good as his word. Next morning the
                            Gypsy and Lollo, Miss Jessamine, Jackanapes
                        and his grandfather and his dog Spitfire, were all gathered at
                        one end of the Green in a group, which so aroused the innocent curiosity
                        of Mrs. Johnson, as she saw it from one of her upper windows,
                        that she and the children took their early promenade rather earlier than usual. The General talked to the Gypsy, and
                            Jackanapes fondled Lollo's mane, and did not know whether he should be more glad or miserable if
                        his grandfather bought him.
                    "Jackanapes ! "

                    

                    " Yes, sir ! "
                    "I 've bought Lollo, but I believe you were
                            right. He hardly stands high enough for me. If you can ride him to the other end of the
                                Green, I 'll give him to you."
                    How Jackanapes tumbled on to Lollo's back he never knew. He had just gathered up the reins when the Gypsy father took him by the arm.
                    "If you want to make Lollo go fast, my little
                            gentleman - "
                    "I can make him go! " said Jackanapes; and drawing from his pocket the trumpet he had bought in the Fair,
                        he blew a blast both loud and shrill.
                    Away went Lollo, and away went Jackanapes' hat. His golden hair flew out, an aureole from which his cheeks
                        shone red and distended with trumpeting. Away went Spitfire, mad
                        with the rapture of the race and the wind in his silky ears. Away went the geese, the cocks, the
                        hens, and the whole family of Johnson. Lucy clung to her mamma, Jane saved Emily by the gathers
                        of her gown, and Tony saved himself by a somersault.
                    The Gray Gooose was just returning when Jackanapes and Lollo rode back,
                            Spitfire panting behind.
                    " Good, my little gentleman, good!" said the Gypsy. " You were born to the saddle. You've the flat thigh,
                            the strong knee, the wiry back, and the light caressing hand; all you want is to learn the
                            whisper. Come here!"
                    " What was that dirty fellow talking about, grand- son ? " asked the
                            General.
                    "I can't tell you, sir. It's a secret."
                    The two were sitting in the window again, in the Chippendale armchairs, the General devouring every  line of
                        his grandson's face, with strange spasms crossing his own.
                    "You must love your aunt very much, Jackanapes ? "
                    "I do, sir," said Jackanapes
                        warmly.
                    " And whom do you love next best to your aunt ?"
                    The ties of blood were pressing very strongly on the General
                        himself, and perhaps he thought of Lollo. But love is not
                        bought in a day, even with fourteen pounds nineteen shillings and tenpence. Jackanapes answered quite readily, "The
                                Postman."
                    " Why the Postman ? "
                    "He knew my father," said Jackanapes, "and he tells me about him and about his
                            black mare. My father was a soldier, a brave soldier. He died at
                                Waterloo. When I grow up I want to be a soldier, too."
                    "So you shall, my boy; so you shall."
                    "Thank you, grandfather. Aunty does n't want me to be a soldier, for fear
                            of being killed."
                    " Bless my life ! Would she have you get into a feather-bed and stay there?
                            Why, you might be killed by a thunderbolt if you were a butter merchant! "
                    "So I might. I shall tell her so. What a funny fellow you are, sir! I say,
                            do you think my father knew the Gypsy's secret? The
                                Postman says he used to whisper to his black
                            mare."
                    "Your father was taught to ride, as a child, by one of those horsemen of the
                            East who swoop and dart and wheel about a plain like swallows in autumn. Grandson! love me a
                            little, too. I can tell you more about your father than the Postman can."


                    

                    "I do love you," said Jackanapes. "Before you came I was frightened. I'd no
                            notion you were so nice."
                    "Love me always, boy, whatever I do or leave undone. And - God help me ! -
                            whatever you do or leave undone, I'll love you. There shall never be a cloud between us for
                            a day; no, sir, not for an hour. We're imperfect enough, all of us - we need n't be so
                            bitter; and life is uncertain enough at its safest - we need n't waste its opportunities.
                            God bless my soul! Here sit I, after a dozen battles and some of the worst climates in the
                            world, and by yonder lych gate 1 lies your
                            mother, who did n't move five miles, I suppose, from your aunt's apron-strings, - dead in
                            her teens; my golden-haired daughter, whom I never saw ! "
                    Jackanapes was terribly troubled.
                    "Don't cry, grandfather," he pleaded, his own blue eyes round with
                        tears. " I will love you very much, and I will try to be very good. But I
                            should like to be a soldier."
                    " You shall, my boy; you shall. You've more claims for a commission than you
                            know of. Cavalry, I suppose; eh, ye young Jackanapes?
                            Well, well; if you live to be an honor to your country, this old heart shall grow young
                            again with pride for you; and if you die in the service of your country - egad, sir, it can
                            but break for ye ! "
                    And beating the region which he said was all waistcoats, as if they stifled him, the old man got
                        up and strode out on to the Green.
                    1 A lych gate is a gate covered by a roof, and common in
                        English churchyards.
                


                

                
                    CHAPTER IV.

                    
                        
                            Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends.
                                    - JOHN xv. 13.
                        
                    

                    TWENTY and odd years later the Gray Goose was
                        still alive, and in full possession of her faculties, such as they were. She lived slowly and
                        carefully, and she lived long. So did Miss Jessamine; but the
                            General was dead.
                    He had lived on the Green for many years, during which he and the
                            Postman saluted each other with a punctiliousness that it
                        almost drilled one to witness. He would have completely spoiled Jackanapes if Miss Jessamine's conscience
                        would have let him; otherwise he somewhat dragooned 1
                        his neighbors, and was as positive about parish matters as a ratepayer 2 about the army; - a stormy-tempered, tender-hearted soldier,
                        irritable with the suffering of the wounds of which he never spoke, whom all the village
                        followed to his grave with tears.
                    The General's death was a great shock to Miss Jessamine, and her nephew stayed with her for some little time
                        after the funeral. Then he was obliged to join his regiment, which was ordered abroad.
                    One effect of the conquest which the General had gained over
                        the affections of the village was a considerable abatement of the popular prejudice against "the
                        military." Indeed, the village was now somewhat importantly represented in the army. There was
                        the General himself, and the Postman, and the Black Captain's tablet in
                        the church, and Jackanapes, and Tony
                            Johnson, and a Trumpeter.
                    1 Dragooned, bullied.
                    2 Ratepayer, taxpayer.

                    

                    Tony Johnson had no more natural taste for fighting than for
                        riding, but he was as devoted as ever to Jackanapes. And
                        that was how it came about that Mr. Johnson bought him a
                        commission in the same cavalry regiment that the General's
                        grandson (whose commission had been given him by the Iron Duke
                        1) was in; and that he was quite content to be the
                        butt of the mess where Jackanapes was the hero; and that when Jackanapes wrote home to Miss
                        Jessamine, Tony wrote with the same purpose to his mother, - namely, to demand her
                        congratulations that they were on; active service at last, and were ordered to the front. And he
                        added a postscript, to the effect that she could have no idea how popular Jackanapes was, nor
                        how splendidly he rode the wonderful red charger which he had named after his old friend
                        Lollo.
                    . . . . . . . . . . 
                    "Sound ' Retire!' "
                    A Boy Trumpeter, grave with the weight of responsibilities
                        and accoutrements beyond his years, and stained so that his own mother would not have known him,
                        with the sweat and dust of battle, did as he was bid; and then, pushing his trumpet pettishly
                        aside, adjusted his weary legs for the hundredth time to the horse which was a world too big for
                        him and muttering, "'T ain't a pretty tune," tried to see something
                        of this his first engagement before it came to an end.
                    Being literally in the thick of it, he could hardly have seen less or known less of what happened
                        in that particular skirmish if he had been at home in England. For many
                        good reasons, - including dust and smoke, and that what attention he dared distract from his
                            1 The "Iron Duke" was
                            the popular name for the Duke of Wellington, victor at
                                Waterloo.
                         commanding officer was pretty well absorbed by keeping his
                        hard-mouthed troop-horse in hand, under pain of execration by his neighbors in the melee.1 By and by, when the newspapers came out, if he could
                        get a look at one before it was thumbed to bits, he would learn that, the enemy had appeared
                        from ambush in overwhelming numbers, and that orders had been given to fall back, which was done
                        slowly and in good order, the men fighting as they retired.
                    Born and bred on the Goose Green, the youngest of Mr.
                            Johnson's gardener's numerous offspring, the boy had given his family "no peace "
                        till they let him "go for a soldier " with Master Tony and
                        Master Jackanapes. They consented at last, with more tears
                        than they shed when an elder son was sent to jail for poaching; and the boy was perfectly happy
                        in his life, and full of esprit de corps.
                            2 It was this which had been wounded by having to
                        sound retreat for " the young gentlemen's regiment," the first time
                        he served with it before the enemy; and he was also harassed by having completely lost sight of
                        Master Tony. There had been some hard fighting before the
                        backward movement began, and he had caught sight of him once, but not since. On the other hand,
                        all the pulses of his village pride had been stirred by one or two visions of Master Jackanapes whirling about on his wonderful horse. He had been
                        easy to distinguish, since an eccentric blow had bared his head without hurting it; for his
                        close golden mop of hair gleamed in the hot sunshine as brightly as the steel of the sword
                        flashing round it.
                    Of the missiles that fell pretty thickly, the Boy 1 Melee,
                            confused hand-to-hand encounter.
                        2 Esprit de corps, pride in his regiment.
                        
                        TrumpeterTrumpeter did not take much notice. First, one
                        can't attend to everything, and his hands were full; secondly, one gets used to anything;
                        thirdly, expe- rience soon teaches one, in spite of proverbs, how very few bullets find their
                            billet.1 Far more unnerving is the mere suspicion
                        of fear or even of anxiety in the human mass around you. The Boy was beginning to wonder if there were any dark reason for the increasing
                        pressure, and whether they would be allowed to move back more quickly, when the smoke in front
                        lifted for a moment, and he could see the plain, and the enemy's line some two hundred yards
                        away. And across the plain between them, he saw Master Jackanapes galloping alone at the top of Lollo's speed, their faces to the enemy, his golden head at Lollo's ear. But at this moment noise and smoke seemed to burst out on every
                        side; the officer shouted to him to sound " Retire ! " and between trumpeting and
                        bumping about on his horse, he saw and heard no more of the incidents of his first battle.
                    Tony Johnson was always unlucky with horses, from the days of the
                        giddy-go-round onwards. On this day - of all days in the year - his own horse was on the sick
                        list, and he had to ride an inferior, ill-conditioned beast, and fell off that, at the very
                        moment when it was a matter of life and death to be able to ride away. The horse fell on him,
                        but struggled up again, and Tony managed to keep hold of it. It
                        was in trying to remount that he discovered, by helplessness and anguish, that one of his legs
                        was crushed and broken, and that no feat of which he was master would get him into the saddle.
                        Not able 1 The old proverb referred to is, " Every bullet
                            has its billet ;" that is, will find its goal.
                         even to stand alone, awkwardly, agonizingly, unable to mount
                        his restive horse, his life was yet so strong within him ! And on one side of him rolled the
                        dust and cloud-smoke of his advancing foes, and on the other, that which covered his retreating
                        friends.
                    He turned one piteous gaze after them, with a bitter twinge, not of reproach, but of loneliness;
                        and then, dragging himself up by the side of his horse, he turned the other way and drew out his
                        pistol, and waited for the end. Whether he waited seconds or minutes he never knew, before some
                        one gripped him by the arm.
                    " Jackanapes ! ' God bless
                                you ! It's my left leg. If you could get me on - "
                    It was like Tony's luck that his pistol went off at his horse's
                        tail, and made it plunge; but Jackanapes threw him across
                        the saddle.
                    " Hold on anyhow, and stick your spur in. I'll lead him. Keep your head
                            down; they're firing high."
                    And Jackanapes laid his head down - to Lollo's ear.
                    It was when they were fairly off that a sudden upspringing of the enemy in all directions had
                        made it necessary to change the gradual retirement of our force into as rapid a retreat as
                        possible. And when Jackanapes became aware of this, and
                        felt the lagging and swerving of Tony's horse, he began to wish
                        he had thrown his friend across his own saddle and left their lives to Lollo.
                    When Tony became aware of it, several things came into his head:
                        1, That the dangers of their ride for life were now more than doubled; 2, that if Jackanapes and Lollo were not
                        burdened with him they would undoubtedly escape; 3, that Jackanapes'  life was infinitely valuable, and
                        his - Tony's - was not; 4, that this, if he could seize it, was
                        the supremest of all the moments in which he had tried to assume the virtues which Jackanapes had by nature; and that if he could be courageous and
                        unselfish now -
                    He caught at his own reins and spoke very loud, -
                    "Jackanapes! It won't do. You and
                                Lollo must go on. Tell the fellows I gave you back to
                            them with all my heart. Jackanapes, if you love me,
                            leave me! "
                    There was a daffodil light over the evening sky in front of them, and it shone strangely on
                            Jackanapes' hair and face. He turned with an odd look
                        in his eyes that a vainer man than Tony Johnson might have taken
                        for brotherly pride. Then he shook his mop, and laughed at him.
                    "Leave you ? To save my skin? No, tony, not to save my soul! "
                

                
                    CHAPTER V.

                    
                        
                            MR. VALIANT
                                summoned. His Will. His last Words. Then said he, " I am going to my
                                Fathers. . . . My Sword I give to him that shall succeed me in my pilgrimage, and my
                                Courage and Skill to him that can get it." . . . And as he went down deeper, he said, "
                                Grave, where is thy Victory ? " So he passed over, and all the Trumpets sounded for him
                                on the other side. BUNYAN : Pilgrim's Progress.
                        
                    

                    COMING out of a hospital tent, at headquarters, the surgeon caromed against,
                        and rebounded from, another officer, - a sallow man, not young, with a face worn more by
                        ungentle experiences than by age, with  weary eyes that kept
                        their own counsel, iron-gray hair, and a mustache that was as if a raven had laid its wing
                        across his lips and sealed them.
                    " Well ?"
                    "Beg pardon, Major. Did n't see you. Oh,
                            compound fracture and bruises. But it's all right; he 'll pull through."
                    " Thank God."
                    It was probably an involuntary expression; for prayer and praise were not much in the Major's line, as a jerk of the surgeon's head would have betrayed to an
                        observer. He was a bright little man, with his feelings showing all over him, but with gallantry
                        and contempt of death enough for both sides of his profession; who took a cool head, a white
                        handkerchief, and a case of instruments, where other men went hotblooded with weapons, and who
                        was the biggest gos- sip, male or female, of the regiment. Not even the Major's taciturnity daunted him.
                    "Did n't think he'd as much pluck about him as he has. He 'll do all right if
                            he does n't fret himself into a fever about poor Jackanapes."
                    " Whom are you talking about ? " asked the Major hoarsely.
                    "Young Johnson. He - "
                    "What about Jackanapes ? "
                    "Don't you know ? Sad business. Rode back for Johnson, and brought him in; but, monstrous ill luck, hit as they rode. Left
                            lung-"
                    " Will he recover ? "
                    "No. Sad business. What a frame - what limbs - what health - and what good
                            looks! Finest young fellow- "
                    " Where is he ? "

                    

                    "In his own tent," said the surgeon sadly.
                    The Major wheeled and left him.
                    . . . . . . . . . . . 
                    "Can I do anything else for you?"
                    "Nothing, thank you. Except - Major ! I
                            wish I could get you to appreciate Johnson."
                    "This is not an easy moment, Jackanapes."
                    "Let me tell you, sir, - he never will, - that if he could have driven me
                            from him, he would be lying yonder at this moment, and I should be safe and
                        sound."
                    The Major laid his hand over his mouth, as if to keep back a wish
                        he would have been ashamed to utter.
                    "I've known old Tony from a child. He's a
                            fool on impulse, a good man and a gentleman in principle. And he acts on principle, which
                            it's not every-- Some water, please ! Thank you, sir. It's very hot, and yet one's feet get
                            uncommonly cold. Oh, thank you, thank you. He's no fire-eater, but he has a trained
                            conscience and a tender heart, and he 'll do his duty when a braver and more selfish man
                            might fail you. But he' wants encouragement; and when I 'm gone - "
                    " He shall have encouragement. You have my word for it. Can I do nothing else ?
                            "
                    "Yes, Major. A favor."
                    "Thank you, Jackanapes."
                    "Be Lollo's master, and love him as well
                            as you can. He's used to it."
                    " Would n't you rather Johnson had him ?
                        "
                    The blue eyes twinkled in spite of mortal pain.
                    "Tony rides on principle, Major. His legs are bolsters, and will be to the end of the
                            chapter. I could n't insult dear Lollo; but if you don't
                            care - "

                    

                    " While I live - which will be longer than I desire or deserve - Lollo shall want nothing but - you. I have too little tenderness
                            for - My dear boy, you're faint. Can you spare me for a moment ?"
                    "No, stay - Major ! "
                    "What ? What?"
                    "My head drifts so - if you would n't mind."
                    "Yes! Yes!"
                    " Say a prayer by me. Out loud, please; I am getting deaf."
                    " My dearest Jackanapes - my dear boy -
                            "
                    "One of the Church Prayers - Parade Service, 1 you know - "
                    " I see. But the fact is - God forgive me, Jackanapes ! - I'm a very different sort of fellow to some of you
                            youngsters. Look here, let me fetch -"
                    But Jackanapes' hand was in his, and it would not let
                        go.
                    There was a brief and bitter silence.
                    "'Pon my soul, I can only remember the little one at the end."
                    " Please," whispered Jackanapes.
                    Pressed by the conviction that what little he could do it was his duty to do, the Major, kneeling, bared his head, and spoke loudly, clearly, and very
                        reverently, -
                    " The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ - "
                    Jackanapes moved his left hand to his right one, which still held the Major's -
                    "The love of God - "
                    And with that - Jackanapes died.
                    1 Jackanapes wants one of the prayers he has been used to
                        hearing at the service read by the chaplain before the regiment.

                    
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI.

                    
                        
                            Und so ist der blaue Himmel grisser als jedes Gewolk darin,
                                    and dauerhafter dazu.1
                                JEAN PAUL RICHTER.
                        
                    

                    JACKANAPES' death was sad news for the
                            Goose Green, a sorrow just qualified by honorable pride in his
                        gallantry and devotion. Only the Cobbler dissented; but that
                        was his way. He said he saw nothing in it but foolhardiness and vainglory. They might both have
                        been killed, as easy as not; and then where would ye have been ? A man's life was a man's life,
                        and one life was as good as another. No one would catch him throwing his away. And, for that
                        matter, Mrs. Johnson could spare a child a great deal better
                        than Miss Jessamine.
                    But the parson preached Jackanapes' funeral sermon on the
                        text, " Whosoever will save his life shall lose it, and whosoever will lose his life for
                            my sake shall find it; " and all the village went and wept to hear him.
                    Nor did Miss Jessamine see her loss from the Cobbler's point of view. On the contrary, Mrs.
                            Johnson said she never to her dying day should forget how, when she went to
                        condole with her, the old lady came forward, with gentlewomanly self-control, and kissed her,
                        and thanked God that her dear nephew's effort had been blessed with success, and that this sad
                        war had made no gap in her friend's large and happy home circle.
                    "But she's a noble unselfish woman," sobbed Mrs.
                                1 " And so the blue sky is greater than any cloud
                                therein, and more enduring too."
                             Johnson, " and she taught
                                Jackanapes to be the same; and that's how it is
                            that my Tony has been spared to me. And it must be sheer
                            goodness in Miss Jessamine, for what can she know of a
                            mother's feelings ? And I'm sure most people seem to think that if you've a large family you
                            don't know one from another any more than they do, and that a lot of children are like a lot
                            of store apples, - if one 's taken it won't be missed."
                    Lollo, - the first Lollo, the
                            Gypsy's Lollo, - very
                        aged, draws Miss Jessamine's bath-chair slowly up and down
                        the Goose Green in the sunshine.
                    The Ex-postman walks beside him, which Lollo tolerates to the level of his shoulder. If the Postman advances any nearer to his head, Lollo
                        quickens his pace; and were the Postman to persist in the
                        injudicious attempt, there is, as Miss Jessamine says, no
                        knowing what might happen.
                    In the opinion of the Goose Green, Miss
                            Jessamine has borne her troubles " wonderfully." Indeed, today, some of the less
                        delicate and less intimate of those who see everything from the upper windows say (well, behind
                        her back) that "the old lady seems quite lively with her military beaux again."
                    The meaning of this is, that Captain Johnson is leaning over one
                        side of her chair, while by the other bends a brother officer who is staying with him, and who
                        has manifested an extraordinary interest in Lollo.
                    He bends lower and lower, and Miss Jessamine calls to the
                            Postman to request Lollo
                        to be kind enough to stop, while she is fumbling for something which always hangs by her side,
                        and has got entangled with her spectacles.
                    It is a twopenny trumpet, bought years ago in the  village fair;
                        and over it she and Captain Johnson tell, as best they can,
                        between them, the story of Jackanapes' ride across
                            Goose Green ; and how he won Lollo -
                        the Gypsy's Lollo - the racer
                            Lollo - dear Lollo -
                        faithful Lollo - Lollo, the
                        never vanquished - Lollo, the tender servant of his old
                        mistress. And Lollo's ears twitch at every mention of his
                        name.
                    Their hearer does not speak, but he never moves his eyes from the trumpet; and when the tale is
                        told, he lifts Miss Jessamine's hand and presses his heavy
                        black mustache in silence to her trembling fingers.
                    The sun, setting gently to his rest, embroiders the sombre foliage of the oak-tree with threads
                        of gold. The Gray Goose is sensible of an atmosphere of repose,
                        and puts up one leg for the night. The grass glows with a more vivid green, and, in answer to a
                        ringing call from Tony, his sisters, fluttering over the daisies
                        in pale-hued muslins, come out of their ever-open door, like pretty pigeons from a dovecote.
                    And if the good gossips' eyes do not deceive them, all the Miss Johnsons and both the officers go
                        wandering off into the lanes, where bryony wreaths still twine about the brambles.
                    . . . . . . . . . . .
                    A sorrowful story, and ending badly?
                    Nay, Jackanapes, for the end is not yet.
                    A life wasted that might have been useful ?
                    Men who have died for men, in all ages, forgive the thought!
                    There is a heritage of heroic example and noble obligation, not reckoned in the Wealth of
                        Nations, but essential to a nation's life; the contempt of which, in any people, may, not
                        slowly, mean even its commercial fall.

                    

                    Very sweet are the uses of prosperity, the harvests of peace and progress, the fostering sunshine
                        of health and happiness, and length of days in the land.
                    But there be things, - oh, sons of what has deserved the name of Great
                            Britain, forget it not! "the good of" which and "the use of" which are beyond
                        all calculation of worldly goods and earthly pses: things such as Love, and Honor, and the Soul
                        of Man, which cannot be bought with a price, and which do not die with death. And they who would
                        fain live happily ever after should not leave these things out of the lessons of their
                        lives.
                
            

            

            
                THE BROWNIES
                
                    A LITTLE girl sat sewing and crying on a garden seat. She had fair, floating hair,
                    which the breeze blew into her eyes; and between the cloud of hair, and the mist of tears, she could
                    not see her work very clearly. She neither tied up her locks, nor dried her eyes, however; for when
                    one is miserable, one may as well be completely so.
                " What is the matter ? " said the Doctor, who
                    was a friend of the Rector's, and came into the garden whenever he
                    pleased.
                The Doctor was a tall stout man, with hair as black as crows' feathers
                    on the top, and gray underneath, and a bushy beard. When young, he had been slim and handsome, with
                    wonderful eyes, which were wonderful still; but that was many years past. He had a great love for
                    children, and this one was a particular friend of his.
                " What is the matter ? " said he.
                "I 'm in a row," murmured the young lady through her veil; and the needle
                    went in damp, and came out with a jerk, which is apt to result in what ladies called
                    "puckering."
                "You are like London in a yellow fog," said the
                        Doctor, throwing himself on to the grass, " and
                        it is very depressing to my feelings. What is the row about, and how came you to get into it
                        ?"
                "We 're all in it," was the reply; and apparently  the fog was thickening, for the voice grew less and less distinct - "the boys and everybody. It's all about forgetting, and not putting away, and leaving
                        about, and borrowing, and breaking, and that sort of thing. I've had father's new pocket
                        handkerchiefs to hem, and I've been out climbing with the boys, and kept forgetting and
                        forgetting, and mother says I always forget; and I can't help it. I forget to tidy his
                        newspapers for him, and I forget to feed Puss, and I forgot these; besides, they're a great
                        bore, and mother gave them to Nurse to do, and this one was lost, and we found it this morning
                        tossing about in the toy-cupboard."
                " It looks as if it had been taking violent exercise," said the Doctor. " But what have the boys to do with it ?
                    "
                " Why, then there was a regular turn out of the toys," she explained, "and they're all in a regular mess. You know we always go on till the last minute,
                        and then things get crammed in anyhow. Mary and I did tidy them
                        once or twice; but the boys never put anything away, you know, so what 's the good ?
                    "
                "What, indeed ! " said the Doctor. "And so you have complained of them ? "
                "Oh, no !" answered she. "We don't get them into rows,
                        unless they are very provoking; but some of the things were theirs, so everybody was sent for,
                        and I was sent out to finish this, and they are all tidying. I don't know when it will be done,
                        for I have all this side to hem; and the soldier's box is broken, and Noah is lost out of the
                            Noah's Ark, and so is one of the elephants and a guinea-pig, and so is
                        the rocking-horse's nose; and nobody knows what has become of
                            Rutlandshire and the Wash, but they're so  small, I don't wonder; only North
                            America and Europe are gone, too."
                The Doctor started up in affected horror. "
                            Europe gone, did you say? Bless me! what will become of us!
                    "
                " Don't ! " said the young lady, kicking petulantly with her dangling feet,
                    and trying not to laugh. "You know I mean the puzzles; and if they were yours, you
                        would n't like it."
                " I don't half like it as it is," said the Doctor. "I am seriously alarmed. An earthquake is one thing: you have a good
                    shaking, and settle down again. But Europe gone - lost - Why, here comes
                        Deordie, I declare, looking much more cheerful than we do;
                    let us humbly hope that Europe has been found. At present I feel like
                        Aladdin when his palace had been transported by the magician; I don't know
                    where I am."
                "You're here, Doctor; aren't you?" asked
                    the slow, curly-wigged brother, squatting himself on the grass.
                "Is Europe found ? " said the Doctor tragically.
                "Yes," laughed Deordie. "I found it."
                "You will be a great man," said the Doctor.
                        "And--it is only common charity to ask--how about North
                            America ? "
                " Found too," said Deordie. "But the Wash is completely lost."
                "And my six shirts in it ! " said the Doctor.
                        " I sent them last Saturday as ever was. What a world we live in ! Any more
                        news? Poor Tiny here has been crying her eyes out."
                "I 'm so sorry, Tiny," said the brother.
                        " But don't bother about it. It's all square now, and we're going to have a
                        new shelf put up."

                

                "Have you found everything? " asked Tiny.
                " Well, not the Wash, you know. And the elephant and the
                        guinea-pig are gone for good; so the other elephant and the other guinea-pig must walk together
                        as a pair now. Noah was among the soldiers, and we have put the cavalry
                        into a night-light box. Europe and North America
                        were behind the bookcase; and, would you believe it? the rocking- horse's nose has turned up in
                        the nursery oven."
                "I can't believe it," said the Doctor. " The rocking-horse's nose could n't turn up, it was the purest Grecian, modelled from
                        the Elgin marbles. Perhaps it was the heat that did it, though. How-ever, you seem to have got
                        through your troubles very well, Master Deordie. I wish poor
                            Tiny were at the end of her task."
                "So do I," said Deordie ruefully. "But I tell you what I've been thinking, Doctor.
                        Nurse is always nagging at us, and we're always in rows of one sort or another, for doing this,
                        and not doing that, and leaving our things about. But, you know, it's a horrid shame; for there
                        are plenty of servants, and I don't see why we should be always bothering to do little things,
                        and " - 
                " Oh! cone to the point, please," said the Doctor; "you do go round the square so, in telling your stories,
                            Deordie. What have you been thinking of ?"
                " Well," said Deordie, who was as
                    good-tempered as he was slow, " the other day Nurse shut me up in the back
                        nursery for borrowing her scissors and losing them; but I'd got ' Grimm'' inside
                        one of my knickerbockers, so when she locked the door, I sat down to read. And I read the story
                        of the Shoe-  maker and the little Elves who came and did his
                        work for him before he got up; and I thought it would be so jolly if we had some little Elves to
                        do things instead of us."
                " That's what Tommy Trout said," observed the
                        Doctor.
                " Who's Tommy Trout ?" asked Deordie.
                "Don't you know, Deordie?" said Tiny. "It's the good boy who pulled the cat out of the
                        what 's- his-name. 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        'Who pulled her out ?
                                        Little Tommy Trout.'
                                    
                                
                            
                         Is it the same Tommy Trout, Doctor? I never heard anything else about him except his pulling the cat out;
                        and I can't think how he did that."
                "Let down the bucket for her, of course," said the Doctor. "But listen to me. If you will get that handkerchief done,
                        and take it to your mother with a kiss, and not keep me waiting, I 'll have you all to tea, and
                        tell you the story of Tommy Trout."
                " This very night ? " shouted Deordie.
                "This very night."
                " Every one of us? " inquired the young gentleman with rapturous
                    incredulity.
                " Every one of you. - Now, Tiny, how about that work
                        ? "
                " It's just done," said Tiny. -" Oh! Deordie climb up behind, and hold back my
                        hair, there's a darling, while I fasten off. Oh ! Deor,
                        you're pulling my hair out. Don't."
                " I want to make a pig-tail," said Deor.
                "You can't," said Tiny, with feminine
                    contempt. "You can't plait. What's the good of asking boys to do anything? There!
                        it's done at last.  Now go and ask mother if we may go. - Will
                        you let me come, Doctor," she inquired, "if I do as you said ? "
                "To be sure I will," he answered. "Let me look at you. Your
                        eyes are swollen with crying. How can you be such a silly little goose ? "
                "Did you never cry ?" asked Tiny.
                " When I was your age ? Well, perhaps so."
                "You 've never cried since, surely," said Tiny.
                The Doctor absolutely blushed.
                " What do you think ? " said he.
                "Oh, of course not," she answered. "You've nothing to cry
                        about. You're grown up, and you live all alone in a beautiful house, and you do as you like, and
                        never get into rows, or have anybody but yourself to think about; and no nasty pocket
                        handkerchiefs to hem."
                "Very nice; eh, Deordie ? " said the
                        Doctor.
                "Awfully jolly," said Deordie.
                "Nothing else to wish for, eh?"
                "I should keep harriers, 1 and not a poodle, if I were a man," said Deordie; "but I suppose you could, if you wanted to."
                " Nothing to cry about, at any rate ? "
                "I should think not! " said Deordie. -
                        " There 's mother, though; let's go and ask her about the tea;" and
                    off they ran.
                The Doctor stretched his six feet of length upon the sward, dropped
                    his gray head upon a little heap of newly mown grass, and looked up into the sky.
                "Awfully jolly - no nasty pocket handkerchiefs to hem," said he, laughing to
                    himself. " Nothing else to wish for; nothing to cry about."
                1 Harriers are small hounds used in hunting hares.

                

                Nevertheless, he lay still, staring at the sky, till the smile died away, and tears came into his
                    eyes. Fortunately, no one was there to see.
                What could this "awfully jolly Doctor " be think- ing of to make him
                    cry? He was thinking of a gravestone in the churchyard close by, and of a story connected with, this
                    gravestone which was known to everybody in the place who was old enough to remem- ber it. This story
                    has nothing to do with the present story, so it ought not to be told.
                And yet it has to do with the Doctor, and is very short, so it shall
                    be put in, after all.



                
                            
                                THE STORY OF A GRAVESTONE.
                            One early spring morning about twenty years before, a man going to his work at sunrise
                                through the churchyard stopped by a flat stone which he had lately helped to lay down.
                                The day before, a name had been cut on it, which he stayed to read; and below the name
                                some one had scrawled a few words in pencil, which he read also - Pitifully
                                    behold the sorrows of our hearts. On the stone lay a pencil, and a few feet
                                from it lay the Doctor, face downwards, as he had lain
                                all night, with the hoar frost on his black hair.
                            Ah ! these gravestones (they were ugly things in those days; not the light, hopeful,
                                pretty crosses we set up now), how they seem remorselessly to imprison and keep our dear
                                dead friends away from us ! And yet they do not lie with a feather's weight upon the
                                souls that are gone, while God only knows how heavily they press
                                upon the souls that are left behind. Did the spirit whose body was with the dead stand
                                that morning by the body whose spirit was with the dead,  and pity him? Let us only talk about what we know.
                            After this it was said that the Doctor had got a fever,
                                and was dying, but he got better of it; and then that he was out of his mind, but he got
                                better of that, and came out looking much as usual, except that his hair never seemed
                                quite so black again, as if a little of that night's hoar frost still remained. And no
                                further misfortune happened to him that I ever heard of ; and as time went on he grew a
                                beard, and got stout, and kept a German poodle, and gave tea-parties to other people's
                                children. As to the gravestone story, whatever it was to him at the end of twenty years,
                                it was a great convenience to his friends; for when he said anything they did n't agree
                                with, or did anything they could n't understand, or did n't say or do what was expected
                                of him, what could be easier or more conclusive than to shake one's head and say,-
                            "The fact is, our Doctor has been a little odd,
                                    ever since- ! "
                       


                
                            THE DOCTOR'S
                                TEA-PARTY.
                            There is one great advantage attendant upon invitations to tea with a doctor. No
                                objections can be raised on the score of health. It is obvious that it must be fine
                                enough to go out when the Doctor asks you, and that his
                                tea-cakes may be eaten with perfect impunity.
                            Those tea-cakes were always good; to-night they were utterly delicious; there was a
                                perfect abandon of currants, and the amount of citron peel was enervating to behold.
                                Then the housekeeper waited in awful splendor, and yet the Doctor's authority over her seemed as absolute as if he were an Eastern
                                despot. Deordie must be excused for believing in the
                                     charms of living alone. It certainly has its
                                advantages. The limited sphere of duty conduces to discipline in the household, demand
                                does not exceed supply in the article of waiting, and there is not that general
                                scrimmage of conflicting interests which besets a large family in the most favored
                                circumstances. The housekeeper waits in black silk, and looks as if she had no meaner
                                occupation than to sit in a rocking- chair, and dream of damson cheese.
                            Rustling, hospitable, and subservient, this one, retired at last, and -
                            "Now," said the Doctor, " for the veranda; and to look at the moon."
                            The company adjourned with a rush, the rear being brought up by the poodle, who seemed
                                quite used to the proceedings ; and there under the veranda, framed with passion flowers
                                and geraniums, the Doctor had gathered mats, rugs,
                                cushions, and armchairs, for the party; while far up in the sky a yellow-faced harvest
                                moon looked down in awful benignity.
                            " Now," said the Doctor, " take your seats. Ladies first, and gentlemen afterwards. Mary and Tiny race for the
                                    American rocking-chair. Well done! Of course it will hold both. Now, boys, shake
                                    down. No one is to sit on the stone, or put their feet on the grass; and when you're
                                    ready, I'll begin."
                            "We're ready," said the girls.
                            The boys shook down in a few minutes more, and the Doctor began the story of - 

                                        THE BROWNIES.

                                        " Bairns are a burden," said the Tailor to himself as he sat at work. He lived in
                                            a village on some of the glorious moors of the north of
                                                England; and  by
                                            bairns he meant children, as every Northman knows.
                                        " Bairns are a burden," and he sighed.
                                        "Bairns are a blessing," said the old lady in the
                                            window. " It is the family motto. The
                                                    Trouts have had large families and good luck
                                                for generations; that is, till your grandfather's time. He had one only
                                                son. I married him. He was a good husband, but he had been a spoilt
                                                child. He had always been used to be waited upon, and he could n't fash
                                                    1 to look after the farm
                                                when it was his own. We had six children. They are all dead but you, who
                                                were the youngest. You were bound to a tailor. When the farm came into
                                                your hands, your wife died, and you have never looked up since. The land
                                                is sold now, but not the house. No ! no ! you're right enough there; but
                                                you 've had your troubles, son Thomas,
                                                and the lads are idle !"
                                        It was the Tailor's mother who spoke. She
                                            was a very old woman, and helpless. She was not quite so bright in her
                                            intellect as she had been, and got muddled over things that had lately
                                            happened; but she had a clear memory for what was long past, and was very
                                            pertinacious in her opinions. She knew the private history of almost every
                                            family in the place, and who of the Trouts were buried
                                            under which old stones in the churchyard; and had more tales of ghosts,
                                            doubles, warnings, fairies, witches, hobgoblins, and such like, than even
                                            her grandchildren had ever come to the end of. Her hands trembled with age,
                                            and she regretted this for nothing more than for the danger it brought her
                                            into of spilling the salt.2 She
                                            was past housework, but all day she sat knitting hearth-rugs 1 Fash, trouble.
                                            2 Spilling the salt is supposed to
                                                bring ill luck.
                                             out of the bits and scraps of cloth that
                                            were shred in the tailoring. How far she believed in the wonderful tales she
                                            told, and the odd little charms she practised, no one exactly knew; but the
                                            older she grew, the stranger were the things she remembered, and the more
                                            testy she was if any one doubted their truth.
                                        " Bairns are a blessing ! " said she. "It is the family motto."
                                        " Are they ? " said the Tailor emphatically.
                                        He had a high respect for his mother, and did not like to contradict her, but
                                            he held his own opinion, based upon personal experience; and not being a
                                            metaphysician, did not understand that it is safer to found opinions on
                                            principles than on experience, since experience may alter, but principles
                                            cannot.
                                        " Look at Tommy,"
                                            he broke out suddenly. "That boy does nothing but whittle
                                                sticks from morning till night. I have almost to lug him out of bed o'
                                                mornings. If I send him an errand, he loiters; I'd better have gone
                                                myself. If I set him to do anything, I have to tell him everything; I
                                                could sooner do it myself. And if he does work, it's done so
                                                unwillingly, with such a poor grace; better, far better, to do it
                                                myself. What housework do the boys ever do but looking after the baby ?
                                                And this afternoon she was asleep in the cradle, and off they went, and
                                                when she awoke, I must leave my work to take her. I gave her her supper, and put her to bed. And what
                                                with what they want and I have to get, and what they take out to play
                                                with and lose, and what they bring in to play with and leave about,
                                                bairns give some trouble, Mother, and
                                                I've not an easy life of it. The pay is poor enough when one can get the
                                                work, and the work is hard enough moenehas a clear day to do it in; but
                                                housekeep-  ing and bairn-minding don't
                                                leave a man much time for, his trade. No! no! Ma'am, the luck of the
                                                    Trouts is gone, and ' Bairns are a burden ' is
                                                the motto now. Though they are one's own," he muttered to
                                            himself, "and not bad ones, and I did hope once would
                                                have been a blessing."
                                        "There 's Johnnie," murmured the old lady dreamily. "He has a face like an apple."
                                        "And is about as useful," said the Tailor. "He might have been
                                                different, but his brother leads him by the nose."
                                        His brother led him in as the Tailor spoke,
                                            not literally by his snub, though, but by the hand. They were a handsome
                                            pair, this lazy couple. Johnnie
                                            especially had the largest and roundest of foreheads, the reddest of cheeks,
                                            the brightest of eyes, the quaintest and most twitchy of chins, and looked
                                            altogether like a gutta-percha cherub in a chronic state of longitudinal
                                                squeeze.1 They were locked
                                            together by two grubby paws, and had each an armful of moss, which they
                                            deposited on the floor as they came in.
                                        "I've swept this floor once to-day," said the
                                            father, " and I 'm not going to do it again. Put that
                                                rubbish outside."
                                        " Move it, Johnnie !
                                                " said his brother, seating himself on a stool, and taking out
                                            his knife and a piece of wood, at which he cut and sliced; while the apple-
                                            cheeked Johnnie stumbled and stamped over
                                            the moss, and scraped it out on to the doorstep, leaving long trails of
                                            earth behind him, and then sat down also.
                                        " And those chips the same," added the Tailor; " I will not clear up
                                                the litter you lads make."
                                        "Pick 'em up, Johnnie," said Thomas
                                                Trout, junior, 1
                                                Longitudinal squeeze, stretched lengthwise.
                                             with an exasperated sigh; and the apple
                                            tumbled up, rolled after the flying chips, and tumbled down again.
                                        " Is there any supper, Father? " asked Tommy.
                                        "No, there is not, Sir, unless you know how to get
                                                it," said the Tailor; and
                                            taking his pipe, he went out of the house.
                                        "Is there really nothing to eat, Granny ? " asked the boy.
                                        " No, my bairn, only some bread for breakfast
                                                tomorrow."
                                        "What makes Father so cross, Granny?"
                                        " He's wearied, and you don't help him, my
                                            dear."
                                        "What could I do, Grandmother? "
                                        " Many little things, if you tried," said the old
                                            lady. "He spent half an hour to-day, while you were on
                                                the moor, getting turf for the fire, and you could have got it just as
                                                well, and he been at his work."
                                        " He never told me," said Tommy.
                                        "You might help me a bit just now, if you would, my
                                                laddie," said the old lady coaxingly; " these
                                                bits of cloth want tearing into lengths, and if you get 'em ready, I can
                                                go on knitting. There'll be some food when this mat is done and
                                                sold."
                                        "I 'll try," said Tommy, lounging up with desperate resignation. " Hold my knife, Johnnie.
                                                Father's been cross, and everything has been miserable, ever since the
                                                farm was sold. I wish I were a big man, and could make a fortune. - Will
                                                that do, Granny ? "
                                        The old lady put down her knitting and looked. "My dear,
                                                that's too short. Bless me! I gave the lad a piece to measure
                                                by."
                                        " I thought it was the same length. Oh, dear! I am so tired
                                                ;" and he propped himself against the old lady's chair.

                                        

                                        " My dear ! don't lean so ! you'll tipple me over !
                                                " she shrieked.
                                        " I beg your pardon, Grandmother. Will that do
                                            ?"
                                        "It is that much too long."
                                        "Tear that bit off. Now it's all right."
                                        " But, my dear, that wastes it. Now that bit is of no use.
                                                There goes my knitting, you awkward lad ! "
                                        " Johnnie, pick it up !
                                                - Oh, Grandmother, I am so hungry !
                                                "
                                        The boy's eyes filled with tears, and the old lady was melted in an
                                            instant.
                                        " What can I do for you, my poor bairns ? " said
                                            she. "There, never mind the scraps, Tommy."
                                        " Tell us a tale, Granny. If you told us a new one, I should n't keep thinking
                                                of that bread in the cupboard. -Come, Johnnie, and sit against me. Now then ! "
                                        " I doubt if there's one of my old-world cracks 1 I have n't told you,"
                                            said the old lady, " unless it's a queer ghost story was
                                                told me years ago of that house in the hollow with the blocked-up
                                                windows."
                                        " Oh ! not ghosts ! "
                                            Tommy broke in ; " we 've
                                                had so many. I know it was a rattling, or a scratching, or a knocking,
                                                or a figure in white; and if it turns out a tombstone or a white
                                                petticoat, I hate it."
                                        " It was nothing of the sort as a tombstone," said
                                            the old lady with dignity. " It's a good half-mile from
                                                the churchyard. And as to white petticoats, there was n't a female in
                                                the house; he would n't have one; and his victuals came in by the pantry
                                                window. But never mind! Though it's as true as a sermon."
                                        Johnnie lifted his head from his brother's
                                            knee.
                                        1 Old-world cracks, old-fashioned
                                            tales.

                                        

                                        " Let Granny tell what
                                                she likes, Tommy. It's a new ghost, and
                                                I should like to know who he was, and why his victuals came in by the
                                                window."
                                        " I don't like a story about victuals," sulked
                                                Tommy. " It makes me
                                                think of the bread. Oh, Granny dear !
                                                do tell us a fairy story. You never will tell us about the Fairies, and
                                                I know you know."
                                        " Hush ! hush ! " said the old lady. " There's Miss Surbiton's Love Letter,
                                                and her Dreadful End."
                                        "I know Miss Surbiton, Granny. I think she was a goose. Why won't
                                                you tell us about the Fairies ? "
                                        " Hush ! hush ! my dear. There's the Clerk and the
                                                Corpse-candles."
                                        " I know the Corpse-candles, Granny. Besides, they make Johnnie dream, and he wakes me to keep him company. Why won't you tell us about the Fairies ? "
                                        " My dear, they don't like it," said the old
                                            lady.
                                        " Oh, Granny dear, why don't they ? Do tell! I should n't
                                                think of the bread a bit, if you told us about the Fairies. I know
                                                nothing about them."
                                        "He lived in this house long enough," said the old
                                            lady. " But it's not lucky to name him."
                                        "Oh, Granny, we are so
                                                hungry and miserable, what can it matter ? "
                                        " Well, that's true enough," she sighed. " Trouts' luck is gone; it went with
                                                the Brownie, I believe."
                                        " Was that he, Granny ?
                                                "
                                        " Yes, my dear, he lived with the
                                                    Trouts for several generations."
                                        " What was he like, Granny ?"
                                        "Like a little man, they say, my dear."
                                        " What did he do ? "
                                        " He came in before the family were up, and swept  up the hearth, and lighted the fire,
                                                and set out the breakfast, and tidied the room, and did all sorts of
                                                housework. But he never would be seen, and was off before they could
                                                catch him. But they could hear him laughing and playing about the house
                                                sometimes."
                                        " What a darling ! Did they give him any wages, Granny ? "
                                        " No ! my dear. He did it for love. They set a pancheon
                                                    1 of clear water for him
                                                overnight, and now and then a bowl of bread and milk, or cream. He liked
                                                that, for he was very dainty. Sometimes he left a bit of money in the
                                                water. Sometimes he weeded the garden, or threshed the corn. He saved
                                                endless trouble, both to men and maids."
                                        "Oh, Granny ! why did he
                                                go?"
                                        " The maids caught sight of him one night, my dear, and
                                                his coat was so ragged that they got a new suit and a linen shirt for
                                                him, and laid them by the bread and milk bowl. But when Brownie saw the
                                                things, he put them on, and dancing round the kitchen, sang, - 
                                                    
                                                        
                                                            
                                                            'What have we here ? Hemten hamten !
                                                            Here will I never more tread nor stampen,'
                                                            
                                                        
                                                    
                                                 and so danced through the door, and never came back
                                                again."
                                        "Oh, Grandmother ! But
                                                why not ? Did n't he like the new clothes ? "
                                        "The Old Owl knows, my
                                                dear; I don't."
                                        " Who's the Old Owl,
                                                    Granny "
                                        "I don't exactly know, my dear. It's what my mother used
                                                to say when we asked anything that puzzle her. It was said that the
                                                    Old Owl was Nanny 1 Pancheon, pannikin, little
                                                        pan.
                                                     Besom1 (a witch, my dear !), who took the shape
                                                of a bird, but could n't change her voice, and that that's why the owl
                                                sits silent all day for fear she should betray herself by speaking, and
                                                has no singing voice like other birds. Many people used to go and
                                                consult the Old Owl at moonrise, in my
                                                young days."
                                        " Did you ever go, Granny
                                                ?"
                                        "Once, very nearly, my dear."
                                        " Oh ! tell us, Granny
                                                dear. - There are no Corpse- candles, Johnnie; it's only moonlight," he added
                                            consolingly, as Johnnie crept closer to
                                            his knee, and pricked his little red ears.
                                        "It was when your grandfather was courting me, my
                                                dears," said the old lady, " and I could n't
                                                quite make up my mind. So I went to my mother, and said, ' He's this on
                                                the one side, but then he's that on the other, and so on. Shall I say
                                                yes or no ?' And my mother said, 'The Old
                                                    Owl knows ;' for she was fairly puzzled. So says I, 'I
                                                'll go and ask her tonight, as sure as the moon rises.'
                                        " So at moonrise I went, and there in the white light by
                                                the gate stood your grandfather. ' What are you doing here at this time
                                                o' night ?' says I. 'Watching your window,' says he. ' What are you
                                                doing here at this time o' night?' 'The Old
                                                    Owl knows,' said I, and burst out crying."
                                        " What for ?" said Johnnie.
                                        " I can't rightly tell you, my dear," said the old
                                            lady, "but it gave me such a turn to see him. And without
                                                more ado your grandfather kissed me. ' How dare you?' said I. 'What do
                                                you mean?' 'The Old Owl knows,' said he.
                                                So we never went."
                                        1 A besom is a heavy broom made of twigs -
                                            just the sort which witches were supposed to ride.

                                        

                                        "How stupid ! " said Tommy.
                                        " Tell us more about Brownie, please," said
                                                Johnnie. " Did he
                                                ever live with anybody else ? "
                                        "There are plenty of Brownies," said the old lady,
                                                "or used to be in my mother's young days. Some houses
                                                had several."
                                        " Oh! I wish ours would come back ! " cried
                                            both the boys in chorus. " He 'd -
                                        "Tidy the room," said Johnnie.
                                        "Fetch the turf," said Tommy.
                                        " Pick up the chips," said Johnnie.
                                        " Sort your scraps," said Tommy.
                                        " And do everything. Oh ! I wish he had n't gone
                                                away."
                                        " What 's that ? " said the Tailor, coming in at this moment.
                                        " It's the Brownie, Father," said Tommy. " We are so sorry he
                                                went, and do so wish we had one."
                                        " What nonsense have you been telling them, Mother ?
                                                " asked the Tailor.
                                        "Heighty teighty," said the old lady, bristling.
                                                "Nonsense, indeed! As good men as you, Son Thomas, would as soon have jumped off the
                                                crags as spoken lightly of them, in my mother's young
                                                days."
                                        " Well, well," said the Tailor, "I beg their pardon. They never
                                                did aught for me, whatever they did for my forbears; 1 but they 're as welcome to the old place
                                                as ever, if they choose to come. There's plenty to do."
                                        "Would you mind our setting a pan of water, Father?"
                                            asked Tommy very gently. "There 's no bread and milk."
                                        1 Forbears, ancestors.

                                        

                                        "You may set what you like, my lad," said the
                                                Tailor; " and I
                                                wish there were bread and milk for your sakes, Bairns. You should have
                                                it, had I got it. But go to bed now."
                                        They lugged out a pancheon, and filled it with more dexterity than usual, and
                                            then went off to bed, leaving the knife in one corner, the wood in another,
                                            and a few splashes of water in their track.
                                        There was more room than comfort in the ruined old farmhouse, and the two
                                            boys slept on a bed of cut heather, in what had been the old malt loft.
                                                Johnnie was soon in the land of
                                            dreams, growing rosier and rosier as he slept, a tumbled apple among the
                                            gray heather. But not so lazy Tommy. The
                                            idea of a domesticated Brownie had taken full possession of his mind; and
                                            whither Brownie had gone, where he might be found, and what would induce him
                                            to return, were mysteries he longed to solve. "There's an
                                                owl living in the old shed by the mere,"
                                            1 he thought. "It may be the Old Owl herself, and she
                                                knows, Granny says. When father's gone
                                                to bed, and the moon rises, I 'll go." Meanwhile he lay down.
                                        . . . . . . . . . . 
                                        The moon rose like gold, and went up into the heavens like silver, flooding
                                            the moors with a pale ghostly light, taking the color out of the heather,
                                            and painting black shadows under the stone walls. Tommy opened his eyes, and ran to the window. "The moon has risen," said he, and crept softly down
                                            the ladder, through the kitchen, where was the pan of water, but no Brownie,
                                            and so out on to the moor. The air was fresh, not to say chilly; but it
                                                1 Mere, lake.
                                             was a glorious night, though everything
                                            but the wind and Tommy seemed asleep. The
                                            stones, the walls, the gleaming lanes, were so intensely still, the church
                                            tower in the valley seemed awake and watching, but silent; the houses in the
                                            village round it had all their eyes shut, that is, their window blinds down;
                                            and it seemed to Tommy as if the very moors
                                            had drawn white sheets over them, and lay sleeping also.
                                        "Hoot ! hoot!" said a voice from the fir plantation
                                            behind him. Somebody else was awake, then. "It's the
                                                    Old Owl," said Tommy; and there she came, swinging heavily
                                            across the moor with a flapping, stately flight, and sailed into the shed by
                                            the mere. The old lady moved faster than she seemed to do, and though
                                                Tommy ran hard she was in the shed some
                                            time before him. When he got in, no bird was to be seen, but he heard a
                                            crunching sound from above, and looking up, there sat the Old Owl, pecking and tearing and munching at some
                                            shapeless black object, and blinking at him - Tommy - with yellow eyes.
                                        "Oh, dear ! " said Tommy, for he did n't much like it.
                                        The Old Owl dropped the black mass on to the
                                            floor; and Tommy did not care somehow to
                                            examine it.
                                        " Come up ! come up! " said she hoarsely.
                                        She could speak, then ! Beyond all doubt it was the Old
                                                Owl, and none other. Tommy
                                            shuddered.
                                        "Come up here! come up here!" said the Old Owl.
                                        The Old Owl sat on a beam that ran across the
                                            shed. Tommy had often climbed up for fun;
                                            and he climbed up now, and sat face to face with her,  and thought her eyes looked as if they were made
                                            of flame.
                                        " Kiss my fluffy face," said the Owl.
                                        Her eyes were going round like flaming catherine wheels,1 but there are certain requests which one has
                                            not the option of refusing Tommy crept
                                            nearer, and put his lips to the round face out of which the eyes shone. Oh!
                                            it was so downy and warm, so soft, so indescribably soft. Tommy's lips sank into it, and could n't get to
                                            the bottom. It was unfathomable feathers and fluffiness.
                                        "Now, what do you want ? " said the Owl.
                                        "Please," said Tommy, who felt rather reassured, "can you
                                                tell me where to find the Brownies, and how to get one to come and live
                                                with us?"
                                        " Oohoo ! " said the Owl, " that's it, is it ? I know of three
                                                Brownies."
                                        " Hurrah ! " said Tommy. "Where do they live ? "
                                        " In your house," said the Owl.
                                        Tommy was aghast.
                                        " In our house ! " he exclaimed. "
                                                Whereabouts ? Let me rummage them out. Why do they do nothing ?
                                            "
                                        "One of them is too young," said the Owl.
                                        "But why don't the others work? " asked Tommy.
                                        "They are idle, they are idle," said the Old Owl, and she gave herself such a shake as she
                                            said it that the fluff went flying through the shed, and Tommy nearly tumbled off the beam in his
                                            fright.
                                        " Then we don't want them," said he. " What is the use of having Brownies if they do nothing to
                                                help us? "
                                        1 A catherine wheel is very much like our
                                            American "pin. wheel."

                                        

                                        " Perhaps they don't know how, as no one has told
                                                them," said the Owl.
                                        " I wish you would tell me where to find them," said
                                                Tommy. " I could tell
                                                them."
                                        " Could you ? " said the Owl. "Oohoo ! oohoo ! " and Tommy could n't tell whether she were hooting or
                                            laughing.
                                        " Of course I could," he said. "They might be up and sweep the house, and light the fire, and spread
                                                the table, and that sort of thing, before Father came down. Besides,
                                                they could see what was wanted. The Brownies did all
                                                that in Granny's mother's young days.
                                                And then they could tidy the room, and fetch the turf, and pick up my
                                                chips, and sort Granny's scraps. Oh!
                                                there's lots to do."
                                        " So there is," said the Owl. "Oohoo ! Well, I can tell you where to
                                                find one of the Brownies; and if you find him, he will tell you where
                                                his brother is. But all this depends upon whether you feel equal to
                                                undertaking it, and whether you will follow my directions."
                                        " I am quite ready to go," said Tommy, " and I will do as you
                                                shall tell me. I feel sure I could persuade them; if they only knew how
                                                every one would love them if they made themselves useful! "
                                        "Oohoo! oohoo! " said the Owl. "Now pay attention. You must go to the
                                                div north side of the mere when the moon is shining - (' I know. Brownies like water,' muttered Tommy) - and turn yourself round
                                                three times, saying this charm: - 
                                                    
                                                        
                                                            
                                                            'Twist me, and turn me, and show me the Elf -
                                                            I looked in the water, and saw - '
                                                            
                                                        
                                                    
                                                 When you have got so far, look into the water, and at
                                                the same moment you will see the Brownie, and think  of a word that will fill up the couplet, and
                                                rhyme with the first line. If either you do not see the Brownie, or fail
                                                to think of the word, it will be of no use."
                                        " Is the Brownie a merman," said Tommy, wriggling himself along the beam, " that he lives under water ?"
                                        " That depends on whether he has a fish's tail," said
                                            the Owl, " and this you can
                                                discover for yourself."
                                        "Well, the moon is shining, so I shall go," said
                                                Tommy. " Good-by, and
                                                thank you, Ma'am;" and he jumped down and went, saying to himself
                                            as he ran, " I believe he is a merman all the same, or
                                                else how could he live in the mere ? I know more about Brownies than
                                                    Granny does, and I shall tell her
                                                so; " for Tommy was somewhat
                                            opinionated, like other young people.
                                        The moon shone very brightly on the centre of the mere. Tommy knew the place well, for there was a fine echo there.
                                            Round the edge grew rushes and water plants, which cast a border of shadow.
                                                Tommy went to the north side, and
                                            turning himself three times, as the Old Owl
                                            had told him, he repeated the charm -
                                        
                                            
                                                
                                                    
                                                        " Twist me, and turn me, and show me the Elf -
                                                        I looked in the water and saw - "
                                                    
                                                
                                            
                                        


                                        Now for it ! He looked in, and saw - the reflection of his own face.
                                        " Why, there's no one but myself ! " said Tommy. " And what can the word
                                                be ? I must have done it wrong."
                                        "Wrong! " said the Echo.
                                        Tommy was almost surprised to find the
                                                Echo awake at this time of night.
                                        " Hold your tongue ! " said he. "
                                                Matters are provoking enough of themselves. Belf! Celf! Delf  Felf! Gelf ! Helf ! Jelf ! What rubbish!
                                                There can't be a word to fit it. And then to look for a Brownie, and see
                                                nothing but myself! "
                                        "Myself," said the Echo.
                                        " Will you be quiet?" said Tommy. "If you would tell one the word
                                                there would be some sense in your interference; but to roar 'Myself!' at
                                                one, which neither rhymes nor runs - it does rhyme, though, as it
                                                happens," he added; "and how very odd! it runs too - 
                                                    
                                                        
                                                            
                                                            'Twist me, and turn me, and show me the Elf ;
                                                            I looked in the water, and saw myself,' - 
                                                            
                                                        
                                                    
                                                 which I certainly did. What can it mean ? The Old Owl knows, as Granny would say ; so I shall go back and ask
                                                her."
                                        "Ask her ! " said the Echo.
                                        "Did n't I say I should ?" said Tommy. "How exasperating you
                                                are! It is very strange. Myself certainly does rhyme,
                                                and I wonder I did not think of it long ago."
                                        " Go," said the Echo.
                                        "Will you mind your own business, and go to sleep ?"
                                            said Tommy. "I am going;
                                                I said I should."
                                        And back he went. There sat the Old Owl as
                                            before.
                                        "Oohoo!" said she, as Tommy climbed up. " What did you see in the
                                                mere? "
                                        "I saw nothing but myself," said Tommy indignantly.
                                        " And what did you expect to see?" asked the Owl.
                                        " I expected to see a Brownie," said Tommy; "you told me
                                            so."

                                        

                                        " And what are Brownies like, pray ? " inquired the
                                                Owl.
                                        " The one Granny knew was
                                                a useful little fellow, something like a little man," said
                                                Tommy.
                                        "Ah!" said the Owl,
                                                "but you know at present this one is an idle little
                                                fellow, something like a little man. Oohoo! oohoo! Are you quite sure
                                                you did n't see him? "
                                        "Quite," answered Tommy sharply. "I saw no one but
                                                myself."
                                        "Hoot ! toot ! How touchy we are ! And who are you, pray ?
                                                "
                                        "I 'm not a Brownie," said Tommy.
                                        "Don't be too sure," said the Owl. "Did you find out the word ?
                                            "
                                        " No," said Tommy.
                                                " I could find no word with any meaning that would
                                                rhyme but ' myself.'"
                                        "Well, that runs and rhymes," said the Owl. "What do you want? Where's
                                                your brother now ? "
                                        "In bed in the malt loft," said Tommy.
                                        "Then now all your questions are answered," said the
                                                Owl, " and you know what
                                                wants doing, so go and do it. Good-night, or rather good-morning, for it
                                                is long past midnight; " and the old lady began to shake her
                                            feathers for a start.
                                        "Don't go yet, please," said Tommy humbly. "I don't understand it. You
                                                know I 'm not a Brownie, am I?"
                                        " Yes, you are," said the Owl, " and a very idle one too. All children
                                                are Brownies."
                                        "But I could n't do work like a Brownie," said
                                                Tommy.
                                        "Why not?" inquired the Owl. " Couldn't you sweep the floor, light
                                                the fire, spread the table, tidy  the
                                                room, fetch the turf, pick up your own chips, and sort your
                                                grandmother's scraps ? You know ' there 's lots to do.' "
                                        " But I don't think I should like it," said
                                                Tommy. " I 'd much
                                                rather have a Brownie to do it for me."
                                        " And what would you do meanwhile ? " asked the
                                                Owl. "Be idle, I suppose;
                                                and what do you suppose is the use of a man's having children if they do
                                                nothing to help him? Ah! 'if they only knew how every one would love
                                                them if they made themselves useful !' "
                                        "But is it really and truly so? " asked Tommy, in a dismal voice. "Are
                                                there no Brownies but children ? "
                                        "No, there are not," said the Owl. " And pray do you think that the
                                                Brownies, whoever they may be, come into the house to save trouble for
                                                the idle, healthy little boys who live in it? Listen to me, Tommy," said the old lady, her eyes
                                            shooting rays of fire in the dark corner where she sat. "
                                                Listen to me: you are a clever boy, and can understand when one speaks;
                                                so I will tell you the whole history of the Brownies, as it has been
                                                handed down in our family from my grandmother's great-grandmother, who
                                                lived in the Druid's Oak, and was intimate with the fairies. And when I
                                                have done, you shall tell me what you think they are, if they are not
                                                children. It's the opinion I have come to at any rate, and I don't think
                                                that wisdom died with our great-grandmothers."
                                        "I should like to hear, if you please," said
                                                Tommy.
                                        The Old Owl shook out a tuft or two of fluff,
                                            and set her eyes a-going, and began : -


                                        
                                            
                                                
                                                    
                                                        "The Brownies, or as they are sometimes called, the Small
                                                            Folk, the Little People, or the Good Peo-  ple, are a race of tiny beings who
                                                            domesticate themselves in a house of which some grown-up
                                                            human being pays the rent and taxes. They are like small
                                                            editions of men and women, they are too small and fragile
                                                            for heavy work; they have not the strength of a man, but are
                                                            a thousand times more fresh and nimble. They can run and
                                                            jump, and roll and tumble, with marvellous agility and
                                                            endurance, and of many of the aches and pains which men and
                                                            women groan under, they do not even know the names. They
                                                            have no trade or profession, and as they live entirely upon
                                                            other people, they know nothing of domestic cares; in fact,
                                                            they know very little upon any subject, though they are
                                                            often intelligent and highly inquisitive. They love
                                                            dainties, play, and mischief. They are apt to be greatly
                                                            beloved, and are themselves capriciously affectionate. They
                                                            are little people, and can only do little things. When they
                                                            are idle and mischievous, they are called Boggarts, and are
                                                            a curse to the house they live in. When they are useful and
                                                            considerate, they are Brownies, and are a much coveted
                                                            blessing. Sometimes the Blessed Brownies will take up their
                                                            abode with some worthy couple, cheer them with their romps
                                                            and merry laughter, tidy the house, find things that have
                                                            been lost, and take little troubles out of hands full of
                                                            great anxieties. Then in time these Little People are
                                                            Brownies no longer. They grow up into men and women. They do
                                                            not care so much for dainties, play, or mischief. They cease
                                                            to jump and tumble, and roll about the house. They know
                                                            more, and laugh less. Then, when their heads begin to ache
                                                            with anxiety, and they have to labor for their own living,
                                                            and the great cares of life come on, other Brownies come and
                                                            live with them, and take up their  little cares, and supply their little
                                                            comforts, and make the house merry once more."
                                                
                                            
                                        
                                            
                                        "How nice ! " said Tommy.
                                        "Very nice," said the Old
                                                Owl. "But what" -and she shook herself
                                            more fiercely than ever, and glared so that Tommy expected nothing less than that her eyes would set
                                            fire to her feathers and she would be burned alive - " but
                                                what must I say of the Boggarts ? Those idle urchins who eat the bread
                                                and milk, and don't do the work, who lie in bed without an ache or pain
                                                to excuse them, who untidy instead of tidying, cause work instead of
                                                doing it, and leave little cares to heap on big cares, till the old
                                                people who support them are worn out altogether ? "
                                        "Don't ! " said Tommy. "I can't bear it."
                                        "I hope when Boggarts grow into men," said the
                                                Old Owl, "that their
                                                children will be Boggarts too, and then they 'll know what it is !
                                                "
                                        " Don't !" roared Tommy. " I won't be a Boggart. I'll be a
                                                Brownie."
                                        " That 's right," nodded the Old
                                                    Owl. "I said you were a boy who could understand when one
                                                spoke. And remember that the Brownies never are seen at their work. They
                                                get up before the household, and get away before any one can see them. I
                                                can't tell you why. I don't think my grandmother's great- grandmother
                                                knew. Perhaps because all good deeds are better done in
                                            secret."
                                        " Please," said Tommy, " I should like to go home now, and
                                                tell Johnnie. It's getting cold, and
                                                I am so tired !"
                                        " Very true," said the Old
                                                Owl, " and then you will have to be up early
                                                to-morrow. I think I had better take you home."

                                        

                                        " I know the way, thank you," said Tommy.
                                        " I did n't say show you the way, I said
                                                    take you— carry you," said the Owl. "Lean against me."
                                        " I'd rather not, thank you," said Tommy.
                                        "Lean against me," screamed the Owl. "Oohoo ! how obstinate boys are, to be
                                                sure ! "
                                        Tommy crept up, very unwillingly.
                                        " Lean your full weight, and shut your eyes," said the
                                                Owl.
                                        Tommy laid his head against the Old Owl's feathers, had a vague idea that she smelt
                                            of heather, and thought it must be from living on the moor, shut his eyes,
                                            and leant his full weight, expecting that he and the Owl would certainly fall off the beam together. Down -
                                            feathers - fluff - he sank and sank, could feel nothing solid, jumped up
                                            with a start to save himself, opened his eyes, and found that he was sitting
                                            among the heather in the malt loft, with Johnnie sleeping by his side.
                                        "How quickly we came !" said he; "that is certainly a very clever Old
                                                Owl. I could n't have counted ten whilst my eyes were shut.
                                                How very odd ! "
                                        But what was odder still was, that it was no longer moonlight, but early
                                            dawn.
                                        " Get up, Johnnie," said his brother; " I've
                                                got a story to tell you."
                                        And while Johnnie sat up, and rubbed his
                                            eyes open, he related his adventures on the moor.
                                        " Is all that true ? " said Johnnie; "I mean, did it
                                                really happen? "
                                        " Of course it did," said his brother; " don't you believe it? "
                                        " Oh, yes," said Johnnie. "But I thought it was perhaps
                                                only a true story, like Granny's true
                                                stories.  I believe all those, you
                                                know. But if you were there, you know, it is different - "
                                        " I was there," said Tommy, " and it's all just as I tell you :
                                                and I tell you what, if we mean to do anything we must get up: though,
                                                oh, dear! I should like to stay in bed. I say," he added, after a
                                            pause, "suppose we do. It can't matter being Boggarts for
                                                one night more. I mean to be a Brownie before I grow up, though. I could
                                                n't stand Boggarty children."
                                        "I won't be a Boggart at all," said Johnnie; " it's horrid. But
                                                I don't see how we can be Brownies, for I 'm afraid we can't do the
                                                things. I wish I were bigger! "
                                        " I can do it well enough," said Tommy, following his brother's example and
                                            getting up. " Don't you suppose I can light a fire ? Think
                                                of all the bonfires we have made ! And I don't think I should mind
                                                having a regular good tidy-up either. It's that stupid
                                                putting-away-things-when-you 've-done-with-them that I hate so!
                                            "
                                        The Brownies crept softly down the ladder and into the kitchen. There was the
                                            blank hearth, the dirty floor, and all the odds and ends lying about,
                                            looking cheerless enough in the dim light. Tommy felt quite important as he looked round. There is no
                                            such cure for untidiness as clearing up after other people; one sees so
                                            clearly where the fault lies.
                                        " Look at that doorstep, Johnnie," said the Brownie elect, " what a mess you made of it ! If you had lifted the moss
                                                carefully, instead of stamping and struggling with it, it would have
                                                saved us ten minutes' work this morning."
                                        This wisdom could not be gainsaid, and Johnnie only looked meek and rueful.

                                        

                                        " I am going to light the fire," pursued his
                                            brother; - " the next turfs, you know, we must get - you
                                                can tidy a bit. Look at that knife I gave you to hold last night, and
                                                that wood -that 's my fault, though, and so are those scraps by
                                                    Granny's chair. What are you
                                                grubbing at that rat-hole for ?"
                                        Johnnie raised his head somewhat flushed
                                            and tumbled.
                                        " What do you think I have found ? " said he
                                            triumphantly. "Father's measure that has been lost for a
                                                week ! "
                                        " Hurrah! " said Tommy; "put it by his things. That's just
                                                a sort of thing for a Brownie to have done. What will he say ? And I
                                                say, Johnnie, when you've tidied,
                                                just go and grub up a potato or two in the garden, and I'll put them to
                                                roast for breakfast. I'm lighting such a bonfire ! "
                                        The fire was very successful. Johnnie went
                                            after the potatoes, and Tommy cleaned the
                                            doorstep, swept the room, dusted the chairs and the old chest, and set out
                                            the table. There was no doubt he could be handy when he chose.
                                        "I'll tell you what I've thought of, if we have
                                                time," said Johnnie, as he
                                            washed the potatoes in the water that had been set for Brownie. " We might run down to the South Pasture for some
                                                mushrooms. Father said the reason we found so few was that people go by
                                                sunrise for them to take to market. The sun's only just rising, we
                                                should be sure to find some, and they would do for
                                            breakfast."
                                        "There's plenty of time,"  said Tommy; so they went. The dew lay heavy and thick
                                            upon the grass by the roadside, and over the miles of network that the
                                            spiders had woven from blossom to blossom of the  heather. The dew is the sun's breakfast; but he
                                            was barely up yet, and had not eaten it, and the world felt anything but
                                            warm. Nevertheless, it was so sweet and fresh as it is at no later hour of
                                            the day, and every sound was like the returning voice of a long absent
                                            friend. Down to the pastures, where was more network and more dew, but when
                                            one has nothing to speak of in the way of boots, the state of the ground is
                                            of the less consequence.
                                        The Tailor had been right; there was no
                                            lack of mushrooms at this time of the morning. All over the pasture they
                                            stood, of all sizes, some like buttons, some like tables; and in the
                                            distance one or two ragged women, stooping over them with baskets, looked
                                            like huge fungi also.
                                        " This is where the fairies feast," said Tommy. "They had a large party
                                                last night. When they go, they take away the dishes and cups, for they
                                                are made of gold; but they leave their tables, and we eat
                                            them."
                                        " I wonder whether giants would like to eat our
                                                tables," said Johnnie.
                                        This was beyond Tommy's capabilities of
                                            surmise; so they filled a handkerchief, and hurried back again, for fear the
                                                Tailor should have come
                                            downstairs.
                                        They were depositing the last mushroom in a dish on the table, when his
                                            footsteps were heard descending.
                                        " There he is! " exclaimed Tommy. " Remember, we must n't be caught.
                                                Run back to bed."
                                        Johnnie caught up the handkerchief, and
                                            smothering their laughter, the two scrambled back up the ladder, and dashed
                                            straight into the heather.
                                        Meanwhile the poor Tailor came wearily
                                            downstairs. Day after day, since his wife's death, he had come  down every morning to the same desolate sight -
                                            yesterday's refuse and an empty hearth. This morning task of tidying was
                                            always a sad and ungrateful one to the widowed father. His awkward struggles
                                            with the housework in which she had been so notable, 1 chafed him. The dirty kitchen was dreary, the
                                            labor lonely, and it was an hour's time lost to his trade. But life does not
                                            stand still while one is wishing, and so the Tailor did that for which there was neither remedy nor
                                            substitute; and came down this morning as other mornings to the pail and
                                            broom. When he came in he looked round, and started, and rubbed his eyes;
                                            looked round again, and rubbed them harder; then went up to the fire and
                                            held out his hand (warm certainly) - then up to the table and smelt the
                                            mush- rooms (esculent 2 fungi
                                            beyond a doubt)- handled the loaf, stared at the open door and window, the
                                            swept floor, and the sunshine pouring in, and finally sat down in stunned
                                            admiration. Then he jumped up and ran to the foot of the stairs, shouting,
                                            -
                                        " Mother! Mother! Trouts' luck has come again. And yet, no
                                                ! " he thought, "the old lady's asleep, it's a
                                                shame to wake her. I'll tell those idle, rascally lads; they 'll be more
                                                pleased than they deserve. It was Tommy, after all, that set the water and caught him. Boys!
                                                boys!" he shouted at the foot of the ladder, "
                                                the Brownie has come ! - and if he has n't found my measure! " he
                                            added, on returning to the kitchen; "this is as good as a
                                                day's work to me."
                                        There was great excitement in the small household that day. The boys kept
                                            their own counsel. The old Grandmother was
                                            triumphant, and tried not to seem surprised. The Tailor made no such vain effort, and 1 Notable, thrifty.
                                            2 Esculent, good to eat.
                                             remained till bedtime in a state of fresh
                                            and unconcealed amazement.
                                        " I've often heard of the Good People," he broke
                                            out toward the end of the evening. " And I 've heard folk
                                                say they've known those that have seen them capering round the gray
                                                rocks on the moor at midnight: but this is wonderful! To come and do the
                                                work for a pan of cold water! Who could have believed it ? "
                                        "You might have believed it if you'd believed me, Son
                                                    Thomas," said the old lady
                                            tossily. "I told you so. But young people always know
                                                better than their elders ! "
                                        " I did n't see him," said the Tailor, beginning his story afresh; "but I thought as I came in I heard a sort of laughing and
                                                rustling."
                                        " My mother said they often heard him playing and laughing
                                                about the house," said the old lady. " I told
                                                you so."
                                        "Well, he shan't want for a bowl of bread and milk
                                                to-morrow, anyhow," said the Tailor, "if I have to stick to
                                                    Farmer Swede's waistcoat till
                                            midnight."
                                        But the waistcoat was finished by bedtime, and the Tailor set the bread and milk himself, and went to rest.
                                        " I say," said Tommy, when both the boys were in bed, "
                                                the Old Owl was right, and we must stick
                                                to it. But I'll tell you what I don't like, and that is father thinking
                                                we're idle still. I wish he knew we were the Brownies."
                                        "So do I," said Johnnie : and he sighed.
                                        "I tell you what," said Tommy, with the decisiveness of elder brotherhood, " we'll keep quiet for a bit for fear we should leave off;
                                                but when we've gone on  a good while, I
                                                shall tell him. It was only the Old Owl's
                                                grandmother's great-grandmother who said it was to be kept secret, and
                                                the Old Owl herself said grandmothers
                                                were not always in the right."
                                        "No more they are," said Johnnie ; "look at Granny about this."
                                        " I know," said Tommy. " She 's in a regular
                                                muddle."
                                        "So she is," said Johnnie. " But that's rather fun, I
                                                think."
                                        And they went to sleep.
                                        Day after day went by, and still the Brownies "stuck to it," and did their
                                            work. It is no such very hard matter after all to get up early when one is
                                            young and light-hearted, and sleeps upon heather in a loft without window
                                            blinds, and with so many broken window panes that the air comes freely in.
                                            In old times the boys used to play at tents among the heather, while the
                                                Tailor did the housework; now they
                                            came down and did it for him.
                                        Size is not everything, even in this material existence. One has heard of
                                            dwarfs who were quite as clever (not to say as powerful) as giants, and I do
                                            not fancy that fairy godmothers are ever very large. It is wonderful what a
                                            comfort Brownies may be in the house that is fortunate enough to hold them!
                                            The Tailor's Brownies were the joy of his
                                            life; and day after day they seemed to grow more and more ingenious in
                                            finding little things to do for his good.
                                        Nowadays Granny never picked a scrap for
                                            herself. One day's shearings were all neatly arranged the next morning and
                                            laid by her knitting-pins; and the Tailor's tape and shears were no more absent without leave.

                                        

                                        One day a message came to him to offer him two or three days' tailoring in a
                                            farmhouse some miles up the valley. This was pleasant and advantageous sort
                                            of work: good food, sure pay, and a cheerful change; but he did not know how
                                            he could leave his family, unless, indeed, the Brownie might be relied upon
                                            to "keep the house together," as they say. The boys were sure that he would,
                                            and they promised to set his water, and to give as little trouble as
                                            possible; so, finally, the Tailor took up
                                            his shears and went up the valley, where the green banks sloped up into
                                            purple moor, or broke into sandy rocks, crowned with nodding oak fern. On to
                                            the prosperous old farm, where he spent a very pleasant time, sitting level
                                            with the window geraniums on a table set apart for him, stitching and
                                            gossiping, gossiping and stitching, and feeling secure of honest payment
                                            when his work was done. The mistress of the house was a kind, good creature,
                                            and loved a chat; and though the Tailor
                                            kept his own secret as to the Brownies, he felt rather curious to know if
                                            the Good People had any hand in the comfort of this flourishing household,
                                            and watched his opportunity to make a few careless inquiries on the
                                            subject.
                                        " Brownies ? " laughed the dame. "
                                                Ay, Master, I have heard of them. When I was a girl, in service at the
                                                old hall, on Cowberry Edge, I heard a good deal
                                                of one they said had lived there in former times. He did housework as
                                                well as a woman, and a good deal quicker, they said. One night one of
                                                the young ladies (that were then, they're all dead now) hid herself in a
                                                cupboard, to see what he was like."
                                        " And what was he like ? " inquired the Tailor, as composedly as he was able.
                                        " A little fellow, they said, " answered the Farmer's
                                                
                                            wife, knitting calmly on. "
                                                Like a dwarf, you know, with a largish head for his body. Not taller
                                                than - why, my Bill, or your eldest boy, perhaps.
                                                And he was dressed in rags, with an old cloak on, and stamping with
                                                passion at a cobweb he could n't get at with his broom. They 've very
                                                uncertain tempers, they say. Tears one minute and laughing the
                                                next."
                                        "You never had one here, I suppose ? " said the
                                                Tailor.
                                        " Not we," she answered; " and I
                                                think I 'd rather not. They're not canny, 1 after all; and my master and me have
                                                always been used to work, and we've sons and daughters to help us, and
                                                that's better than meddling with the Fairies, to my mind. No ! no !
                                                " she added, laughing, "if we had had one you'd
                                                have heard of it, whoever did n't, for I should have had some decent
                                                clothes made for him. I could n't stand rags and old cloaks, messing and
                                                moth-catching in my house."
                                        " They say it's not lucky to give them clothes,
                                                though," said the Tailor; " they don't like it."
                                        " Tell me ! " said the dame, " as if
                                                any one that liked a tidy room would n't like tidy clothes, if they
                                                could get them. No ! no ! when we have one, you shall take his measure,
                                                I promise you."
                                        And this was all the Tailor got out of her
                                            on the subject. When his work was finished, the Farmer paid him at once; and the good dame added half a
                                            cheese, and a bottle-green coat.
                                        " That has been laid by for being too small for the master,
                                                now he's so stout," she said; "but except for a
                                                stain or two it's good enough, and will cut up like new for one of the
                                                lads."
                                        1 Canny, safe.

                                        

                                        The Tailor thanked them, and said farewell,
                                            and went home; down the valley, where the river, wandering between the green
                                            banks and the sandy rocks, was caught by giant mosses, and bands of fairy
                                            fern, and there choked and struggled, and at last barely escaped with an
                                            existence, and ran away in a diminished stream; on up the purple hills to
                                            the old ruined house. As he came in at the gate he was struck by some idea
                                            of change, and looking again, he saw that the garden had been weeded, and
                                            was comparatively tidy. The truth is, that Tommy and Johnnie had
                                            taken advantage of the Tailor's absence to
                                            do some Brownie's work in the daytime.
                                        " It's that Blessed Brownie !" said the Tailor. "Has he been as
                                                usual? " he asked, when he was in the house.
                                        " To be sure," said the old lady; " all has been well, Son Thomas."
                                        " I 'll tell you what it is," said the Tailor, after a pause. "I 'm
                                                a needy man, but I hope I 'm not ungrateful. I can never repay the
                                                Brownie for what he has done for me and mine, but the mistress up yonder
                                                has given me a bottle-green coat that will cut up as good as new; and as
                                                sure as there's a Brownie in this house, I 'll make him a suit of
                                                it."
                                        "You 'll what?" shrieked the old
                                            lady. "Son Thomas, Son
                                                    Thomas, you're mad! Do what you
                                                please for the Brownies, but never make them clothes."
                                        " There's nothing they want more," said the
                                                Tailor, "by all
                                                accounts. They're all in rags, as well they may be, doing so much
                                                work."
                                        " If you make clothes for this Brownie, he 'll go for
                                                good," said the Grandmother, in
                                            a voice of awful warning.

                                        

                                        " Well, I don't know," said her son. " The mistress up at the farm is clever enough, I can tell
                                                you; and as she said to me, fancy any one that likes a tidy room not
                                                liking a tidy coat! " For the Tailor, like most men, was apt to think well of the wisdom
                                            of womankind in other houses.
                                        " Well, well," said the old lady, " go your own way. I'm an old woman, and my time is not
                                                long. It does n't matter much to me. But it was new clothes that drove
                                                the Brownie out before, and Trouts' luck went with him."
                                        " I know, Mother," said the Tailor, " and I've been thinking of it
                                                all the way home; and I can tell you why it was. Depend upon it, the clothes did n't fit. But I 'll tell you what I
                                                mean to do. I shall measure them by Tommy - they say the Brownies are about his size- and if
                                                ever I turned out a well-made coat and waistcoat, they shall be
                                                his."
                                        " Please yourself," said the old lady, and she
                                            would say no more.
                                        " I think you're quite right, Father," said
                                                Tommy, " and if I
                                                can, I '11 help you to make them."
                                        Next day the father and son set to work, and Tommy contrived to make himself so useful that the Tailor hardly knew how he got through so much
                                            work.
                                        " It's not like the same thing," he broke out at
                                            last, "to have some one a bit helpful about you; both for
                                                the tailoring and for company's sake. I've not done such a pleasant
                                                morning's work since your poor mother died. I 'll tell you what it is,
                                                    Tommy," he added, " if you were always like this, I should n't much care
                                                whether Brownie stayed or went. I'd give up his help to have
                                                yours."

                                        

                                        " I 'll be back directly," said Tommy, who burst out of the room in search of his
                                            brother.
                                        " I've come away," he said, squatting down, "because I can't bear it. I very nearly let it all out, and
                                                I shall soon. I wish the things were n't going to come to me," he
                                            added, kicking a stone in front of him. " I wish he'd
                                                measured you, Johnnie."
                                        " I 'm very glad he did n't," said Johnnie. " I wish he'd kept
                                                them himself."
                                        " Bottle-green, with brass buttons," murmured
                                                Tommy, and therewith fell into a
                                            reverie.
                                        The next night the suit was finished, and laid by the bread and milk.
                                        " We shall see," said the old lady, in a withering
                                            tone. There is not much real prophetic wisdom in this truism, but it sounds
                                            very awful, and the Tailor went to bed
                                            somewhat depressed.
                                        Next morning the Brownies came down as usual.
                                        " Don't they look splendid? " said Tommy, feeling the cloth. "
                                                When we've tidied the place I shall put them on."
                                        But long before the place was tidy, he could wait no longer, and dressed
                                            up.
                                        "Look at me!" he shouted; "bottle-green and brass buttons ! Oh, Johnnie, I wish you had some! '
                                        "It's a good thing there are two Brownies," said
                                                Johnnie, laughing, "and one of them in rags still. I shall do the work this
                                                morning." And he went flourishing round with a broom, while
                                                Tommy jumped madly about in his new
                                            suit. " Hurrah ! " he shouted, "
                                                I feel just like the Brownie. What was it Granny said he sang when he got his clothes ? Oh, I know
                                                - 
                                                    
                                                        
                                                            
                                                            'What have we here ? Hemten hamten,
                                                            Here will I never more tread nor stampen.'"'
                                                            
                                                        
                                                    
                                                
                                             And on he danced, regardless of the clouds
                                            of dust raised by Johnnie, as he drove
                                            the broom indiscriminately over the floor, to the tune of his own
                                            laughter.
                                        It was laughter which roused the Tailor
                                            that morning, laughter coming through the floor from the kitchen below. He
                                            scrambled on his things and stole downstairs.
                                        "It's the Brownie," he thought; " I must look, if it's for the last time."
                                        At the door he paused and listened. The laughter was mixed with singing, and
                                            he heard the words - 
                                                    
                                                        
                                                            

                                                            "What have we here ? Hemten hamten,
                                                            Here will I never more tread nor stampen."

                                                            
                                                        
                                                    
                                                 He pushed in, and this was the sight that met his
                                            eyes :-
                                        The kitchen in its primeval condition of chaos, the untidy particulars of
                                            which were the less apparent, as everything was more or less obscured by the
                                            clouds of dust where Johnnie reigned
                                            triumphant like a witch with her broomstick ; and, to crown all, Tommy capering and singing in the Brownie's
                                            bottle-green suit. brass buttons and all.
                                        " What's this ? " shouted the astonished Tailor, when he could find breath to speak.
                                        " It's the Brownies," sang the boys; and on
                                            they danced, for they had worked themselves up into a state of excitement
                                            from which it was not easy to settle down.
                                        " Where is Brownie ? " shouted
                                            the father.
                                        "He's here," said Tommy; "we are the Brownies."
                                        " Can't you stop that fooling?" cried the Tailor angrily. " This is
                                                past a joke. Where is the real Brownie, I say ?"

                                        

                                        "We are the only Brownies, really, Father," said
                                                Tommy, coming to, a full stop, and
                                            feeling strongly tempted to run down from laughing to crying. " Ask the Old Owl. It's true,
                                                really."
                                        The Tailor saw the boy was in earnest, and
                                            passed his hand over his forehead.
                                        "I suppose I'm getting old," he said; "" I can't see daylight through this. If you are the
                                                Brownie, who has been tidying the kitchen lately ? "
                                        " We have," said they.
                                        "But who found my measure ?"
                                        "I did," said Johnnie.
                                        " And who sorts your grandmother's scraps ? "
                                        "We do," said they.
                                        "And who sets breakfast, and puts my things in order ?
                                                "
                                        " We do," said they.
                                        "But when do you do it ? " asked the Tailor.
                                        "Before you come down," said they.
                                        "But I always have to call you," said the Tailor.
                                        "We get back to bed again;" said the
                                            boys.
                                        "But how was it you never did it before ? " asked
                                            the Tailor doubtfully.
                                        "We were idle, we were idle," said Tommy.
                                        The Tailor's voice rose to a pitch of desperation -
                                        "But if you do the work," he shouted, "where is the Brownie? "
                                        " Here !" cried the boys; "and we are very sorry we were Boggarts so
                                                long."
                                        With which the father and sons fell into each other's arms and fairly
                                            wept.
                                        . . . . . . . . . . 
                                        It will be believed that to explain all this to the Grandmother was not the work of a moment. She  understood it all at last, however, and the
                                                Tailor could not restrain a little
                                            good-humored triumph on the subject. Before he went to work he settled her
                                            down in the window with her knitting, and kissed her.
                                        "What do you think of it all, Mother?" he
                                            inquired.
                                        " Bairns are a blessing," said the old lady tartly;
                                                " I told you so."
                                   

                            "That's not the end, is it?" asked one of the boys in a tone of dismay, for
                                the Doctor had paused here.
                            "Yes, it is," said he.
                            "But could n't you make a little more end?" asked Deordie, - "to tell us what became of
                                    them all ?"
                            "I don't see what there is to tell," said the Doctor.
                            " Why, there's whether they ever saw the Old Owl
                                    again, and whether Tommy and Johnnie went on being Brownies," said the
                                children.
                            The Doctor laughed.
                            "Well, be quiet for five minutes," he said.
                            " We 'll be as quiet as mice," said the children.
                            And as quiet as mice they were. Very like mice, indeed. Very lake mice behind a wainscot
                                at night, when you have just thrown something to frighten them away. Deathlike stillness
                                for a few seconds, and then all the rustling and scuffling you please. So the children
                                sat holding their breath for a moment or two, and then shuffling feet and smothered
                                bursts of laughter testified to their impatience, and to the difficulty of understanding
                                the process of story- making as displayed by the Doctor, who sat pulling  his beard, and
                                staring at his boots, as he made up " a little more end."
                            "Well," he said, sitting up suddenly, "the
                                    Brownies went on with their work in spite of the bottle-green suit, and Trouts' luck
                                    returned to the old house once more. Before long Tommy began to work for the farmers, and Baby grew up into a
                                    Brownie, and made (as girls are apt to make) the best house-sprite of all. For, in
                                    the Brownie habits of self-denial, thoughtfulness, consideration, and the art of
                                    little kindnesses, boys are, I am afraid, as a general rule, somewhat behindhand
                                    with their sisters. Whether this altogether proceeds from constitutional deficiency
                                    on these points in the masculine character, or is one result among many of the code
                                    of by-laws which obtains in men's moral education from the cradle, is a question on
                                    which everybody has his own opinion. For the present the young gentlemen may
                                    appropriate whichever theory they prefer, and we will go back to the story. The
                                        Tailor lived to see his boy- Brownies become
                                    men, with all the cares of a prosperous farm on their hands, and his girl-Brownie
                                    carry her fairy talents into another home. For these Brownies - young ladies ! - are
                                    much desired as wives, whereas a man might as well marry an old witch as a young
                                    Boggartess."
                            "And about the Owl ? " clamored the children,
                                rather resentful of the Doctor's pausing to take
                                breath.
                            " Of course," he continued, " the Tailor heard the whole story, and being both anxious to
                                    thank the Old Owl for her friendly offices, and also
                                    rather curious to see and hear her, he went with the boys one night at moonrise to
                                    the shed by the mere. It  was earlier in the
                                    evening than when Tommy went; for before daylight
                                    had vanished - and at the first appearance of the moon, the impatient Tailor was at the place. There they found the Owl, looking very solemn and stately on the beam. She was
                                    sitting among the shadows with her shoulders up, and she fixed her eyes so steadily
                                    on the Tailor that he felt quite overpowered. He
                                    made her a civil bow, however, and said, -
                            "'I 'm much obliged to you, Ma'am, for your good
                                        advice to my Tommy.'
                            "The Owl blinked sharply, as if she
                                    grudged shutting her eyes for an instant, and then stared on, but not a word spoke
                                    she.
                            "' I don't mean to intrude, Ma'am,' said the
                                        Tailor; ' but I was wishful
                                        to pay my respects and gratitude.'
                            " Still the Owl gazed in determined
                                    silence.
                            "'Don't you remember me?' said Tommy pitifully. ' I did everything you
                                        told me. Won't you even say good-by ? ' and he went up toward
                                her.
                            "The Owl's eyes contracted, she
                                    shuddered a few tufts of fluff into the shed, shook her wings, and shouting ' Oohoo ! ' at the top of her voice, flew out upon the moor.
                                    The Tailor and his sons rushed out to watch her.
                                    They could see her plainly against the green twilight sky, flapping rapidly away
                                    with her round face to the pale moon. 'Good-by!' they shouted as she disappeared; first the departing owl,
                                    then a shadowy body with flapping sails, then two wings beating the same measured
                                    time, then two moving lines still to the old tune, then a stroke, a fancy, and then
                                    - the green sky and the pale moon, but the Old Owl
                                    was gone."

                            

                            " Did she never come back ? " asked Tiny, in subdued tones, for the Doctor
                                had paused again.
                            "No," said he; "at least, not to the shed by
                                    the mere. Tommy saw many owls after this in the
                                    course of his life; but as none of them would speak, and as most of them were
                                    addicted to the unconventional customs of staring and winking, he could not
                                    distinguish his friend, if she were among them. And now I think that is
                                all."
                            " Is that the very very end ? " asked Tiny.
                            "The very very end," said the Doctor.
                            " I suppose there might be more and more ends," speculated
                                    Deordie - " about whether the
                                    Brownies had any children when they grew into farmers, and whether the children were
                                    Brownies, and whether they had other Brownies, and so on and on." And
                                    Deordie rocked himself among the geraniums, in
                                the luxurious imagining of an endless fairy-tale.
                            " You insatiable rascal! " said the Doctor. " Not another word. Jump up, for I 'm going
                                    to see you home. I have to be off early to-morrow."
                            " Where ? " said Deordie.
                            "Never mind. I shall be away all day, and I want to be at home in good
                                    time in the evening, for I mean to attack that crop of groundsel between the sweet-
                                    pea hedges. You know, no Brownies come to my homestead ! "
                            And the Doctor's mouth twitched a little till he fixed
                                it into a stiff smile.
                            The children tried hard to extract some more ends out of him on the way to the Rectory;
                                but he declined to pursue the history of the Trout family through indefinite
                                generations. It was decided on all hands, however, that Tommy
                                    Trout was evidently one and the  same
                                with the Tommy Trout who pulled the cat out of the
                                well, because " it was just a sort of thing for a Brownie to do, you know ! " and that
                                    Johnnie Green (who, of course, was not Johnny
                                    Trout) was some unworthy village acquaintance, and "a thorough
                                Boggart."
                    
                                            
                " Doctor! " said Tiny, as they stood by the garden gate, "how long do you think
                        gentlemen's pocket handkerchiefs take to wear out ? "
                "That, my dear Madam," said the Doctor,
                        "must depend, like other terrestrial matters, upon circumstances; whether the
                        gentleman bought fine cambric, or coarse cotton with pink portraits of the reigning sovereign,
                        to commence with; whether he catches many colds, has his pocket picked, takes snuff, or allows
                        his washerwoman to use washing powders. But why do you want to know ? "
                "I shan't tell you that," said Tiny, who was
                    spoilt by the Doctor, and consequently tyrannized in proportion;
                        " but I will tell you what I mean to do. I mean to tell Mother that when Father
                        wants any more pocket handkerchiefs hemmed, she had better put them by the bath in the nursery,
                        and perhaps some Brownie will come and do them."
                "Kiss my fluffy face ! " said the Doctor
                    in sepulchral tones.
                "The owl is too high up," said Tiny, tossing
                    her head.
                The Doctor lifted her four feet or so, obtained his kiss, and set
                    her down again.
                " You 're not fluffy at all," said she in a tone of the utmost contempt;
                        " you 're tickly and bristly. Puss is more fluffy, and Father is scrubby and
                        scratchy, because he shaves."

                

                "And which of the three styles do you prefer?" said the Doctor.
                "Not tickly and bristly," said Tiny with
                    firmness, and she strutted up the walk for a pace or two, and then turned round to laugh over her
                    shoulder.
                " Good-night! " shouted her victim, shaking his fist after her.
                The other children took a noisy farewell, and they all raced into the house, to give joint versions
                    of the fairy tale, first to the parents in the drawing-room, and then to Nurse in the nursery.
                The Doctor went home also, with his poodle at his heels, but not by
                    the way he came. He went out of his way, which was odd; but then the Doctor was "a little odd," and moreover this was always the end of his evening walk.
                    Through the churchyard, where spreading cedars and stiff yews rose from the velvet grass, and where
                    among tombstones and crosses of various devices lay one of older and uglier date, by which he
                    stayed. It was framed by a border of the most brilliant flowers, and it would seem as if the
                        Doctor must have been the gardener, for he picked off some
                    dead ones, and put them absently in his pocket. Then he looked round, as if to see that he was
                    alone. Not a soul was to be seen, and the moonlight and shadow lay quietly side by side, as the dead
                    do in their graves. The Doctor stooped down and took off his
                    hat.
                "Good-night, Marcia," he said, in a low quiet voice.
                        " Good-night, my darling! " The dog licked his hand, but there was no
                    voice to answer, nor any that regarded.
                Poor foolish Doctor! Most foolish to speak to the departed with his face earthwards. But we are weak
                         mortals, the best of us ; and this man (one of the very best)
                    raised his head at last, and went home like a lonely owl with his face to the moon and the sky.
                    
        
        
                            
                               A BORROWED BROWNIE.

                            "I can't imagine," said the Rector, walking into the drawing-room the following afternoon, " I can't imagine where Tiny is. I want
                                    her to drive to the other end of the parish with me."
                            " There she comes," said his wife, looking out of the window,
                                    " by the garden gate, with a great basket; what has she been after
                                    ?"
                            The Rector went out to discover, and met his daughter
                                looking decidedly earthy, and seemingly much exhausted by the weight of a basketful of
                                groundsel plants.
                            "Where have you been ?" said he.
                            "In the Doctor's garden," said
                                    Tiny triumphantly; " and look what
                                    I have done! I've weeded his sweet- peas, and brought away the groundsel; so when he
                                    gets home to-night he 'll think a Brownie has been in the garden, for Mrs.
                                        Pickles has promised not to tell him."
                            " But look here ! " said the Rector, affecting a great appearance of severity, "
                                    you 're my Brownie, not his. Supposing Tommy Trout
                                    had gone and weeded Farmer Swede's garden, and brought back his
                                    weeds to go to seed on the Tailor's flower-beds,
                                    how do you think he would have liked it ? "
                            Tiny looked rather crestfallen. When one has fairly
                                carried through a splendid benevolence of this kind, it is trying to find oneself in the
                                wrong. She crept up to the Rector, however, and put
                                her golden head upon his arm.

                            

                            " But, Father dear," she pleaded, "I did n't
                                    mean not to be your Brownie; only, you know, you had got five left at home, and it
                                    was only for a short time, and the Doctor has n't
                                    any Brownie at all. Don't you pity him ? "
                            And the Rector, who was old enough to remember that
                                gravestone story we wot of, hugged his Brownie in his arms, and answered, -
                            " My darling, I do pity him! "
                       
        

        

        

            

            
                The Roverside Literature Series— Continued
                

                    69. Hawthorne's Old Manse, and a Few Mosses.**
                    70. A Selection from Whittier's Child Life in Poetry.**
                    71. A Selection from Whittier's Child's Life in Prose.**
                    72. Milton's L'Allegro, Il Penseroso, Comus, Lycidas, and
                            Sonnnets.*
                        **
                    73. Tennyson's Enoch Arden, and Other Poems.*
                    74. Gray's Elegy, etc.; Cowper's John
                            Gilpin, etc.
                    75. Scudder's George Washington.§
                    76. Wordsworth's On the Intimations of Immortality, and Other
                            Poems.
                    77. Burns's Cotter's Saturday Night, and Other Poems.*
                    78. Goldsmith's Vicar of Wakefield.§
                    79. Lamb's Old China, and Other Essays of Elia.
                    80. Coleridge's Rime of the Ancient Mariner, etc.;
                            Campbell's Lochiel's Warning, etc.*
                    81. Holmes's Autocrat of the Breakfast-Table.§§
                    82. Hawthorne's Twice-Told Tales.§§§
                    83. George Eliot's Silas Marner.§
                    84. Dana's Two Years Before the Mast.§§§
                    85. Hughes's Tom Brown's School Days.§§
                    86. Scott's Ivanhoe.§§§
                    87. Defoe's Robinson Crusoe.§§
                    88. Stowe's Uncle Tom's Cabin.§§
                    89. Swift's Gulliver's Voyage to Lilliput.§§
                    90. Swift's Gulliver's Voyage to Brobdingnag.**
                    91. Hawthorne's House of the Seven Gables.§§§
                    92. Burroughs's A Bunch of Herbs, and Other Papers.
                    93. Shakespeare's As You Like It.*
                        **
                    94. Milton's Paradise Lost. Books I.-III.**
                    95, 96, 97, 98. Cooper's Last of the Mohicans. In four parts.
                            (The four parts also bound in one volume, linen, 60 cents.)
                    99. Tennyson's Coming of Arthur, and Other Idylls of the
                        King.
                    100. Burke's Conciliation with the Colonies. ROBERT ANDERSEN,
                        A. M.*
                    101. Homer's Iliad. Books I., VI., XXII., and XXIV. POPE.*
                    102. Macaulay's Essays on Johnson and Goldsmith.*
                    103. Macaulay's Essay on Milton.*
                        **
                    104. Macaulay's Life and Writings of Addison.** Nos. 102, 103, and 104 are edited by WILLIAM P. TRENT.
                    105. Carlyle's Essay on Burns. GEORGE R. NOYES.*
                    106. Shakespeare's Macbeth. RICHARD GRANT WHITE, and HELEN
                        GRAY CONE.*
                        **
                    107, 108. Grimms' German Household Tales. In two parts.‡
                    109. Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress. W. V. MOODY.§
                    110. De Quincey's Flight of a Tartar Tribe. MILTON HAIGHT
                            TURK.*
                    111. Tennyson's Princess. ROLFE. (Double Number,
                            30 cents. Also, in Rolfe's Students' Series, cloth, to Teachers, 53 cents.)
                    112. Virgil's Æneid. Books I.-III. Translated by
                        CRANCH.
                    113. Poems from the Writings of Ralph Waldo Emerson. GEORGE H.
                            BROWNE.**
                    114. Old Greek Folk Stories. JOSEPHINE PRESTON PEABODY.*
                    115. Browning's Pied Piper of Hamelin, and Other Poems.
                    116. Shakespeare's Hamlet. RICHARD GRANT WHITE and HELEN GRAY
                            CONE.§
                    117, 118. Stories from the Arabian Nights. In two parts.‡
                    119. Poe's Raven, The Fall of the House of Usher, etc.**
                    120. Poe's Gold-Bug, The Purloined Letter, and Other
                            Tales.** Nos. 119, 120, are edited by
                        WILLIAM P. TRENT.
                    121. The Great Debate: Hayne's Speech.**
                    122. The Great Debate: Webster's Reply to Hayne.** Nos. 121, 122, are edited by LINDSAY SWIFT.
                    123. Lowell's Democracy, and Other Papers.**
                    124. Aldrich's Baby Bell, The Little Violinist, etc.
                    125. Dryden's Palamon and Arcite. ARTHUR GILMAN.*
                    126. The King of the Golden River, etc., by JOHN RUSKIN,
                            etc.*
                    127. Keats's Ode on a Grecian Urn, The Eve of St. Agnes,
                        etc.
                    128. Byron's Prisoner of Chillon, and Other Poems.
                
                Also, bound in linen: * 25 cents.
                    ** 70 and 71, in one vol., 40 cents; likewise 72 and 94, 89 and
                        90, 93 and 106, 103 and 104, 113 and 42, 119 and 120, 121 and 122, 123 and 39.
                    ‡ Also in one vol. 40 cents.
                    § Double Number, paper, 30 cents; linen, 40 cents.
                    §§ Triple Number, paper, 45 cents; linen, 50 cents.
                    §§§ Quadruple Number, paper, 50 cents; linen, 60 cents.
                
            
        
    
