
     ----CITATION----
        Borgo, Mary Elizabeth. Introduction to Jackanapes and The Brownies. .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2011).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB6984_intro

     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                Introduction to Jackanapes and The Brownies By Mary Borgo and E.
                    Noell
                When a reader opens the Riverside Literature Edition of Ewing's Jackanapes and The
                            Brownies, he or she first finds an advertisement for a
                    publisher's catalogue that includes an impressive list of authors.
                    Shakespeare, Longfellow, Tennyson, and Byron accompany the two little
                    children's stories included in this volume, their venerable presence an
                    indication of Juliana Horatia Ewing's historical importance. Though she
                    wrote in the 1800s, her influence has extended into the following centuries:
                            Jackanapes,
                        first published in 1879 in Aunt Judy's
                            Magazine, was used in Imperial Britain and the United
                    States to encourage young men to fight for their countries, and The
                            Brownies, appearing in Yonge's Monthly Packet in 1865, provided
                    the name for the Brownie division of the Girl Guides.
                Aside from the real-world impact of Ewing’s work, many factors make these texts
                    worth reading. "Jackanapes" and "The Brownies" are
                    marked by several traits characteristic of her writing, traits crucial to an
                    understanding of the children's literature of the Victorian period. Themes
                    of nationalism, morals, nature, and the supernatural are conveyed in a style
                    that is at once delicate and direct, familiar as a fairytale.
                One of Ewing’s central themes in Jackanapes is the relationship between nationalistic
                    militarism and Christian self-sacrifice. Jackanapes, the title character, dies
                    because he pauses in the middle of a retreat to rescue his childhood friend Tony
                    from the battlefield. Ewing originally wrote this story as a response to a
                    historical event, as Margharita Laski writes: The
                        Prince Imperial had lost his life in the fighting in Africa earlier in 1879,
                        and there was at the time much criticism of the British officer with him
                        who, it was believed, could have saved him. Thus the story of Jackanapes,
                        who did give his life for his friend, struck aptly at people’s emotions.
                                (Laski
                            50) Thanks to this
                    historical context, Jackanapes's death in the midst of a doomed engagement
                    resounds with the cultural weight of Alfred
                        Tennyson's The Charge of the Light
                            Brigade, that enduring popular Victorian paean to
                    useless, misguided, but noble sacrifice. Jackanapes's death accumulates
                    great cultural weight not only because he stands for the warrior who valiantly
                    dies for a hopeless cause, but also because of strong religious overtones since
                    his death results from his refusal to leave Tony behind when he might have
                    escaped danger alone. By this act he lives the Christian command to lay down
                    one's life for one's friend. Furthermore, his last request, made to a
                    hard-bitten Major, is to hear a prayer from the Parade Service. In an ironic
                    scene Jackanapes puts his commanding officer to shame, demonstrating faith in
                    the face of death, while the officer can barely remember a line of prayer to
                    mutter. Even so, his faith is essentially militaristic, for his request is
                    rooted in the army's religious routine. Thus, in Ewing's story
                    Christian faith accompanies and tempers military courage, even becoming
                    equivalent to it.
                In the valorous Jackanapes, then, Imperial aggression meets Christian values: he
                    is as classic a figure of this conflation as Rudyard
                            Kipling's "Tommy" in Barrack-Room Ballads and Other Verses or Tom Brown in
                            Thomas Hughes's Tom
                            Brown's Schooldays. But "Jackanapes" and "The Brownies" are
                    also excellent examples of Ewing's gift for positive moralizing. Instead of
                    writing cautionary tales about bad children who get into trouble, Ewing warmly
                    paints the benefits and pleasures of virtue. A case in point is the delightful
                    scene in which the young Jackanapes goes to the fair: his generosity with his
                    carnival money to Tony and his great aunt Miss Jessamine is rewarded by his
                    grandfather with the purchase of the Gypsy's horse Lollo, a pony that had
                    fired Jackanapes's courage and imagination. The relationship of good deed
                    to reward cannot be missed. Similarly, the little heroes of The
                            Brownies, Tommy and Johnnie, begin as lazy and unthankful
                    but end up savoring their father’s praise when they learn to do their housework
                    cheerfully. For the children in Ewing's stories, good deeds bring the
                    elation of good conscience and the acclaim of adults. As a result, her
                    moralizing is tender, addressing the child psyche adroitly in order to elicit
                    willing obedience.
                In The Brownies, Ewing's moral is embedded within a
                    traditional framework: the fairytale. Thanks partly to the Brothers Grimm, the
                    Victorians remained fascinated by fairytales through the end of the nineteenth
                    century. In 1812 and 1814, the Brothers
                            Grimm published their Children's and
                            Household Tales, which fed the persisting popularity of
                            Charles Perrault, whose classic Contes de ma Mère l'Oye, ou Histoires du temps passé was
                        published in 1697. Collections of fairytales circulated
                    in all kinds of formats in the 1800s, from expensive illustrated volumes to
                    penny chapbooks, and they contributed in part to a new generation of mid- to
                    late-Victorian authors working in the genre, such as George MacDonald and Oscar
                    Wilde. In these collections of fairytales, the narratives were often scripted as
                    oral stories told by female narrators to a young audience. Ewing reclaims this
                    female voice in The
                            Brownies as she constructs a complex oral framework for
                    her tale. A teller we sense to be female frames the story, in which a bachelor
                    Doctor entertains his neighbor the Rector's children with a tale about
                    Tommy and Johnnie. But within the Doctor's story, the boys'
                    grandmother and an Old Owl, both female, tell their own fairytales. To
                    complicate this structure further, the Rector's children at the end demand
                    that the Doctor give them another ending to his fairytale, constructing for the
                    reader the fantasy of a present, spoken, mutable narrative such as Ewing herself
                    used to tell her siblings in their childhood nursery. Together these layers add
                    to the oral quality of The
                            Brownies.
                Other aspects that mark "Jackanapes" and "The Brownies" as
                    stories characteristic of Ewing are their sense of place and their emphasis on
                    nature. The very first paragraphs of Jackanapes conjure a world of village peace and security;
                    the opening of The
                            Brownies is comic yet tender in its portrayal of
                    childhood woes. Essential to this atmosphere are the plants and animals clearly
                    dear to this writer. The Gray Goose in Jackanapes and the Owl in The
                            Brownies are as much characters as the human actors, but
                    Ewing makes them so without sentimentalizing or overly humanizing them. The Old
                    Owl marries real life to the supernatural as a semi-human figure who sets Tommy
                    on a moral path, and Lollo, the fiery little red pony of Jackanapes, exemplifies the Victorian tendency to worship
                    horses as the embodiment of a nature that happily serves mankind. Ewing's
                    attention to plants and animals thus builds a rich background for her
                    stories.
                A final trait of these narratives is the addition of figures outside the family
                    circle who intervene in family events. The Doctor in The
                            Brownies epitomizes this sort of character. His liminal
                    status enables him to speak into the family situation unimpeded by family
                    obligations, as he uses his story to encourage the children to be tidy without
                    the domineering stance he might convey if he spoke with parental authority. He
                    is a bridge between the child and the adult, a childless man who has not lost
                    his sense of boyishness. Indeed, his adult maturity combined with friendly
                    interest enhances the warmly moralistic quality of Ewing's tale.
                Through "Jackanapes" and "The Brownies,"
                    then, we as readers experience the best characteristics of Victorian
                    children's writing. A first encounter with Ewing's delightfully
                    simple, friendly, and funny style is enough to explain why this author was so
                    popular among the Victorians and remains influential today. In her understated
                    way she has shaped our expectations of what a good children's story should
                    be, and her tales only continue to enchant.
                
                    Bibliography
                    
                        Avery, Gillian. Mrs Ewing.
                                New York: H.Z. Walck,
                                1964.
                        Blom, Margaret. Juliana Horatia
                                Ewing (3 August 1841-13 May 1885). Dictionary of Literary Biography: Victorian Novelists Before
                                1885. Ed. Ira Bruce Nadel and
                                William E. Fredeman. Detroit:
                                Gale Research, 1983. 21:171-174
                        Demers, Patricia. Juliana Horatia
                                Ewing ( ). Dictionary of Literary
                                Biography: British Children’s Writers, 1800-1880. Ed.
                                Meena Khorana. Detroit:
                                Gale Research
                            1996. 163: 91-99.
                        Ewing, Juliana Horatia. Canada Home:
                                Juliana Horatia Ewing’s Fredericton Letters 1867-1869. Ed.
                                Margaret Howard Blom and Thomas E.
                                Blom. Vancouver: University
                                of British Columbia Press, 1983.
                        --. Jackanapes and The Brownies.
                                Boston: Houghton, Mifflin and
                                Company, 1902.
                        Gatty Eden, Horatia K. F. Juliana
                                Horatia Ewing and her books. Detroit:
                                Gale Research Co., 1969. First
                            published 1885 by the Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge.
                        Laski, Marghanita. Mrs Ewing, Mrs
                                Molesworth, and Mrs Hodgson Burnett.
                                London: A. Barker,
                                1950.
                        Maxwell, Christabel Ward. Mrs Gatty
                                and Mrs Ewing. London,
                                Constable, 1949.
                        Plotz, J.
                            A Victorian Comfort Book: Juliana Ewing's The Story of
                                a Short Life ed. J. H. McGarran, Romanticism and Children's Literature in
                                Nineteenth-Century England. Athens:
                                University of Georgia Press,
                                1991. 168–89.
                    
                
            
        
    
