
     ----CITATION----
        Taylor, Helen (1831-1907). The Claim of Englishwomen to the Suffrage Constitutionally Considered. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 51 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (December 20, 1995).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7170
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    The Claim of Englishwomen to the Suffrage
                        Constitutionally Considered.
                
                ByHelen Taylor.
                Reprinted from the “Westminster Review”
                    London:
                    Trübner and Co.,
                        60, Paternoster Row.
                MDCCCLXVII.
            
            
        
        
        
            
                The Claim of Englishwomen to the Suffrage Constitutionally Considered.
                AMONG the demonstrations of opinion which the discussions on
                    Parliamentary Reform have drawn forth during the past session, no one was more
                    remarkable than the petition signed by fifteen hundred ladies, which was
                    presented to the House of Commons by Mr. J. Stuart Mill. This petition is
                    comprised in a few short sentences, and sets forth that the possession of
                    property in this country carries with it the right to vote in the election of
                    representatives in Parliament; that the exclusion from this right of women
                    holding property is therefore anomalous; and that the petitioners pray that the
                    representation of householders may be provided for without distinction of
                    sex.
                This claim, that since women are permitted to hold property they should also be
                    permitted to exercise all the rights which, by our laws, the possession of
                    property brings with it, is put forward in this petition on such strictly
                    constitutional grounds, and is advanced so entirely without reference to any
                    abstract rights, or fundamental changes in the institutions of English society,
                    that it is impossible not to feel that the ladies who make it have done so with
                    a practical purpose in view, and that they conceive themselves to be asking only
                    for the recognition of rights which flow naturally from the existing laws and
                    institutions of the country.
                That a considerable number of ladies should think it worth while to examine into
                    their actual political status, and finding it to all appearance inconsistent
                    with the principles of the British Constitution, should proceed to lay what they
                    term the anomaly before the House of Commons, is assuredly
                    an important symptom of our national condition;
                    an evidence that the minds of English people, men and women, are actively at
                    work in many directions where they might have been but little expected to
                    penetrate. It is, at the same time, a sign of that disposition which various
                    causes (partly political and partly philosophical) have tended to foster of late
                    years, to seek the reform of existing evils rather in the development than in
                    the overthrow of the present order of things.
                It may appear, at first sight, as though in proportion to the millions of
                    Englishwomen who live happily under our laws, or who groan under all the
                    miseries of wife?beating and other social evils, without a thought of how their
                    condition might be affected by legislation, fifteen hundred women are too small
                    a number to be worthy of a moment’s consideration. But if we reflect a little on
                    the peculiar position of women, and their usual ways of thinking—on their
                    habitual reticence on all subjects which they are accustomed to consider as
                    beyond their own sphere, their timidity and dread of exposing their names to
                    public observation, their deference even to the most unreasonable prejudices of
                    those who have any claim on their affections, their clinging to old
                    associations, and their regard for the opinion of all who are even remotely
                    connected with them—we shall see reason to think that these fifteen hundred
                    ladies, who have not hesitated to affix their names to a public document, and to
                    pronounce a decided opinion, open to the controversy and criticism of all the
                    world, must represent an extraordinarily important phase of thought. It is not
                    going too far to say, that for one woman who can and will pronounce openly on
                    such a subject, there must be at least ten whom family hindrances or habitual
                    timidity will prevent from expressing an opinion, even if they have formed any.
                    And the number must be still greater of those whose minds are only partially
                    prepared for any ideas on such subjects, who are little in the habit of arriving
                    at any definite conclusions at all on political matters, but who, as they have
                    passed through much of the same experience, and lived in the same state of
                    society as their more energetic or more active?minded sisters, must have been
                    liable to the same influences, and are not at all unlikely to adopt the same way
                    of thinking, when it is put before them in so plausible and so little startling
                    a form as we find it in this petition. The peculiarly dependent position of
                    women is another circumstance which must add much to our estimate of the number
                    really represented by these fifteen hundred petitioners. There is scarcely a
                    family in the kingdom where a mother, or a widowed or unmarried sister, or one
                    married to a kind husband, is not the intimate friend and confidant of a
                    daughter, a mother, or a sister in a less fortunate position. Those who have
                    been brought up together, who have learnt from one another’s experience, or who
                    have imbibed from one another the same ways of feeling, are often separated in
                    appearance by the political or religious opinions of their fathers or husbands,
                    or by a domestic despotism which only allows one person to express openly what
                    many think. Moreover, when we remember that few women are able both to form and
                    to express political opinions at all, without the assistance and encouragement
                    of some at least among their male relations, it becomes evident that every woman who does form such must be looked upon as
                    the representative of a considerable body of opinion. And when the thought thus
                    expressed is so comparatively new as to meet with little external encouragement,
                    it must be strongly rooted in many unseen ramifications before it can have grown
                    vigorous enough to show itself in a clear, definite, and conspicuous shape. But
                    even independently of any of these considerations, it is impossible to glance
                    down the list of signatures appended to this petition without seeing that it
                    includes a proportion large for the actual number of names, both of the
                    intelligence and the property of Englishwomen. With all these facts before us,
                    we think we are justified in repeating that the appearance of such a claim,
                    supported in such a manner, is a significant indication of the direction public
                    opinion is taking.
                What we find asked for, then, in this petition seems to be that Englishwomen
                    shall be included in that measure of political freedom which the wisdom of
                    Parliament sees fit to grant to Englishmen. This amount of political
                    enfranchisement is asked for by the means by which men and women have for ages
                    been accustomed, in this country, to make their wants known to the legislature;
                    namely, by petition to the House of Commons. It would appear as if the election
                    to Parliament of a member who, before his election, distinctly enunciated his
                    opinion that women ought to have votes, has, in the judgment of the petitioners,
                    opened for them a new prospect of getting their claims heard. That a writer of
                    the scientific eminence and political ability of the member for Westminster
                    holds such an opinion, and moreover that openly proclaiming it he has been
                    returned to Parliament by a constituency influenced only by public motives, is
                    certainly a fact that may very justly encourage these ladies to think that the
                    political representation of women is really a question ripe for discussion; and
                    it may fairly give them reason to hope that if they can advance any rational
                    grounds for their claims, they will receive reasonable attention.
                This being the case, we propose to examine, in some degree, not merely into the
                    general purport of this petition, but also into the specific reasons assigned in
                    it for the claim which it puts forward. For although it would be in itself a
                    remarkable thing that so many Englishwomen are now prepared to ask for some sort
                    of political representation, yet more or less increase of the liberty allowed to
                    women has been recommended by men and asked by women, both in this country and
                    others, for a long time past. Some relaxation of the restrictions under which
                    the female sex has hitherto laboured is indeed a natural and inevitable
                    consequence of the advancing freedom and civilization of the other sex; but this
                    movement is marked by what appear to us some novel and especially national
                    characteristics. It is interesting to observe what form this general tendency
                    towards freedom assumes when it shows itself among a large body of Englishwomen;
                    by what means they propose to work it out, and by what train of reasoning they
                    seek to recommend it to their countrymen.
                The petitioners ground their request on the principles of the British
                    Constitution. They assert that certain facts in our existing  system establish that women cannot be considered to
                    be without the pale of the Constitution, for that there are precedents to show
                    that its general principles have already been applied to women in some
                    particular cases. They point out that in this country the franchise is dependent
                    upon property, and that the acknowledgment of women as sovereigns among us shows
                    that women are not considered disqualified for government. From these two
                    principles, both of which are undoubted parts of the British Constitution as it
                    stands at this day—the representation of property, and government by female
                    sovereigns—the petitioners draw the evident inference that where the female sex
                    is no bar to the higher, it cannot reasonably be to the lower privileges of
                    political life, when those privileges are dependent upon conditions (such as the
                    possession of property) which women actually fulfil. And they characterize the
                    exclusion of half the human race from any share in self?government as an
                        anomaly in our representative system.
                Whether this way of treating the subject arises from the petitioners themselves
                    only looking at it from this peculiarly English point of view, or whether it is
                    adopted as the one likely to meet with the most general support and the smallest
                    amount of dissent, it is equally a sign of the times. If the idea of the
                    political representation of women has now made its appearance among us in a
                    peculiarly English dress, and one adapted to the exigencies of the reform
                    discussions of the past session (which have turned so specially on the
                    representation of property, and a suitable property qualification), we cannot
                    refuse to admit that it is all the fitter to take its place among the political
                    ideas of the day; and that it has thereby assumed a more practical character
                    than if it had been attempted to establish it on the grounds of any more general
                    or philosophical systems of representation. Without attempting to go at length
                    into the subject, it will be easily seen that the representation of women might
                    be urged with considerable force on almost any of these systems; but it is
                    itself more in harmony with our present institutions than they are. Nothing can
                    be more entirely foreign to our whole English system than Universal Suffrage, or
                    than either Personal or Class Representation. All these systems, whether we hold
                    them to be in the abstract pernicious or beneficial, are so entirely unable to
                    coalesce with that already prevailing among us, that if they are to be tried it
                    would be a wise policy to introduce them parallel, so to speak, to
                    our present institutions, of which they are not the development, but properly
                    and literally a re?form. But if any of these systems be admitted, either
                    partially or entirely, either in theory or in practice, women would find a place
                    under them equally with men. Universal Suffrage by its very name includes them;
                    personal representation, if carried out on principle, has for its necessary
                    consequence the representation of women, since the leading idea of personal
                    representation is the effort to secure a hearing to every individual interest or
                    opinion in the nation, however insignificant or obscure. And the totally
                    opposite principle, of class representation, is in the highest degree favourable
                    to the political interests of women, who, if considered as a class, are the most
                    numerous class in the country. Indeed, no advo? 
                    cate of the system of class representation can for a moment refuse in
                    consistency to recognise the claims of so important a class, and of one which is
                    certainly bound together by a community of interests in many of the largest
                    branches of human affairs. Those who disapprove of all attempts at class
                    representation, and believe them to be a lingering remains of an effete state of
                    society, and those who disapprove of special legislation grounded on difference
                    of sex and enforcing by law the exclusion of women from all masculine
                    occupations or privileges, may consistently object to consider women as a class,
                    or to make any claim for them as such. But this is not possible for those who
                    group all women together, as actual or potential wives and mothers. They, on the
                    contrary, must in consistency admit that the wives and mothers of the nation,
                    regarded as a class, form one before whose vital importance, and overwhelming
                    numbers, all other classes shrink into insignificance. For independently of the
                    consideration that women are in this country more numerous absolutely than the
                    sum of all the many classes into which men are divided by their occupations, it
                    is evident that if women are permitted no other interests than those which they
                    hold in common with all women by virtue of their sex, these interests must be of
                    proportionately greater consequence to women than the equivalent interests are
                    to men, since men have other interests in life as well.
                If therefore the lady petitioners had chosen to urge their claims simply as
                    women, and not as English women, they would, on the theory of class
                    representation, have been able to take up very strong ground. But, apart from
                    all consideration of the abstract truth of this theory, it seems to us that they
                    have done well to leave it aside. For it is, as we have indicated, diametrically
                    opposed to the English political system, and indeed more fundamentally so than
                    personal representation. For if the English system refuses to recognise the mere
                    individual as a political unit, and if it insists that he must have palpable
                    evidence that he requires protection for something more precious (we presume)
                    than life or honour, before it admits him to any share in protecting himself;
                    still more does it refuse to protect interests which do not belong to any one in
                    particular, but which are diffused over vast numbers of men, grouped together
                    under the merely ideal definition of a class. Property represented by an
                    individual is the true political unit among us; and in this we recognise the
                    influence of those mediæval habits of thought, which, putting forward living
                    persons as the representatives of rights supposed to be inherent in particular
                    functions or particular localities, was itself practically an advance on those
                    Oriental ideas of caste which survive in the privileges of class, sex, or
                    colour. This mode of thought was due partly, no doubt, to the influence of the
                    Church, which gave and still gives examples of it in the “incumbent” and
                    “parson” or “persona,” who derives his rights neither from privilege of birth
                    nor even from his functions as priest, but from the induction into the enjoyment
                    of certain property for his life, of which he has the management; and of which
                    he becomes, so to speak, the bodily expression, the “persona,” responsible for
                    the due payment of all charges. It was diffused and perpetuated by the
                    arrangements made under the  feudal system for
                    the protection of property in times of war and against all illegal violence; and
                    it seems to have been held, that as only those possessing property could be
                    obliged to furnish a contingent share towards the expenses of government, they
                    alone had any direct interest to protect against the central authority, which,
                    in so far as it preserved peace and order in lawless times, must have stood in
                    the position of gratuitous benefactor towards the unpropertied portion of the
                    people. However this may be, there can be no doubt that the principle underlying
                    our English system of government, is that men are endowed with the privilege of
                    voting in the election of members of the Legislature, in order to enable them to
                    protect their property against undue taxation, or other legislative enactments
                    that might injuriously affect it. So deeply is this idea rooted in the English
                    mind, that long after the separation of the American colonies we find American
                    politicians arguing against conferring votes on negro slaves, upon the express
                    ground that slaves, not being able to hold property, do not require political
                    representation; and for authority for this point of view we find them referring
                    to the acknowledged principles of the British system of law, which, it is well
                    known, is considered as the foundation of the institutions of the United States,
                    wherever not abrogated by the American Constitution or by special
                    legislation.
                Lord Somers, in 1703, speaking in the name of the House of Lords, lays it down
                    that “The Lords ... conceive that giving a vote for a representative in
                    Parliament is the essential privilege whereby every Englishman preserves his
                    property; and that whatsoever deprives him of such a vote, deprives him of his
                    birthright.” The line of thought, or train of reasoning, plainly to be traced
                    here, is certainly very favourable to the claim of the ladies. The
                        birthright of an Englishman is defined by this high
                    authority as the privilege of preserving his property. He is refused any
                    birthright inherent in himself, but it is laid down that by the possession of
                    property he comes into possession of a privilege attached to property; a
                    privilege which is a birthright apparently,
                    because it is essential to the system of law under which he
                    is born. It is observable that this way of considering a birthright as not of natural but of
                        legal origin, is in conformity with modern habits of thought in
                    regard to civilized men, the natives of civilized societies; but exactly in
                    proportion as it is opposed to any à priori
                    theories of the rights of man, it is also opposed to any attempt to give or
                    withhold privileges for merely natural reasons, such as difference
                    of sex. It is hard to see how, if the law of England endows a woman with
                    property, it can, consistently with this legal dictum, deprive her of the
                        essential privilege (which, as we understand Lord
                    Somers, must be her birthright if she is born in England)
                    whereby her property is to be preserved. Undoubtedly, Parliament may make
                    special enactments excepting particular classes of English subjects from the
                    rights they would otherwise enjoy in common with the rest of the community; and
                    from this point of view the adoption of the word “male” in every Act of
                    Parliament which confers the suffrage, must be looked upon as the adoption of an
                    exceptional form, used (as Lord Somers would 
                    seem to say) to deprive Englishwomen of property of their
                        birthright. Now, it is assuredly in harmony with all
                    our institutions that any class of persons, labouring under an exceptional
                    disability as a consequence of special legislation, should petition Parliament
                    for its removal, and should appeal against it to the general principles of the
                    Constitution; while the burden of adducing sufficient reasons for such an
                    exceptional disability must, in justice, lie with its supporters.
                In pointing out the quite peculiar position occupied by female possessors of
                    property, the lady petitioners have undeniably touched upon a weak point in our
                    present political system, a kind of gap, where in political life there exists no
                    equivalent for what we have in social and civil life. It is an
                        anomaly, as they assert. For who else among us,
                    entitled by law to hold property to a certain amount, is nevertheless deprived
                    of the vote which the British Constitution looks upon as the safeguard of
                    property? The answer will be—Minors, idiots, lunatics, and criminals. These, and
                    these only, are classed politically along with women. But none of these are so
                    classed in anything but in politics. In no other respect can their standing
                    among us be compared with that of women. We do not mean to compliment the ladies
                    by asserting that they may not be as weak, as foolish, as mad, or as wicked as
                    any of all these classes of the community; but we might be as enthusiastic a
                    woman?hater as ever wrote in the Saturday Review, and still a
                    moment’s reflection on the legal position of these classes would show that it
                    has nothing in common with that of women administering their own property.
                    However incapable these latter may be, our institutions do actually permit them
                    to administer their property for themselves. Women do actually undertake the
                    responsibility and enjoy the privileges of property, excepting only the
                    privilege of voting. They are liable for debts; they can enter into contracts;
                    they can alienate or they can purchase at their own free will and pleasure; they
                    can devise by will or gift; they can sue or be sued in courts of law in
                    vindication of their rights or in punishment of their shortcomings; they can
                    release others from legal obligations towards themselves, and they can incur
                    legal obligations towards others in regard of the property they hold. But
                    minors, idiots, lunatics, and criminals can do none of all these things. They
                    merely hold the right to the possession of property at some future time when
                    they shall have become different from what they now are, along with the right to
                    transfer it to their heirs. Upon them the law bestows no power of dealing with
                    their possessions as seems good to themselves; no power of vindicating their own
                    doings before a legal tribunal; no power of prosecuting those who attack their
                    pecuniary interests; no power, in short, of preserving their
                        property before the civil law.
                Nor is this all. The legal powers of women in regard to property are no dead
                    letter. These powers are not an obsolete right known only to antiquarians,
                    hidden away among the curiosities of the Constitution, exercising no influence
                    upon the world around us; a mere chance survivor of effete customs, an
                    anachronism in the society in which we live. So far from it, the exercise of
                    these powers is an  established part of our
                    social system, and every day becoming a more prominent part. It awakens no
                    surprise by its novelty; it shocks the prejudices of no one among us; on the
                    contrary, he who should propose to deprive maiden ladies of their little
                    independence, and put it into the hands of their nephews, or who should
                    recommend a law to place all widows’ property under the control of their
                    deceased husband’s brother, would be universally looked upon as un?English, and
                    as either a fanatical admirer of exploded absurdities, or a would?be introducer
                    of Oriental ideas. Not only, therefore, do our laws permit women to exercise all
                    the rights of property, but it is customary with us for women to do so, and
                    public opinion regards their doing so as usual and proper. Nor is it any novelty
                    among us. Although we know that in the more disturbed and lawless periods of our
                    history it was necessary to make haste and marry rich unmarried girls and widows
                    (unless they were willing to retire into convents), in order to secure
                    protection for their riches, still we cannot point to any precise date when this
                    state of things came to an end, and when advancing civilization and general
                    respect for law relieved rich women form the fear of outrage, and made it
                    possible for them to dispense with a male protector. It is very possible that
                    the dispersion of the monastic houses may have hastened this stage in the
                    emancipation of women; it is still more probable that the rise of the middle
                    classes had much to do with it; but from whatever cause it originated, it has
                    long been an established thing with us that no woman is obliged to hand over her
                    property to any one unless she so pleases, and that if she does not so please,
                    law and custom allow her the fullest liberty, and an absolute equality of right
                    with men, excepting only in the single instance of political right.
                Whence, then, comes this exception? Why, when they possess the necessary
                    property, are women, alone among citizens of full age and sane mind, unconvicted
                    of crime, disabled by a merely personal circumstance (that of sex) from
                    exercising a right attached by our institutions to property and not to persons?
                    What is the historical origin of this anomaly? For an historical origin there
                    must be, and it appears to us shortsighted to attribute it to any of those
                    general theories about the natural functions of women which it might be
                    necessary to have recourse to in explaining a similar anomaly in a system based
                    on universal suffrage. The explanation must, we think, be sought in our own
                    history, and is not far to seek. It is probably the very fact to which we have
                    referred, that, during the earlier period of our constitutional history, society
                    was in so unsettled a state that women could not practically administer their
                    own property, which led to women’s not being included among the voters in the
                    elections of members of Parliament. While women did not actually fulfil the
                    other functions of owners of property, the political functions were naturally
                    not attributed to them. Even though it might be by no fault of their own that
                    women could not govern their own property in those times, still it was not
                    likely that they should be admitted to a share in the political government of
                    property which was not actually under their management. The Constitution was
                    perfectly consistent in permitting the feminine
                    nominal owners of the property to derive as much benefit from their civil
                    ownership as they could manage to do, while it ignored all personal claims on
                    their part to political influence derived from property which they were not
                    (from whatever causes) practically competent to administer. Many centuries
                    elapsed after our electoral system had been brought into tolerably regular
                    operation, before the progress of law and order enabled women, as a matter of
                    course, to exercise openly the civil rights which the law attaches to property.
                    It is in the natural course of things that now, after one or two centuries of
                    the practical enjoyment of their civil rights, intelligent women begin to ask
                    why the political rights should not accompany them.
                To this question, there can, we apprehend, be but one answer in the negative, at
                    all consistent with the general principles of English law and institutions. It
                    may be said that society is still in too uncivilized a condition to be able to
                    protect women in the enjoyment of their political rights; for that it is still
                    beyond the power of the Government to prevent them from being molested by
                    riotous proceedings at polling?booths, or coerced by undue interference on the
                    part of their male relations. It is evident that, even if this statement had a
                    broader foundation in fact than we believe it has, this foundation would be
                    diminished by the natural progress of every year that passes over our heads. But
                    it can scarcely be seriously maintained that the central authority which can
                    preserve Hyde Park, against the whole working population of London, for the
                    recreation and health of ladies and children of the upper classes, is
                    incompetent to preserve order in and around polling?booths on the exceptional
                    occasional of an election. And if neither the troops, nor the police, nor any
                    number of special constables could prevent women from being subjected to insult
                    on these occasions, it would still be perfectly easy to afford to them the same
                    immunities as are already accorded to non?resident members of the Universities
                    of Oxford and Cambridge, and to permit ladies also to record their votes by
                    means of voting papers.
                The notion that the possession of a vote would expose women to improper coercion
                    on the part of their male relations, will still less bear examination than the
                    theory that our Government is not strong enough to protect any class of its
                    subjects in the exercise of whatever rights it may see fit to accord them. The
                    strength of the motives that would be likely to induce men to interfere with
                    their female relatives in the disposal of their property, is incalculably
                    greater than the strength of the motives that, even in times of political
                    excitement, would urge men to try to overawe women in the exercise of the
                    suffrage. The law has for centuries ruled that women possess sufficient strength
                    of mind to protect their own pecuniary interests; and it has left them to seek
                    the same redress as men, if they find themselves subjected to force or improper
                    influence in doing so. The will of an elderly lady is not cancelled because of
                    the possible influence her son may have used to induce her to make it in his
                    favour, any more than the will of an old gentleman is set aside on account of
                    the possible interference of his daughter. The 
                    law very properly refuses to consider whether men are likely to domineer over
                    women, or whether women are likely to cajole men, and in either case it requires
                    ample proof before proceeding to act on particular instances of either
                    disposition. The law, which has, most properly, left women to fight their own
                    battle (and the battle of their heirs) against private greed, cannot be required
                    in these days to provide exceptional protection for them against the
                    comparatively mild force of political enthusiasm. No candidate for parliamentary
                    honours ever more ardently desired them, than a spend?thrift nephew desires that
                    his rich aunt would leave her comfortable fortune to him, rather than to her
                    favourite minister; nevertheless, we none of us dream of depriving the poor lady
                    of all control over her property, in order to protect her against the
                    unprincipled importunities either of the minister or of the nephew. Yet how
                    great is the prize that either of these may hope from the weakness of only one
                    woman, compared to the triumph of the parliamentary candidate, even if every
                    qualified woman in his constituency could be persuaded or compelled to vote for
                    him! To say that such danger of undue coercion as might be exposed to by the
                    possession of a vote, however small, is wanton, inasmuch as women seldom care
                    for politics, is to overlook the drift of the constitutional claim made by the
                    petitioners, and which it has been the purpose of this paper to follow out. The
                    English representative system, such as it is, good or bad, represents not
                    persons but property. By holding property women take on rights and duties of
                    property. If they are not interested in politics, their property is. Poor?laws
                    and game?laws, corn?laws and malt?tax, cattle?plague compensation bills, the
                    manning of the navy, and the conversion of Enfield rifles into
                    breech?loaders—all these things will make the property held by English women
                    more or less valuable to the country at large of this and the succeeding
                    generations. It is on the supposition that property requires representation that
                    a property?qualification is fixed by the law. It is not the mere personal
                    interests of the rich man that a property franchise is supposed to protect; were
                    it so, the injustice of giving the franchise to the rich man only would have
                    been too grossly palpable to have endured so long, or to be capable of as good a
                    defence as the English Constitution; for the rich man’s person is no dearer to
                    himself or to the nation than the poor man’s. Nor is it granted to him because
                    he is supposed to be, by some mysterious dispensation of providence, endowed by
                    the possession of a 10 
                        l
                        pound
                    . house with a special capacity to understand and care for the personal
                    happiness of himself or others. The law acts upon the supposition that he who is
                    in actual possession of property will be keener and more efficient to protect it
                    than any other person. The abhorrence of our ancestors for allowing land to fall
                    into  main?morte proceeded in part from this
                    mode of thought; a habit of considering it as at once the general interest that
                    land should be efficiently managed and protected, and as the most effectual way
                    of providing for its being so, to place it under the guardianship of an
                    individual personally interested in it. It is to us almost indubitable, that the
                    same legislators who enacted the statute of mortmain would, if as  much English property had been in the hands of women
                    as at the present day, either have deprived them of the right of holding
                    property at all, or else have invested them with the power of protecting it in
                    Parliament, rather than have permitted it to remain unrepresented as it is now
                    is.
                The next question that will probably be asked by such of our readers as have
                    accompanied us thus far in the consideration of the peculiar line of argument of
                    the Ladies’ Petition, is—Supposing this petition be granted, and that Parliament
                    were to extend the suffrage to duly qualified women, what good would it do to
                    them or to the country in general? And, on the other hand, what harm might be
                    expected to arise from it? And, looking at the matter from the point of view in
                    which it is placed by the petition, these two questions are perfectly
                    reasonable; it is indeed in our eyes one of the merits of this point of view
                    that it brings us so directly and so logically to the consideration of these
                    really practical questions, and enables us to leave aside all those
                    considerations either of abstract right or of accidental custom and sense of
                    fitness, the discussion of which is certain to be as difficult as it usually
                    indecisive. For if we acknowledge with the petitioners, that the exclusion of
                    women from the right to vote in the election of members of Parliament is an
                    anomaly, the question of right may be granted, but the question of expediency is
                    not. We may acknowledge that their exclusion is exceptional, the result of
                    exceptional legislation, producing an invidious distinction under which they
                    alone labour; and yet we may think it desirable to impose such a distinction,
                    and to establish such an exception. But then we must be prepared with reasons
                    for doing so. What this petition appears to us to have pointed out is, that no
                    one who accepts the principles upon which the British Constitution and English
                    society are established, can consider the exclusion of women from political
                    privileges as a matter of course. On the contrary, he must look upon it as the
                    result of anomalous legislation, requiring to be justified either by its urgent
                    necessity or by its evident advantages.
                Unfortunately for anything like clearness of thought, it is very seldom that we
                    find people willing to look at the subject in so simple and practical a manner;
                    too often, on the contrary, the very persons who would most object to importing
                    theories of the abstract rights of man, into a discussion on the franchise, will
                    go off into vague generalities on the nature of women, and fancy that some such
                    universal axioms can be somehow applicable to the legal position of particular
                    classes of Englishwomen in the nineteenth century. Now we are far from denying
                    that general principles must underlie not only all theory, but also all
                    practice. We readily admit that most people do in reality either accept or
                    reject the abstract theory of the natural equality of all men, just as they do
                    in reality talk either poetry or prose; and so, in like manner, most people have
                    their own theory as to the special aptitudes of women. But the theory that
                        all women are destined for family life is about as
                    applicable to any practical settlement of the franchise in this country, as the
                    somewhat equivalent one that all men are born free and  equal. We may assent to either
                    assertion, or we may dissent from it, without being one whit further advanced in
                    the question under discussion; for in fact they have nothing whatever to do with
                    it, unless we propose to pull down the whole fabric of English law and society
                    altogether, and build it up anew from its foundations. Whether or not all women
                    are destined for family life, all Englishwomen do not live it; whether or not
                    women are fitted by nature to be anything else than wives and mothers, many
                    Englishwomen are something else; whether law ought or ought not to recognise
                    women as anything else, the law of England does so recognise them. Marriage may
                    or may not be the only good, the only ideal existence for all women; but the law
                    of England has long ago refused to drive women into marriage, as sheep are
                    driven into a fold, by shutting every gate against them but the one they are
                    intended to go through. Even if all unmarried women ought to be looked upon as
                    stray sheep, still, as we have already seen, both law and custom in this country
                    have bestowed upon them abundance of rights and privileges; and the assertion
                    that such people have no right even to exist, is out of place in answer to the
                    question, whether the rights they already possess do not naturally imply one
                    right more?
                It seems to us, therefore, that no abstract ideas of woman’s mission can
                    reasonably be brought forward as proof of an urgent necessity for the exclusion
                    of women from the franchise under our existing system; and that if the question
                    is asked—What good would be gained by their admission? the answer is very
                    plain—Whatever good is to be gained by the British Constitution. If that be a
                    good, it is evident that the carrying it out must be good. The perpetuation of
                    an omission which originated in circumstances that have long since passed away,
                    must do as much harm to those who are omitted as would have been done to their
                    countrymen if the British Constitution had not existed. If it be an advantage to
                    be able to protect one’s property by the power of voting for members of
                    Parliament, the possession of this advantage must be a good for all those who
                    live and own property under Parliamentary Government. The good that would be
                    done to women themselves is, in fact, not open to dispute, unless we dispute the
                    advantage of Parliamentary Government and representation of property; and in
                    that case we must dispute the advantage of the English system of government
                    altogether.
                If, continuing to confine ourselves to a strictly constitutional point of view,
                    we ask what would be the advantage to the country in general of the political
                    representation of female holders of property, on the same conditions as men, we
                    think, as we have already indicated, that the reply is equally clear. If the
                    representation in Parliament of those who are interested in property is a
                    national good, tending to the preservation and fostering of all property
                    interests, to the increase of our national wealth, and to the handing down to
                    our descendants of the national property under favourable conditions, then the
                    disfranchisement of any class of holders of property must be an evil
                    proportioned to their numbers, and their enfranchisement an advantage in the
                    same proportion. Whatever may be the causes, there can be no doubt that the
                    class of independent women is a con?  tinually
                    increasing one in this country, and their admission to the franchise is
                    therefore continually becoming, by the natural course of events, a question of
                    greater practical importance.
                Turning now to the question, what harm could be done by their admission? we are
                    embarrassed by difficulty of finding any answer whatever, unless we go out of
                    the bounds we have prescribed to ourselves, and get beyond the limits of the
                    constitutional point of view. Revolutionary violence is out of the question from
                    them, and their numbers are not such as to give rise to any of the apprehensions
                    of a disturbance of the balance of power which have been excited in some minds
                    by the claims of the working classes. There would probably be found some duly
                    qualified female voters in every rank of society, and among them some members of
                    almost every religious system or political party, so that the existing interests
                    of no single class or party or religious body could have anything to fear from
                    them. It seems difficult to imagine a case where the principles of the
                    Constitution could be applied with more absolute freedom from the slightest
                    shadow of danger.
                Can it be said that, although there would be no danger to the State, nor to
                    anybody within the State, yet that private interests might suffer? We confess we
                    do not see how this is to be maintained. If we consider the private interests of
                    men, they cannot be concerned in the political action of independent women.
                    Their political interests may be; but we have just seen that for these there is
                    no danger. If it be urged that the power of voting may make women more
                    independent than it is thought they ought to be, it appears to us, once again,
                    that English law has already decided that women may be independent, and that a
                    woman who is absolute mistress of her own life, person, and property, will not
                    be rendered more independent of men by the power of giving an occasional vote
                    for a member of Parliament. There are some who think that by giving to any women
                    whatever the power politically to protect their own interests, we should
                    diminish that generous, disinterested, and romantic character which is so
                    charming in women, and which indeed we all like to see in others, and most of us
                    even to encourage in ourselves, so long as it does not expose us too defenceless
                    to the selfishness of the selfish. Yet the remarks we have already made on the
                    legal ability of women to defend their own pecuniary interests will apply even
                    more appositely here. For if the sole responsibility of all their own private
                    pecuniary affairs does not unsex spinsters and widows, and make them coarse,
                    worldly, avaricious, grasping, and selfish, the addition of a vote, giving them
                    a very slight direct influence on public affairs, is not likely to have so
                    extraordinary an effect upon the most gentle and amiable half of mankind; on the
                    contrary, as we find that the names of ladies abound on all charitable and
                    philanthropic subscription lists, showing how kindly and generous a use they are
                    disposed to make of their property, so we might reasonably expect that such
                    little direct influence on politics as the possession of a vote would give to
                    women, would probably be chiefly used in the direction of what we may call
                    philanthropic legislation; in any case, politics in themselves certainly afford
                    more scope for exalted  and generous feeling
                    than private business affairs. Ladies accustomed to the government of households
                    and the management of their families, will scarcely find political affairs
                    petty, or calculated to exercise a narrowing influence on their sympathies.
                    Whether we consider that women ought to be especially devoted to what is
                    beautiful or to what is good, there is much work in the interests of either to
                    be done in politics; and if the ladies were only to take schools, workhouses,
                    public buildings, parks, gardens, and picture galleries under their special
                    protection, and try to send to Parliament a few members who would work
                    efficiently at such subjects, the rest of the community would have cause to be
                    glad of their help, without their being themselves in the smallest degree
                    vulgarized by such a task.
                But, in fact, as we have already pointed out, it is too late to be afraid of
                    letting Englishwomen share in the life of Englishmen. We cannot shut up our
                    women in harems, and devote them to the cultivation of their beauty and of their
                    children. We have most of us long ago acknowledged that a perfect woman is
                
                    “Not too bright and good
                    For human nature’s daily food.”
                
                The fear that a womanly nature could be corrupted or hardened by politics, would
                    strike at the root of our Western and Christian civilization, which owes much of
                    its progress to having devolved upon women a share of the commonplace practical
                    cares and duties which go to make up the sum of ordinary human life, whether
                    domestic or political. The ingenuity, the love of luxury, the taste, and the
                    housewifely instincts of women, have contributed much to the comforts of modern
                    civilization; a more rapid and efficient adaptation of these same comforts to
                    prisons, schools, barracks, and workhouses, would be a useful and probable
                    result of the extension of women’s energies to political life. It is, indeed,
                    remarkable how large a part of the subjects which occupy most attention in
                    modern politics are of this quasi?domestic character; and how growing a tendency
                    there is for them to become ever more so. The homes of the working?classes,
                    education, factory acts (regulating the labour of women and children), sanitary
                    laws, water supplies, drainage (all municipal legislation in fact), the whole
                    administration of the poor?laws, with its various subdivisions—care of the
                    pauper sick, pauper schools, etc.—all these are subjects which already, by
                    common consent, are included in the peculiarly feminine province of home and
                    charity. If the possession of a vote should induce more women to extend their
                    interest to the comfort and happiness of other homes besides their own, it will
                    certainly not have exercised a deteriorating influence on their character.
            THE END.
                
        
    
