
     ----CITATION----
        Ward, Humphry, Mrs. (1851-1920). England's Effort. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 261 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2000-May-07).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7060
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    ENGLAND'S EFFORT
                    Six Letters to an American Friend
                
                BY MRS. HUMPHRY WARD
                WITH A PREFACE BY THE EARL OF ROSEBERY, K.G.
                
                    LONDON 
                    SMITH, ELDER & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE
                
                1916
                All rights reserved
            
            
                
                PREFACE
                I AM bidden to write a preface to this little book, though it
                    is impossible, I think, to add any interest to these vivid and helpful letters.
                    By writing them, Mrs. Humphry Ward has struck an effective blow for our country.
                    What she writes is, of course, sure to find readers. But literary charm is not
                    the purpose of this book, though it lends an incidental attraction. It is
                    intended to inform the mind of Americans as to the efforts and sacrifices of
                    Great Britain in this war. As to these, American opinion is, in some quarters at
                    any rate, said to be not fully informed, and sometimes wholly misinformed. It
                    would appear, indeed, that the branch of organisation in which for a time we
                    were least successful was that of presenting our case to neutral States; and yet
                    the moral importance of this operation can scarcely be exaggerated. The
                    Prussians, as consummately prepared for war as we were unprepared, have not
                    neglected this branch of business, and have carried it out with their usual
                    unscrupulousness.
                
                The consummate preparation of Prussia for this war is, indeed, at the base of all
                    argument as to its authors. It is of no use then, as Mrs. Ward points out, for
                    their Chancellors and pamphleteers to assert that a perfidious Albion engineered
                    this war for its own base, and it may be added, inscrutable purposes. For the
                    one simple incontrovertible proof of our innocence is that we were wholly
                    unprepared for such a conflict, while Germany was armed to the teeth and
                    prepared in every detail of organisation. It is not for the Army of 150,000 to
                    scheme war against the Army of millions. Our exertions have been since the war
                    began; and from that point of view alone they are superhuman.
                Why were we not prepared? In the first place because our Government could not be
                    persuaded of the imminence of the danger. But above all, because democracies
                    never prepare for war. There are always prophets to preach that civilisation has
                    put an end to such a barbarous method of settling disputes, and multitudes to be
                    tickled by so agreeable a doctrine. There are always politicians anxious to
                    postpone military to more popular forms of expenditure.
                
                These letters then are primarily intended to make known to those Americans who
                    are disposed to think of us as laggards the gigantic and unparalleled efforts
                    which we are making in this gigantic and unparalleled war. To the American
                    public we feel that we have a right to appeal. We do not presume to measure or
                    criticise the attitude of the Government of the United States and its anxiety to
                    keep clear of the hideous conflagration. But none the less do we feel that we
                    may claim the sympathy of the disinterested American people for the unselfish
                    but heroic part that our nation is playing in defence of the liberties of the
                    world. For let none mistake. If Prussian ideals should be victorious in this
                    conflict it means the definite abasement of Europe, and an infamous invasion of
                    freedom and public law which would not be restricted to the old world. To
                    mention only one case, it is clear that Prussian supremacy would imply a
                    constant and imminent danger from the ‘hyphenated’ Americans who preserve
                    Prussian sympathies and methods in the bosom of the Great Republic, methods
                    which have already been abundantly manifest in plot and outrage.
                
                It is better not to dwell on this aspect of the case, for it does not immediately
                    concern us. We stand foursquare to the world, and appeal with confidence to all
                    impartial opinion. There Prussia has not a friend. She has indeed purchased
                    Bulgaria, which owes everything to Russia. But elsewhere the condemnation has
                    been signal and severe, nowhere more so than in the United States. The juries of
                    civilisation have everywhere pronounced her guilty, even in cases where fear of
                    sharing the fate of Belgium might enjoin silence.
                But it is not merely to America that these letters should appeal. Among neutral
                    and even allied Powers there is much ignorance as to the part that our country
                    is playing; ignorance which these letters in their scope and power should
                    dispel. I know of friendly and intelligent critics among our allies who believe
                    that we have only put 200,000 men into the field. If that were true, that would
                    mean that we have done exactly what was expected of us at the outset. But, as
                    Mrs. Ward reminds us on the authority of the Prime Minister, we have raised five
                    millions of men in arms. And yet that is only a
                    part of our contribution. We have raised by votes of credit £2,382,000,000
                    during the war. We are spending nearly five millions a day. We have advanced at
                    least five hundred millions sterling to our Allies, and are daily advancing
                    more. We are supplying them with munitions to an extraordinary extent. Without
                    these advances, we are authoritatively told, the war could not be carried on.
                    More than all, our vast Armada, silent and ubiquitous, remains the vigilant
                    guardian of the seas. And it has already fulfilled the supreme task of all. It
                    cannot indeed protect every part of every ocean against murderous and relentless
                    piracy. But it has secured the food supply of Great Britain and her Allies. It
                    is well that all the populations concerned should realise this.
                Surely these facts speak for themselves. A supreme fleet, five millions of men in
                    arms; a million and a half of men and a quarter of a million of women turning
                    out munitions; a daily expenditure approaching five millions; a debt which is
                    piling up so formidably that by next March at its present rate it will have
                    reached the almost incalculable figure of £3,440,000,000; these are not a
                    trivial effort for a population of some forty
                    millions (for the purpose of this computation we are not counting the
                    Dominions).
                May we not indeed say more, that the history of the world produces nothing
                    comparable? Just as there is no parallel to an Empire which, though scattered
                    and worldwide, acts as a unit in this struggle.
                These figures record a prodigious sacrifice. We do not grudge it in a war for
                    liberty and existence. But we cannot understand how in face of these facts we
                    can be suspected of not doing our part. How long indeed could the war be carried
                    on without us?
                It is not merely Americans or neutrals who will do well to ponder these figures.
                    Many among our Allies imagine that they are bearing the brunt and that we are
                    watching the war without material inconvenience or giving material support. The
                    well-informed know better. I think that some misapprehension has been caused by
                    recent discussions about attested married men, which may have caused the
                    grotesque impression that our married men have hitherto been excluded from
                    service. But it is well that those who do not know should realise the
                        herculean exertions of Great Britain. Nay,
                    there are some among our own people to whom Mrs. Ward's facts may come as a
                    surprise.
                One further question arises which is poignant enough: what has Great Britain
                    obtained in return for these tremendous sacrifices? The bitter question of
                    Marullus occurs: 
                        
                            What conquest brings he home?
                            What tributaries follow him to Rome?
                        
                     The answer is not yet quite what we should wish it to be. We have given
                    full powers, a blank cheque, the best of our men. Our material acquisitions, so
                    far, are outside Europe, won with admirable valour and skill. Our Fleet holds
                    the sea, and the German flag has been driven from it. The heroism of our
                    soldiers and sailors, the stubborn tenacity which in the first act of the war
                    saved the situation, the chivalrous humanity and unsullied honour we have
                    opposed to rank barbarism:—these may seem little in a debit and credit account,
                    but they make us proud. As for the ultimate victory no soldier allows even a
                    momentary doubt. And we at home set our teeth doggedly and wait with confidence
                    for the inevitable end, though not unmindful
                    of the daily sacrifice involved by delay.
                There is another consideration which vitally concerns all of us in the Empire,
                    but especially those within these islands. What is to be the outcome of this war
                    as regards our own future? We are enveloped in a mist of war which bites into
                    our bones. We strain our eyes to penetrate it and to see what lies beyond. Is it
                    a settled gloom or the grey haze which precedes the dawn and the sunrise? What
                    effect will this war with its heroism abroad and its sacrifice at home have on
                    ourselves? We seem justified in thinking that we shall have found ourselves.
                    Glorious as our race has been in the past we may look forward to something
                    nobler still. We see our warriors returning to us a new nation, raised by the
                    stress and anguish of warfare to higher conceptions of duty, citizenship and
                    patriotism. They will have proved themselves fitted for great things, they will
                    be encompassed with glory and honour, they will lead the country. Comrades in
                    arms of all ranks and classes, they will be united by memories of sublime
                    endurance, they will feel a new fellowship, and the nation will be braced to face its future in a new
                    spirit. May we not hope, indeed, that all of us, combatants or non-combatants,
                    may rise to a higher level, and that out of the sorrows, distresses and
                    bereavements of the war we may find higher ideals and a closer union?
                And what of the Empire? If this opportunity of making imperial relations more
                    intimate and businesslike be lost, we deserve that it should never recur. But it
                    will not be lost.
                Lastly we may ask a question which concerns all mankind. Will this terrible
                    convulsion when it has subsided bequeath war or peace as its heritage? In any
                    case one would think there must be a generation of exhaustion. But will that
                    generation bestir itself to find some guarantee against the recurrence of the
                    curse or will it silently pile up armaments for hoarded vengeance? That is the
                    question on which depends the future of the human race.
                
                    ROSEBERY.
                    
                        May 1916
                    
                
            
            
                
                AUTHOR'S NOTE
                THESE letters are the first fruit of all of an urgent call from
                    America, and then of three months' travelling, thinking, and writing. They have
                    had necessarily to be written in haste. But I may certainly plead that all the
                    care that was possible has been given to them—short of delays that would have
                    made them useless. The title has caused me much trouble! Will any son of gallant
                    Scotland, or loyalist Ireland, or of those great Dominions, whose share in the
                    war has knit them closer than ever to the Mother-Country—should he come across
                    this little book—forgive me that I have finally chosen ‘England’ to stand for us
                    all? ‘Gott strafe England!’ has been the Germans cry of hate. I have given what
                    I conceive to be ‘England's’ reply. ‘Britain’—‘Great Britain’ are words that for
                    all their profound political significance have still to be steeped a good deal
                    longer in life and literature before they stir the same fibres in us as the old
                    national names. And ‘England’ as the seat of British Government has, it is
                    admitted, a representative and inclusive force. Perhaps my real reason is still
                    simpler. Let any one try the alternatives which suggest themselves, and see how
                    they roll—or do not roll—from the tongue. He or she will, I think, soon be
                    reconciled to ‘England's Effort’!
            
        
        
            
            ENGLAND'S EFFORT
            LETTERS TO AN AMERICAN FRIEND
            
                No. 1.
                
                    March 1916.
                
                
                    (I)
                    DEAR H.—Your letter has found me in the midst of work quite
                        unconnected with this hideous war in which for the last eighteen months we
                        in England have lived and moved and had our being. My literary profession,
                        indeed, has been to me, as to others, since August 4th, 1914, something to
                        be interposed for a short time, day by day, between a mind tormented and
                        obsessed by the spectacle of war, and the terrible reality it could not
                        otherwise forget. To take up one's pen and lose oneself for a while in
                        memories of life as it was long, long before the war—there was refreshment
                        and renewal in that! Once,—last spring—I tried to base a novel on a striking
                        war incident which had come my way. Impossible! The zest and pleasure which
                            for any story-teller goes with the first
                        shaping of a story, died away, at the very beginning. For the day's respite
                        had gone. The little ‘wind-warm space’ had disappeared. Life and thought
                        were all given up, without mercy or relief, to the fever and nightmare of
                        the war. I fell back upon my early recollections of Oxford thirty or forty
                        years ago—and it was like rain in the desert. So that, in the course of
                        months it had become a habit with me never to write about the
                        war; and outside the hours of writing to think and talk of nothing else.
                    But your letter suddenly roused in me a desire to write about the war. It was
                        partly, I think, because what you wrote summed up and drove home other
                        criticisms and appeals of the same kind. I had been putting them
                        mechanically aside as not having any special reference to me; but in reality
                        they had haunted me. And now you make a personal appeal. You say that
                        England at the present moment is misunderstood, and even hardly judged, in
                        America, and that even those great newspapers of yours that are most
                        friendly to the Allies are often melancholy reading for those with English
                        sympathies. Our mistakes—real and
                        supposed—loom so large. We are thought to be not taking the war seriously,
                        even now. Drunkenness, strikes, difficulties in recruiting the new armies,
                        the losses of the Dardanelles expedition, the failure to save Serbia and
                        Montenegro, tales of luxurious expenditure in the private life of rich and
                        poor, and of waste or incompetence in military administration—these are made
                        much of, even by our friends, who grieve, while our enemies mock. You say
                        the French case has been on the whole much better presented in America than
                        the English case; and you compare the international situation with those
                        months in 1863 when it was necessary for the Lincoln Government to make
                        strenuous efforts to influence and affect English opinion, which in the case
                        of our upper classes and too many of our leading men was unfavourable or
                        sceptical towards the North. You who know something of the vastness of the
                        English effort—you urge upon me that English writers whose work and name are
                        familiar to the American public are bound to speak for their country, bound
                        to try and make Americans feel what we here feel through every nerve—that
                        cumulative force of a great nation, which
                        has been slow to rouse, and is now immovably, irrevocably, set upon its
                        purpose. ‘Tell me,’ you say in effect, ‘what in your belief is the real
                        spirit of your people—of your men in the field and at sea, of your workmen
                        and employers at home, your women, your factory workers, your soldiers'
                        wives, your women of the richer and educated classes, your landowners and
                        politicians. Are you yet fully awake—yet fully in earnest, in this crisis of
                        England's fate? “Weary Titan” that she is, with her age-long history behind
                        her, and her vast responsibilities by sea and land, is she shouldering her
                        load in this incredible war, as she must shoulder it; as her friends—the
                        friends of liberty throughout the world—pray that she may shoulder it?’
                    Yes!—I must answer your questions, to the best of my power. I am no practised
                        journalist—the days of my last articles in the old Saturday
                            Review or the old Pall Mall are thirty odd years
                        behind me! But I have some qualifications. Ever since, more than half a
                        century ago, I paid my first childish visit to the House of Commons, and
                        heard Mr. Roebuck, the ‘Tear 'em’ of Punch's cartoon, make
                        his violent appeal to the English Government
                        to recognise the belligerency of the South, it would be almost true to say
                        that politics and affairs have been no less interesting to me than books;
                        and next to English politics, American politics and American opinion; partly
                        because of my early association with men like W.E. Forster, stanch
                        believers, even when Gladstone and John Russell wavered, in the greatness of
                        the American future and the justice of the Union cause; and partly because
                        of the warm and deep impression left upon me and mine by your successive
                        Ambassadors in London, by Mr. Lowell above all, by Mr. and Mrs. Phelps, by
                        the John Hays, the Choates and the Bayards, no less than by the many
                        intimate friendships with Americans from different worlds which my books
                        have brought me since 1888. During the last thirty years, also, I have had
                        many friends—and some kinsmen—among the leaders of English politics, and in
                        both political parties. At the present moment my only son is a member of the
                        English House of Commons, and a soldier fighting in the war. All my younger
                        kinsfolk are fighting; the sons of all my friends are fighting; and their
                        daughters are nursing as members of
                        Voluntary Aid Detachments—(marvellous what the girl V.A.D.s, as England
                        affectionately calls them, have done since the beginning of the war!)—or
                        working week-end shifts to relieve munition workers, or replacing men of
                        military age in the public offices and banks. I live in one of the Home
                        Counties, within five miles of one of the military camps. The small towns
                        near us are crowded with soldiers; the roads are full of marching infantry,
                        of artillery trains and supply wagons. Our village has sent practically all
                        its able-bodied men of military age to the Front; the few that remain are
                        ‘attested’ and only waiting to be called up. A great movement, in which this
                        household is engaged, is now beginning to put women on the land, and so
                        replace the agricultural labourers who have gone either into the armies or
                        the munition factories. And meanwhile all the elderly men and women of the
                        country-side are sitting on War Committees, or working for the Red Cross.
                        Our lives are penetrated by the war; our thoughts are never free from
                        it.
                    But in trying to answer your questions I have gone far beyond my own normal
                        experience. I asked the English Government
                        to give me some special opportunities of seeing what Great Britain is doing
                        in the war, and in matters connected with the war, and they have given them
                        ungrudgingly. I have been allowed to go, through the snowstorms of this
                        bitter winter, from which we have at last emerged, to the far north and
                        visit the Fleet, in those distant waters where it keeps guard night and day
                        over England. I have spent some weeks in the Midlands and the north,
                        watching the vast new activity of the Ministry of Munitions throughout the
                        country; and finally in a motor tour of some 500 miles through the zone of
                        the English armies in France, I have not only been a spectator of that
                        marvellous organisation in North-western France, of supplies,
                        reinforcements, training camps and hospitals, which England has built up in
                        the course of eighteen months behind her fighting line, but I have been—on
                        the first of two days—within less than a mile of the fighting line itself,
                        and on a second day, from a Flemish hill—with a gas helmet close at hand!—I
                        have been able to watch a German counter-attack, after a successful English
                        advance, and have seen the guns flashing from the English lines, and the
                        shell-bursts on the German trenches along
                        the Messines ridge; while in the far distance, a black and jagged ghost, the
                        tower of the Cloth Hall of Ypres broke fitfully through the mists—bearing
                        mute witness before God and man.
                    For a woman—a marvellous experience! I hope later on in these letters to
                        describe some of its details, and some of the thoughts awakened by them in a
                        woman's mind. But let me here keep to the main point raised by your
                            question—the effort of England. During these two months of
                        strenuous looking and thinking, of conversation with soldiers and sailors
                        and munition workers, of long days spent in the great supply-bases across
                        the Channel, or of motoring through the snowy roads of Normandy and Picardy,
                        I have naturally realised that effort far more vividly than ever before. It
                        seems to me—it must seem to any one who has seriously attempted to gauge
                        it—amazing, colossal. ‘What country has ever raised over sixty per cent of
                        its total recruitable strength, for service beyond the seas in a few
                        months?’ asks one of our younger historians—and that a country, not invaded,
                        protected by the sea, and by a supreme fleet; a country, moreover, without any form of compulsory military
                        service, in which soldiering and the soldier have been rather unpopular than
                        popular; a country in love with peace, and with no intention or expectation
                        of going to war with any one?
                
                
                    (II)
                    For there we come to the root of everything—the unpreparedness of
                            England—and what it meant. It meant simply that as a nation we
                        never wished for war with Germany, and, as a nation, we never expected it.
                        Our Governments of course contained men who saw more or less plainly the
                        dangers ahead, and had spent years of effort in trying to avoid them. On
                        several occasions, during the last twenty years, as we all remember, a wave
                        of sudden anxiety as to German aims and intentions had spread through the
                        thinking portion of the nation—in connection with South Africa, with
                        Morocco, with the Balkans. But it had always died away again. We know now
                        that Germany was not yet ready! Meanwhile fruitless efforts were made by
                        successive English Governments to limit armaments, to promote arbitration,
                        and extend the scope of the Hague Tribunal.
                        In vain. Germany would have none of them. Year by year, in a world of peace
                        her battle navy grew. ‘For what can it be intended but to attack England?’
                        said the alarmist. But how few of us believed them! Our Tariff Reformers
                        protested against the encroachments of German trade; but, outside a handful
                        of persons who seemed to most of us fanatics, the emphasis lay always on
                        care for our own people, and not on hostility to Germany. Those, indeed, who
                        warned us passionately that Germany meant to provoke a struggle, that the
                        struggle must come, were very little headed. Nobody slept the worse at night
                        for their harangues. Lord Roberts's agitation for National Service, based on
                        the portentous growth of the German army and navy, made comparatively little
                        way. I speak from personal experience of a large Parliamentary division.
                        ‘Did you foresee it?’—I said to one of the ablest and most rising men in the
                        Navy a few weeks ago. He thought a little. ‘I always felt there might be a
                        clash over some Colonial question—a quarrel about black men. But a war
                        between the white nations over a European question—that Germany would force
                        such a war—no, that I never believed!’ Nor
                        did any of us—except those few, those very few persons who, Cassandra-like,
                        saw the coming horror plainly, and spoke to a deaf country.
                    ‘There was no hatred of Germany in this country’—I quote a
                        Cabinet Minister. ‘Even in those parts of the country which had most reason
                        to feel the trade rivalry of Germany, there was no thought of war, no wish
                        for war.’ It came upon England like one of those sudden spates through
                        mountain clefts in spring, that fall with havoc on the plains beneath. After
                        such days of wrestling for European peace as have left their indelible mark
                        upon every member of the English Cabinet which declared war on August 4th,
                        1914, we fought because we must, because, in Luther's words, we ‘could no
                        other.’
                    What is the proof of this?—the proof which history will accept as
                        final?—against the vain and lying pleas of Germany?
                    Nothing less than the whole history of the past eighteen months!—beginning
                        with that initial lack of realisation, and those harassing difficulties of
                        organisation with which we are now so often and so ignorantly reproached. At
                        the word ‘Belgium’ on August 4th,
                        practically the whole English nation fell into line. We felt no doubts—we
                        knew what we had to do. But the problem was how to do it. Outside the Navy
                        and the Expeditionary Force, both of them ready to the last gun and button,
                        we had neither men nor equipment equal to the fighting of a Continental war,
                        and we knew it. The fact is more than our justification—it is our glory. If
                        we had meant war, as Germany still hoarsely but more faintly says, week
                        after week, to a world that listens no longer, could any nation of sane men
                        have behaved as we did in the years before the war? 233,000 men on active
                        service—and 263,000 Territorials, against Germany's millions!—with arsenals
                        and equipment to match. Is it any wonder that the country—our untouched,
                        uninvaded country—safe as it believed itself to be, under the protection of
                        its invincible Navy, was, in some sections of our population at any rate,
                        slow to realise the enormous task to which, for the faith of treaties' sake,
                        for self-defence' sake, it was committed?
                    And yet—was it after all so slow? The day after war was declared the Prime
                        Minister asked Parliament to authorise the addition of half a million men to the Army and a first war
                        credit of a hundred millions of money (five hundred million dollars). The
                        first hundred thousand men came rolling up into the great military centres
                        within a few days. By September 4th nearly 300,000 fresh men had enlisted—by
                        Christmas, half a million. By May, a million men had been added to the new
                        Armies; by September 1915 Sir John French alone had under his command close
                        on a million men on the lines in France and Flanders, and in December 1915
                        the addition of another million men to the Army was voted by Parliament,
                        bringing up the British military strength to approximately four millions,
                        excluding Colonials. And what of the Dominions? By November 1915, Canada and
                        Australia alone had sent us forces more than equal to the whole of that
                        original Expeditionary Force, that ‘contemptible little army’ which, broken
                        and strained as it was by the sheer weight and fierceness of the German
                        advance, yet held the gates of the Channel till England could fling her
                        fresh troops into the field, and France—admirable France!—had recovered from
                        the first onslaught of her terrible and ruthless enemy.
                    
                    In one of my later letters, I hope to give some particulars of this first
                        rush of men, gathered from those who witnessed it and took part in it. One
                        remarkable point in connection with it is that those districts most heavily
                        employed in munition-making and coal-mining, the two industries absolutely
                        indispensable to our Army and Navy, have also sent the largest supply of men
                        to the fighting line—take, for instance, Newcastle and the Clyde. Of course
                        there have been anxious episodes in the great development. Was your own vast
                        levy in the Civil War without them? And for the last half million men, we
                        have had to resort, as Lincoln resorted, to a modified form of compulsion.
                        There was, no doubt, a good deal of unnecessary waste and overlapping in the
                        first camp and billeting organisation of the enormous forces raised. But
                        when all is said, did we not, in the language of a French observer,
                        ‘improvise the impossible’?—and have we not good reason to be proud?—not
                        with any foolish vain-glory, but with the sober and resolute pride of a
                        great nation, conscious of its past, determined to correct its mistakes, and
                        looking open-eyed and fearless towards the future?
                    
                    Then as to munitions:—in many ways, as you will perhaps say, and as I agree,
                        a tragic story. If we had possessed last spring the ammunition, both for
                        ourselves and our Allies, that we now possess, the war would have gone
                        differently. Drunkenness, trade union difficulties, a small—very
                        small—revolutionary element among our workpeople—all these have made
                        trouble. But the real cause of our shortage lay in the fact that no one,
                        outside Germany, realised till far into the war what the ammunition
                        needs—the absolutely unprecedented needs—of this struggle were going to be.
                        It was the second battle of Ypres at the end of April last year which burnt
                        them into the English mind. We paid for the grim knowledge in thousands of
                        our noblest lives. But since then?
                    In a later letter I propose to draw some picture in detail of the really
                        marvellous movement which since last July, under the impulse given by Mr.
                        Lloyd George, has covered England with new munition factories, and added
                        enormously to the producing power of the old and famous firms; has drawn in
                        an army of women, now reckoned at something near a quarter of a million; and
                        is at this moment not only providing amply
                        for our own armies, but is helping those of the Allies, against those final
                        days of settlement with Germany which we believe to be now steadily
                        approaching. American industry and enterprise have helped us substantially
                        in this field of munitions. We are gratefully conscious of it. But England
                        is now fast overtaking her own needs.
                    More of this presently. Meanwhile to the military and equipment effort
                            of the country, you have to add the financial effort—something like
                            fifteen hundre millions sterling (seven thousand five hundred millions
                            of dollars) already expended on the war; the organising effort,
                        exemplified in the wonderful ‘back of the army’ in France, which I hope to
                        describe to you; and the vast hospital system, with all its scientific
                        adjuncts, and its constantly advancing efficiency.
                    And at the foundation of it all, the human and personal effort!—the lives
                        given for England, the blood so generously shed for her, the homes that have
                        sacrificed their all; our ‘golden lads’ from all quarters and classes, whose
                        young bodies lie mingled with an alien dust that ‘is for ever England,’
                        since they sleep there and hallow it; our
                        mothers who mourn the death or the wreck of the splendid sons they reared;
                        our widowed wives and fatherless children. And this, in a quarrel which only
                        very slowly our people have come to feel as in very deed their own. At first
                        we thought most often and most vividly of Belgium, of the broken treaty, and
                        of France, so wantonly attacked; whose people no English man or woman could
                        ever have looked in the face again, had we forsaken her. Then came the
                        hammer blows that forged our will—Louvain, Aerschot, Rheims, the air-raids
                        on our defenceless towns, the senseless murder of our women and children,
                        the Bryce report, the Lusitania, the execution of Edith
                        Cavell—the whole stupefying revelation of the German hatred and greed
                        towards this country, and of the qualities latent in the German character.
                            Now we know that it is they, or we; since they willed it
                        so. And this old, illogical, unready country is only just arriving at its
                        full strength, only just fully conscious of the sternness of its own
                        resolve, only just putting out its full powers, as the German power is
                        weakening, and the omens are changing—both in East and West.
                
                
                    
                    (III)
                    No!—the effort of England during the past eighteen months in spite of all
                        temporary ebbs and difficulties, in spite of that chorus of self-blame in
                        which the English nation delights, has been one of the great things in the
                        history of our country. We have ‘improvised the impossible’ in every
                            direction—but one.
                    In one point, indeed, there has been no improvisation. Nothing was trusted to
                        chance. What is it that alone has secured us the time to make the effort we
                        have made?
                    It is now about a month ago that, by permission of the Admiralty, I found
                        myself driving towards a certain pier in a harbour opening on the North Sea.
                        The Commodore of a Cruiser Squadron was to send his boat for me, and I was
                        to lunch with him on board his flagship. I duly passed the distrustful
                        sentry on the road leading to the pier, arrived at the pier-head, and
                        descended from the motor which had brought me. The morning was mistily
                        sunny, and the pier strangely deserted. Where was the boat?—where was my
                        friend who had hoped to come for me himself? No signs of either. The few
                            old sailors employed about the pier
                        looked at me in astonishment, and shook their heads when I inquired.
                        Commodore —'s boat was not there; no boat had been in that morning from the
                        ships. I took the Commodore's letter from my hand-bag, to assure myself I
                        had not been dreaming, and re-read it in perplexity. No dates could be
                        clearer—no directions more precise. Suddenly I perceive one tall naval
                        officer on the pier. ‘Can you help me, Sir?’ And I hand him the Commodore's
                        letter. He looks at me—and at the letter. His face twinkles with repressed
                        laughter; and I laugh, too, beginning to understand. ‘Very sorry,’ says the
                        charming young man—‘but I think I can assure you there will be no boat, and
                        it is no use your waiting. Commodore X went to sea last night!’
                    I thanked him, and we laughed together. Then I walked up the pier a little
                        way, seeing a movement in the mist. A sailor came up to me. ‘They
                            all went to sea last night,’ he said in my ear; ‘and there
                        are the slow ones coming back!’ And out of the mist came the black shapes of
                        warships, moving majestically up the harbour—one might have fancied, with a
                        kind of injured dignity, because their
                        unreasonable fellows had been faster and had gone farther afield than
                        they.
                    I walked back to my motor, disappointed indeed, and yet exulting! It was good
                        to realise personally, through this small incident, the mobility and
                        ever-readiness of the Fleet; the absolute insignificance—non-existence
                        even—of any civilian or shore interest, for the Navy at its work. It was not
                        till a week later that I received an amusing and mysterious line from
                        Commodore X, the most courteous of men.
                
                
                    (IV)
                    By the time it reached me, however, I was on the shores of a harbour in the
                        far north, ‘visiting the Fleet,’ indeed, and on the invitation of England's
                        most famous sailor. Let me be quite modest about it. Not for me the rough
                        waters, or the thunderous gun-practice— 
                            
                                ‘Breaking the silence of the seas
                                Among the farthest Hebrides’—
                            
                         which I see described in the letters of the Russian or American
                        journalists who have been allowed to visit the Grand Fleet. There had been
                        some talk, I understand, of sending me out in a destroyer; it was
                            mercifully abandoned. All the same, I
                        must firmly put on record that mine was ‘a visit to the Fleet,’ by Admiralty
                        permission, for the purpose of these letters to you, and through you to the
                        American public, and that I seem to have been so far the only woman who, for
                        newspaper ends, has been allowed to penetrate those mysterious northern
                        limits where I spent two wonderful days.
                    It was, indeed, a wintry visit. The whole land was covered with snow. The
                        train could hardly drag itself through the choked Highland defiles; and it
                        was hours behind its time when we arrived at a long-expected station, and a
                        Vice-Admiral looking at me with friendly, keen eyes came to the carriage to
                        greet me. ‘My boat shall meet you at the pier with my Flag Lieutenant
                        to-morrow morning. You will pick me up at the Flagship, and I will take you
                        round the Fleet. You will lunch with me, I hope, afterwards.’ I tried to
                        show my grateful sense both of the interest and the humour of the situation!
                        My kind visitor disappeared, and the train carried me on a few miles farther
                        to my destination for the night.
                    And here I take a few words from a journal written at the time:—
                    
                    ‘It is nearly dawn. A red light in the northeast is coming up over the snowy
                        hills. The water, steely grey—the tide rising. What strange moving bodies
                        are those, scudding along over the dim surface, like the ghosts of
                        seaplanes? Dense flocks of duck apparently, rising and falling along the
                        shallows of the shore. Now they are gone. Nothing moves. The morning is
                        calm, and the water still. And on it lie, first a cruiser squadron, and then
                        a line of Dreadnoughts stretching out of sight. No lights anywhere, except
                        the green lights on a hospital ship far away. The great ships lie dark and
                        silent, and I sit and watch them, in the cold dawn, thinking that but for
                        them, and the multitude of their comrades that guard these seas and shores,
                        England would be as Belgium or as Northern France, ravaged and destroyed by
                        a barbarian enemy. My heart goes out to you, great ships, and you, gallant
                        unwearied men, who keep your watch upon them! That watch has been kept for
                        generations. Never has there been such need for it as now.’...
                    ...But the day has risen, and the sun with it. As I leave the shore in the
                        Vice-Admiral's boat, the sunlight comes dancing over a low line of hill, lighting up the harbour,
                        the mighty ships, with their guns, and, scattered out to sea along the
                        distance, the destroyers, the trawlers, the mine-sweepers, the small
                        auxiliary craft of all kinds—those ‘fringes of the Fleet’—which Kipling has
                        caught and photographed as none but he can.
                    The barge stops beside the flagship, and the Admiral descends into it. What
                        is the stamp, the peculiar stamp that these naval men bear?—as of a force
                        trained and disciplined to its utmost capacity, and then held lightly in
                        check, till wanted. You see it in so many of their faces, even in eyes
                        hollow for want of sleep. It is always there—the same strength, the same
                        self-control, the same humanity. Is it produced by the testing weight of
                        responsibility, the silent sense of ever-present danger, both from the
                        forces of nature and the enmity of man, the high scientific training, and
                        last but not least that marvellous comradeship of the Navy, whether between
                        officer and officer, or between officers and men, which is constantly
                        present indeed in the Army, but is necessarily closer and more intimate
                        here, in the confined world of the ship, where all live together day after
                        day, and week after week, and where—if
                        disaster comes—all may perish together?
                    But on this bright winter morning, as we pass under and round the ships, and
                        the Admiral points out what a landswoman can understand, in the equipment
                        and the power of these famous monsters, with their pointing guns, there was
                        for the moment no thought of the perils of the Navy, but only of the glory
                        of it. And afterwards in the Admiral's pleasant drawing-room on board the
                        flagship, with its gathering of naval officers, Admirals, Captains,
                        Commanders, how good the talk was! Not a shade of boasting—no mere abuse of
                        Germany—rather a quiet regret for the days when German and English naval men
                        were friends throughout the harbours of the world. ‘Von Spee was a very good
                        fellow—I knew him well—and his two sons who went down with him,’ says an
                        Admiral gently. ‘I was at Kiel the month before the war. I know
                        that many of their men must loathe the work they are set to do.’ ‘The point
                        is,’ says a younger man, broad-shouldered, with the strong face of a leader,
                        ‘that they are always fouling the seas, and we are always cleaning them up.
                        Let the neutrals 
                            under-
                            understand
                         stand that! It is not we who
                        strew the open waters with mines for the slaughter of any passing ship, and
                        then call it ‘maintaining the freedom of the seas.’ And as to their general
                        strategy, their Higher Command’—he throws back his head with a quiet
                        laugh—and I listen to a rapid sketch of what the Germans might
                        have done, have never done, and what it is now much too late to do, which I
                        will not repeat.
                    Type after type comes back to me:—the courteous Flag Lieutenant, who is
                        always looking after his Admiral, whether in these brief harbour rests, or
                        in the clash and darkness of the high seas; the Lieutenant-Commanders whose
                        destroyers are the watch-dogs, the ceaseless protectors, no less than the
                        eyes and ears of the Fleet; the Flag-Captain, who takes me through the great
                        ship, with his vigilant, spare face, and his understanding, kindly talk
                        about his men; many of whom on this Thursday afternoon—the
                        quasi-half-holiday of the Fleet when in harbour—are snatching an hour's
                        sleep when and where they can. That sleep-abstinence of the Navy!—sleep,
                        controlled, measured out, reduced to a bare minimum, among thousands of men,
                        that we on shore may sleep our fill—look at
                        the signs of it, in the eyes both of these officers, and of the sailors
                        crowding the ‘liberty’ boats, which are just bringing them back from their
                        short two hours' leave on shore!
                    Another gathering, in the Captain's room, for tea. The talk turns on a
                        certain popular play dealing with naval life, and a Commander describes how
                        the manuscript of it had been brought to him, and how he had revelled in the
                        cutting out of all the sentimentalisms. Two men in the play—friends—going
                        into action—shake hands with each other ‘with tears in their eyes.’ A shout
                        of derisive laughter goes up from the tea-table. But they admit ‘talking
                        shop’ off duty. ‘That's the difference between us and the Army.’ And what
                        shop it is! I listen to two young officers, both commanding destroyers,
                        describing—one, his adventures in dirty weather the night before, on patrol
                        duty. ‘My hat, I thought one moment the ship was on the rocks! You couldn't
                        see a yard for the snow—and the sea—beastly!’ The other had
                        been on one of Admiral Hood's monitors, when they suddenly loomed out of the
                        mist on the Belgian coast, and the German army, marching along the coast road to Dunkirk and
                        Calais, marched no more, but lay in broken fragments behind the dunes, or
                        any shelter available, till the flooding of the dykes further south
                        completed the hopeless defeat which Admiral Hood's guns had begun.
                    Then the talk ranges round the blockade, the difficulties and dangers of
                        patrol work, the complaints of neutrals. ‘America should understand us.
                        Their blockade hit us hard enough in the Civil War. And we are fighting for
                        their ideals no less than our own. When has our naval supremacy ever hurt
                        them? Mayn't they be glad of it some day? What about a fellow called
                        Monroe!’—so it runs. Then its tone changes insensibly. From a few words
                        dropped I realise with a start where these pleasantly chatting men had
                        probably been only two or three days before, where they would probably be
                        again on the morrow. Some one opens a map, and I listen to talk which in
                        spite of its official reticence throws many a light on the vast range of
                        England's naval power, and the number of her ships. ‘Will they
                        come out?—when will they come out?’ The question runs round the group. Some
                        one tells a story of a German naval
                        prisoner taken not long ago in the North Sea, and of his remark to his
                        captors—‘Yes, we're beaten—we know that—but we'll make it hell
                        for you before we give in!’
                    For that final clash—that Armageddon that all think must come, our sailors
                        wait, not despising their enemy, knowing very well that they—the Fleet—are
                        the pivot of the situation, that without the British Navy, not all the
                        valour of the Allies in France or Russia could win the war, and that with
                        it, Germany's hope of victory is vain. While the Navy lives, England lives,
                        and Germany's vision of a world governed by the ruthless will of the
                        scientific soldier is doomed.
                    Meanwhile, what has Germany been doing in her shipyards all this time? No one
                        knows, but my hosts are well aware that we shall know some day.
                    As to England—here is Mr. Balfour moving the Naval Estimates in the House of
                        Commons—the ‘token votes’ which tell nothing that should not be told. But
                        since the war began, says the First Lord, we have added ‘one million’ to the
                        tonnage of the Navy, and we have doubled its personnel. We are
                        adding more every day; for the Admiralty are always ‘wanting more.’ We are quite conscious of our defects—in the Air
                        Service first and foremost. But they will be supplied. There is a mighty
                        movement afoot in the workshops of England—an effort which, when all
                        drawbacks are allowed for, has behind it a free people's will.
                    In my next letter I propose to take you through some of these workshops. ‘We
                        get the most extraordinary letters from America’—writes one of my
                        correspondents, a steel manufacturer in the Midlands,—‘What do they think we
                        are about?’ An American letter is quoted. ‘So you are still, in England,
                        taking the war lying down?’—
                    Are we? Let us see.
                
            
            
                
                No. 2
                
                    (I)
                    In this second letter I am to try and prove to you that England is
                            not taking the war ‘lying down.’
                    Let me then give you some account—an eye-witness's account—of what there is
                        now to be seen by the ordinary intelligent observer in the ‘Munition Areas,’
                        as the public has learned to call them, of England and Scotland. That great
                        spectacle, as it exists to-day,—so inspiring in what it immediately suggests
                        of human energy and human ingenuity, so appalling in its wider
                        implications—testifies, in the first instance, to the fierce stiffening of
                        England's resolve to win the war, and to win it at a lessened cost in life
                        and suffering to our men in the field, which ran through the nation, after
                        the second Battle of Ypres, towards the close of April 1915. That battle,
                        together with the disagreement between Mr. Winston Churchill and Lord Fisher
                        at the Admiralty, had, as we all know, momentous consequences. The two
                            events brought the national
                        dissatisfaction and disappointment with the general course of the spring
                        fighting. By May 19, the Ministry which had declared the war and so far
                        conducted it, had disappeared; a National or Coalition Ministry, drawn from
                        the leading men of both parties, reigned in its stead. The statement made by
                        Mr. Asquith, as late, alack, as April 20th, 1915, that there was ‘no truth
                        in the statement’ that our efforts at the Front ‘were being crippled or at
                        any rate hampered’ by want of ammunition, was seen almost immediately, in
                        the bitter light of events, to be due to some fatal misconceptions, or
                        mis-judgments, on the part of those informing the Prime Minister, which the
                        nation, in its own interests, and those of its Allies, could only
                        peremptorily sweep away. A new Ministry was created—the Ministry of
                        Munitions, and Mr. Lloyd George was placed at its head.
                    The work done since June 1915 by Mr. Lloyd George and his Ministry—now
                        employing vast new buildings, and a staff running into thousands—is nothing
                        less than colossal. Much, no doubt, had been done earlier for which the new
                        Ministry has perhaps unjustly got the
                        credit, and not all has been smooth sailing since. One hears, of course,
                        criticism and complaints. What vast and effective stir, for a great end, was
                        ever made in the world without them? Mr. Lloyd George has incurred a certain
                        amount of unpopularity among the working classes, who formerly adored him.
                        In my belief he has incurred it for the country's sake, and those sections
                        of the working class who have smarted under his criticisms most bitterly
                        will forgive him when the time comes. In his passionate determination to
                            get the thing done, he has sometimes let his theme—of the
                        national need, and the insignificance of all things else in comparison with
                        it—carry him into a vehemence which the workmen have resented, and which
                        foreign or neutral countries have misunderstood. He found in his path, which
                        was also the nation's path, three great foes:—drunkenness; the old envenomed
                        quarrel between employer and employed; and that deep-rooted industrial
                        conservatism of England, which shews itself, on the one hand, in the Trade
                        Union customs and restrictions of the working class, built up, as they hold,
                        through long years, for the protection of their own standards of life; and, on the other, in the
                        slowness of many of the smaller English employers (I am astonished, however,
                        at the notable exceptions everywhere!) to realise new needs and processes,
                        and to adapt themselves to them. Could any one have made such an omelet
                        without breaking a great many eggs! Is it wonderful that the employers have
                        sometimes felt themselves unbearably hustled, sometimes misunderstood, and
                        at other times annoyed, or worried by what seems to them the red tape of the
                        new Ministry, and its apparent multiplicity of forms and inquiries? Men
                        accustomed to conduct their own businesses with the usual independence of
                        regulation have been obliged to submit to regulation. Workmen accustomed to
                        defend certain methods of work and certain customs of their trade as matters
                        of life and death have had to see them jeopardised or swept away. The
                        restoration of these methods and customs is solemnly promised them after the
                        war; but meanwhile they become the servants of a public department almost as
                        much under orders as the soldier himself. They are asked to admit unskilled
                        men to the skilled processes over which they have long kept so jealous a guard; above all, they are asked to assent
                        wholesale to the employment of women in trades where women have never been
                        employed before, where it is obvious that their introduction taps an immense
                        reservoir of new labour, and equally obvious that, once let in, they are not
                        going to be easily or wholly dislodged. Of course, there has been friction
                        and difficulty; nor is it all yet at an end. In the few danger-spots of the
                        country, where heads are hottest, where thousands of the men of most natural
                        weight and influence are away fighting, and where among a small minority
                        hatred of the capitalist deadens national feeling, and obscures the national
                        danger, there have been anxious moments during the winter; there may
                        possibly be some anxious moments again.
                    But, after all, how little it amounts to—in comparison with the enormous
                        achievement! It took us nine months to realise what France—which, remember,
                        is a Continental nation under conscription—had realised after the Battle of
                        the Marne, when she set every hand in the country to work at munitions that
                        could be set to work. With us, whose villages were unravaged, whose normal
                        life was untouched, realisation was
                        inevitable slower. Again we were unprepared, and again, as in the case of
                        the Army itself, we may plead that we have ‘improvised the impossible.’ ‘No
                        nation,’ says Mr. Buchan in his vivid ‘History of the War,’ ‘can be
                        adequately prepared, unless, like Germany, it intends war; and Britain, like
                        France paid the penalty of her honest desire for peace.’ Moreover, we had
                        our Navy to work for, without which the cause of the Allies would have gone
                        under, must have gone under, at the first shock of Germany. What the workmen
                        of England did in the first year of the war in her docks and shipyards,
                        history will tell some day. ‘What's wrong with the men!’ cried
                        a Glasgow employer indignantly to me, one winter evening as, quite unknown
                        the one to the other, we were nearing one of the towns on the Clyde—‘What
                        was done on the Clyde, in the first months of the war, should never be
                        forgotten by this country. Working from six to nine every day, till they
                        dropped with fatigue—and Sundays, too—drinking just to keep themselves
                        going—too tired to eat or sleep—that's what it was—I saw it!’ I, too, have
                        seen that utter fatigue, stamped on a certain percentage of faces, through the Midlands, or the districts of the Tyne
                        and the Clyde—fatigue which is yet indomitable, which never gives way. How
                        fresh, beside that look, are the faces of the women, for whom workshop life
                        is new! In its presence one forgets all hostile criticism, all talk of
                        strikes and drink, of trade union difficulties, and the endless worries of
                        the employers. The English workman is not tractable material—far from it,
                        and he is not imaginative; except in the persons of some of his chosen
                        leaders, he has never seen a ruined French or Flemish village, and he was
                        slow to realise the bitterness of that silence of the guns on the Front,
                        when ammunition runs short, and lives must pay. But he has sent his hundreds
                        of thousands to the fighting line; there are a million and a half of him now
                        working at munitions; and it is he, in a comradeship with the brain workers,
                        the scientific intelligence of the nation, closer than any he has yet known,
                        and lately, with the new and astonishing help of women—it is he, after all,
                        who is ‘delivering the goods,’ he who is now piling the great arsenals and
                        private works with guns and shells, with bombs, rifles, and machine-guns, he
                        who is working night and day in the
                        shipyards, he who is teaching the rising army of women their work, and
                        making new and firm friends, through the national emergency, whether in the
                        trenches or the workshops, with other classes and types in the nation,
                        hitherto little known to him, to whom he too is perhaps a revelation.
                    There will be a new wind blowing through England when this war is done. Not
                        only will the scientific intelligence, the general education, and the
                        industrial plant of the nation have gained enormously from this huge impetus
                        of war; but men and women, employers and employed, shaken perforce out of
                        their old grooves, will look at each other, surely, with new eyes, in a
                        world which has not been steeped for nothing in effort and sacrifice, in
                        common griefs and a common passion of will.
                
                
                    (II)
                    All over England, then, the same quadruple process has now been going on for
                        months. 
                            (1) The steady enlargement of existing armament and munition
                                works, national or private.
                            
                            (2) The transformation of a host of other engineering businesses
                                into munition works.
                            (3) The co-ordination of a vast number of small workshops dealing
                                with the innumerable metal industries of ordinary commerce, so as to
                                make them feed the larger engineering works, with all those minor
                                parts of the gun or shell, which such shops had the power to
                                make.
                            (4) The putting up of entirely new workshops—National
                                Workshops—directly controlled by the new Ministry under the
                                Munitions Acts.
                        
                    Let me take you through a few typical scenes.
                    It was on February 1st, the day after the Zeppelin raid of January 31st, that
                        I left a house in the north where I had been seeing one of the country-house
                        convalescent hospitals, to which English women and English wealth are giving
                        themselves everywhere without stint; and made my way by train, through a
                        dark and murky afternoon, towards a midland town. The news of the raid was
                        so far vague. The newspapers of the morning gave no names or details. I was not aware that I was
                        passing through towns where women and children in back streets had been
                        cruelly and wantonly killed the night before, where a brewery had been
                        bombed, and the windows of a train broken, in order that the German public
                        might be fed on ridiculous lies about the destruction of Liverpool docks,
                        and the wrecking of ‘English industry.’ ‘English industry lies in ruins,’
                        said the Hamburger Nachrichten, complacently. Marvellous
                        paper! Just after reading its remarks, I was driving down the streets of the
                        great industrial centre I had come to see—a town which the murderers of the
                        night before would have been glad indeed to hit. As it was, ‘English
                        industry’ seemed tolerably active amid its ‘ruins.’ The clumsy falsehoods of
                        the German official reports, and the German newspapers, affect me strangely!
                        It is not so much their lack of truth as their lack of the ironic, the
                        satiric sense; which is a certain protection, after all, even amid the
                        tragedy of war. We have a tolerable British conceit of ourselves, no doubt,
                        and in war we make foolish or boasting statements about the future, because,
                        in spite of all our grumbling, we are at bottom a nation of optimists, and apt to see things as we wish. But this
                        sturdy or fatuous lying about the past—the ‘sinking’ of the
                            Lion, the ‘capture’ of Fort Vaux, or the ‘bombardment’ of
                        Liverpool docks—is really beyond us. Our sense of ridicule, if nothing else,
                        forbids—the instinct of an old people with an old and humourous literature.
                        These leading articles of the Hamburger Nachrichten, the
                        sermons of German pastors, and those amazing manifestoes of German
                        professors, flying straight in the face of historic documents,—‘scraps of
                        paper’—which are there, none the less, to all time:—for us, these things are
                        only not comic because, to the spiritual eye, they are written in blood.
                    But to return to the ‘ruins,’ and this ‘English industry’ which during the
                        last six months has taken on so grim an aspect for Germany.
                    My guide, an official of the Ministry, stops the motor, and we turn down a
                        newly made road, leading towards a mass of spreading building on the left.
                        ‘A year ago,’ says my companion—‘this was all green fields. Now the company
                        is employing, instead of 3500 workpeople, about three times the number, of
                        whom a large proportion are women. Its
                        output has been quadrupled, and the experiment of introducing women has been
                        a complete success.’ We pass up a fine oak staircase to the new offices, and
                        I am soon listening to the report of the Works Superintendent. A spare,
                        powerful man with the eyes of one in whom life burns fast, he leans, his
                        hands in his pockets, against the wall of his office, talking easily and
                        well. He himself has not had a day's holiday for ten months, never sleeping
                        more than five and a half hours, with the telephone at his bed head, and
                        waking to instant work when the moment for waking comes. His view of his
                        workmen is critical. It is the view of one consumed with ‘realisation,’ face
                        to face with those who don't ‘realise.’ ‘But the raid will do a deal of
                        good,’ he says cheerfully. ‘As to the women!’—he throws up his
                        hands—‘they're saving the country. They don't mind what they do. Hours? They
                        work ten and a half, or with overtime, twelve hours a day, seven days a
                        week. At least, that's what they'd like to do. The Government are insisting
                        on one Sunday—or two Sundays—a month off. I don't say they're not right. But
                        the women resent it. “We're not tired!” they say. And you look at them!—they're not
                        tired. If I go down to the shed and say: “Girls!—there's a bit of work the
                        Government are pushing for—they say they must have—can you get it done?”
                        Why, they'll stay and get it done, and then pour out of works, laughing and
                        singing. I can tell you of a surgical dressing factory near here, where for
                        nearly a year the women never had a holiday. They simply wouldn't take one.
                        “And what'll our men at the front do, if we go holiday-making?” Last night’
                        (the night of the Zeppelin raid) ‘the warning came to put out the lights. We
                        daren't send them home. They sat in the dark among the machines, singing,
                        “Keep the home fires burning,”—“Tipperary,”—and the like. I tell you, it
                        made one a bit choky to hear them. They were thinking of their sweethearts
                        and husbands I'll be bound!—not of themselves.’
                    In another minute or two we were walking through the new workshops. Often as
                        I have now seen this sight, so new to England, of a great engineering
                        workshop, filled with women, it stirs me at the twentieth time little less
                        than it did at first. These girls and women of the Midlands and the north,
                        are a young and comely race. Their slight
                        or rounded figures, among the forest of machines, the fair or golden hair of
                        so many of them, their grace of movement, bring a strange touch of beauty
                        into a scene which has already its own spell. Etchers like Muirhead Bone, or
                        Joseph Pennell have shown us what can be done in art with these high
                        workshops, their intricate distances, the endless criss-cross of their
                        belting, and their ranged machines. But the coming in of the girls, in their
                        close khaki caps and overalls, shewing the many pretty heads, and slender
                        necks, and the rows of light bending forms, spaced in order, beside their
                        furnaces or lathes, as far as the eye can reach, has added a new
                        element—something flower-like—to all this flash of fire and steel, and to
                        the grimness of war underlying it.
                    For the final meaning of it all is neither soft nor feminine! These girls—at
                        hot haste—are making fuses and cartridge-cases, by the hundred thousand,
                        casting, pressing, drawing—and—in the special danger-buildings—filling
                        certain parts of the fuse with explosive. There were about 4000 of them, to
                        5000 men, when I saw the shop, and their number has no doubt increased
                        since; for the latest figures shew that
                        about 15,000 fresh women workers are going into the munition works every
                        week. The men are steadily training them, and without the teaching and
                        co-operation of the men—without, that is, the surrender by the men of some
                        of their most cherished trade customs—the whole movement would have been
                        impossible. As it is, by the sheer body of work the women have brought in,
                        by the deftness, energy, and enthusiasm they throw into the simpler but
                        quite indispensable processes, thereby setting the unskilled man free for
                        the Army, and the skilled man for work which women cannot do, Great Britain
                        has become possessed of new and vast resources of which she scarcely dreamed
                        a year ago; and so far as this war is a war of machinery—and we all know
                        what Germany's arsenals have done to it make it so—its whole aspect is now
                        changing for us. The ‘eternal feminine’ has made one more startling
                        incursion upon the normal web of things!
                    But on the ‘dilution’ of labour, the burning question of the hour, I shall
                        have something to say in my next letter. Let me record another visit of the
                        same day to a small-arms factory of importance. Not many women here so far, though the number is
                        increasing—but look at the expansion figures since last summer! A large, new
                        factory added, on a bare field; 40,000 tons of excavation removed; two miles
                        of new shops, 60 feet wide and four floors high; the output in rifles
                        quadrupled—and so on. We climbed to the top floor of the new buildings and
                        looked far and wide over the town. Dotted over the tall roofs rose the
                        national flags, marking ‘controlled’ factories, i.e., factories
                        still given a year ago to one or other of the miscellaneous metal trades of
                        the Midlands, and now making fuse or shell for England's armies, and under
                        the control of the British Government. One had a sudden sharp sense of the
                        town's corporate life, and of the spirit working in it everywhere for
                        England's victory. Before we descend, we watch the testing of a particular
                        gun. I was to hear its note on the actual battlefield a month later.
                    An afternoon train takes me on to another great town, with some very ancient
                        institutions, which have done very modern service in the war. I spent my
                        evening in talking with my host, a steel-manufacturer identified with the
                        life of the city, but serving also on one
                        of the central Committees of the Ministry in London. Labour and politics,
                        the chances of the war, America and American feeling towards us, the task of
                        the new Minister of Munitions, the temper of English and Scotch workmen, the
                        flux into which all manufacturing conditions have been thrown by the war,
                        and how far old landmarks can be restored after it—we talked hard on these
                        and many other topics, till I must break it off—unwillingly—to get some
                        sleep and write some notes.
                
                
                    (III)
                    Next day took me deep into the very central current of ‘England's effort’—so
                        far as this great phase of it, at any rate, is concerned. In this town, even
                        more than in the city I had just left, one felt the throb of the nation's
                        rising power, concentrated, orderly, determined. Every single engineering
                        business in a town of engineers was working for the war. Every manufacturer
                        of any importance was doing his best for the Government, some in connection
                        with the new Ministry, some with the Admiralty, some with the War Office. As
                        for the leading firms of the city, the record of growth, of a mounting energy by day and night,
                        was nothing short of bewildering. Take these few impressions of a long day,
                        as they come back to me.
                    First—a great steel warehouse, full of raw steel of many sorts and kinds,
                        bayonet steel, rifle steel, shell steel, stacked in every available corner
                        and against every possible wall; all sold, every bit of it, and ready to be
                        shipped—some to the Colonies, some to our Allies with peremptory orders
                        coming in as to which the harassed head of the firm could only shake his
                        head with a despairing ‘impossible!’
                    Then, some hours in a famous works, under the guidance of the managing
                        director, one of those men—shrewd, indefatigable, humane—in whose company
                        one learns what it is, in spite of all our supposed deficiencies, that makes
                        the secret of England's industrial tenacity. An elderly Scotchman, very
                        plainly marked by the labour and strain of the preceding eighteen months,
                        but still steadily keeping his head and his temper, shewing the signs of an
                        Evangelical tradition in his strong dislike for Sunday work, his evident
                        care for his workpeople, men and women, and his just and sympathetic tone
                        towards the labour with which he has to
                        deal:—such is my companion. He has a wonderful story to tell. ‘In September,
                        1914, we were called upon to manufacture a large extra number of field guns.
                        We had neither buildings nor machinery for the order. However, we set to
                        work. We took down seven dwelling-houses; in three weeks we were
                        whitewashing the walls of our new workshop, and laying in the machinery. My
                        idea was to make so many guns. The Government asked for four times as many.
                        So we took down more houses, and built another much larger shop. The work
                        was finished in ten weeks. Five other large workshops were put up last year,
                        all built with lightning speed, and everywhere additions have been made to
                        the machinery in every department wherever it was possible to put
                        machines.’
                    As to their thousands of workmen, Mr. C. has no complaints to make. ‘They
                        have been steadily working anything from 60 to 80 hours per week; the
                        average is 64.29 hours per week, and the average time lost only 3.51 per
                        cent.’ A little while ago, a certain Union put forward a claim for an
                        advance in wages. ‘We had to decline it;
                        but as the meeting came to an end, the Trade Union Secretary said—“Of course
                        we are disappointed, and we shall no doubt return to the matter again. But
                        whether you concede the advance of wages or not, our members will continue
                        to do their level best, believing that they are not only working for
                        themselves alone, but helping the Government, and helping our soldiers to
                        wage this war to a successful conclusion.”’
                    And the manager adds his belief that this is the spirit which prevails ‘among
                        the work-people generally.’
                    Before we plunge into the main works, however, my guide takes me to see a
                        recent venture, organised since the war, in which he clearly takes a special
                        interest. An old warehouse bought, so to speak, overnight, and equipped next
                        morning, has been turned into a small workshop for shell
                        production—employing between three and four hundred girls, with the number
                        of skilled men necessary to keep the new unskilled labour going. These girls
                        are working on the eight-hours' shift system; and working so well that a not
                        uncommon wage among them—on piece-work of course—runs to somewhere between
                        two and three pounds a week. ‘But there is
                        much more than money in it,’ says the kind-faced woman-superintendent, as we
                        step into her little office out of the noise, to talk a little. ‘The girls
                        are perfectly aware that they are “doing their bit,” that they are standing
                        by their men in the trenches.’ This testimony, indeed, is universal. There
                        is patriotism in this grim work, and affection, and a new and honourable
                        self-consciousness. Girls and women look up and smile as a visitor passes.
                        They presume that he or she is there for some useful purpose, connected with
                        the war, and their expression seems to say—‘Yes, we are all in it!—we know
                        very well what we are doing, and what a difference we are
                        making. Go and tell our boys!’
                    The interest of this workshop lay, of course, in the fact that it was a
                        sample of innumerable others, as quickly organised and as efficiently
                        worked, now spreading over the Midlands and the North. As to the main works
                        belonging to the same great firm—such things have been often described; but
                        one sees them to-day with new eyes, as part of a struggle which is one with
                        the very life of England. Acres and acres of ground!—covered by huge 
                            work-
                            workshops
                         shops, new and old, by
                        interlacing railway lines, and moving trolleys. Gone is all the vast
                        miscellaneous engineering work of peace. The war has swallowed everything. I
                        have a vision, first, of a great building, where huge naval guns are being
                        lowered from the heating furnace above into the hardening oil tank below, or
                        where in the depths of a great pit, with lights and men moving at the
                        bottom, I see, as I stoop over the edge, a ‘jacket’ being ‘shrunk’ upon
                        another similar monster, hanging perpendicularly below me. Close by are the
                        forging-shops whence come the howitzers, and the huge naval shells. Watch
                        the giant pincers that lift the red-hot ingots and drop them into the
                        stamping presses. Man directs; but one might think the tools themselves
                        intelligent, like those golden automata of old that Hephaestus made, to run
                        and wait upon the gods of Olympus. Down drops the punch. There is a burst of
                        flame, as though the molten steel rebelled, and out comes the shell or the
                        howitzer in the rough, nosed and hollowed, and ready for the turning. The
                        men here are great, powerful fellows, blanched with heat and labour; amid
                        the flame and smoke of the forges one sees them as typical figures in the national struggle, linked to those
                        Dreadnoughts in the North Sea, and to those lines in Flanders and Picardy,
                        where Britain holds her enemy at bay. Everywhere the same intensity of
                        effort; whether in the men or in those directing them. And what delicate and
                        responsible processes! In the next shop, with its rows of shining guns, I
                        stop to look at a great gun apparently turning itself. No workman is visible
                        for the moment. The process goes on automatically, the bright steel emerging
                        under the tool that here too seems alive. Close to it is a man winding steel
                        wire, or rather braid, on a 15-inch gun; beyond again there are workmen and
                        inspectors, testing and gauging another similar giant. Look down this
                        shining tube and watch the gauging, now with callipers, now with a rubber
                        device which takes the impression of the rifling, and reveals any defect.
                        The gauging turns upon the ten-thousandth part of an inch, and any mistake
                        or flaw may mean the lives of men....
                    We turn out into a pale sunshine. The morning work is over, and the men are
                        trooping into the canteens for dinner—and we look in a moment to see for
                        ourselves how good a meal it is. At
                        luncheon, afterwards, in the Directors' offices, I am able to talk with the
                        leading citizens of the great town. One of them writes some careful notes
                        for me. Their report of labour conditions is excellent. ‘No organised
                        strikes and few cessations of work to report. Overtime is being freely
                        worked. Little or no drunkenness, and that at a time when the average
                        earnings of many classes of workmen are two or three times above the normal
                        level. The methods introduced in the twenty years before the war—conference
                        and discussion—have practically settled all difficulties between employers
                        and employed, in these parts, at any rate, during this time of England's
                        trial.’
                    After luncheon we diverge to pay another all too brief visit to a well-known
                        firm. The Managing Director gives me some wonderful figures of a new Shell
                        Factory they are just putting up. It was begun in September 1915. Since then
                        2000 tons of steelwork has been erected, and 200 out of 1200 machines
                        required have been received and fixed. Four to five thousand hands will be
                        ultimately employed. >All the actual production off the machines
                            will be done by women—and this although the works are intended for a heavy class
                        of shell—60-pounder High Explosive. Women are already shewing their
                        capacity—helped by mechanical devices—to deal with this large type of shell;
                        and the workshop when in full working order is intended for an output of a
                        million shell per annum.
                    I drive on, overshadowed by these figures. ‘Per annum’! The
                        little common words haunt the ear intolerably. Surely before
                            one more year is over, this horror under which we live will
                        be lifted from Europe!—Britain, a victorious Britain, will be at peace, and
                        women's hands will have something else to do than making high explosive
                        shell. But meanwhile, there is no other way. The country's call has gone
                        out, clear and stern, and her daughters are coming in their thousands to
                        meet it, from loom, and house, and shop.
                    A little later, in a great board-room, I find the Munitions Committee
                        gathered. Its function of course is to help the new Ministry in organising
                        the war-work of the town. In the case of the larger firms, the committee has
                        been chiefly busy in trying to replace labour withdrawn by the war. It has
                        been getting skilled men back from the
                        trenches, and advising the Ministry as to the ‘badging’ of munition workers.
                        It has itself, through its command of certain scientific workshops, been
                        manufacturing gauges and testing materials. It has turned the electro-plate
                        workshops of the town on to making steel helmets, and in general has been
                        ‘working in’ the smaller engineering concerns, so as to make them feed the
                        larger ones. This process here as everywhere is a very educating one. The
                        shops employed on bicycle and ordinary motor work have as a rule little idea
                        of the extreme accuracy required in munition work. The idea of working to
                        the thousandth of an inch seems to them absurd; but they have to learn to
                        work to the ten-thousandth, and beyond. The war will leave behind it greatly
                        raised standards of work in England!—that every one agrees. And I carry away
                        with me, as a last remembrance of this great town and its activities, two
                        recollections:—one of a University man doing some highly skilled work on a
                        particularly fine gauge—‘If you ask me what I have been doing for the last
                        few weeks, I can only tell you that I have been working like a nigger and
                        have done nothing! Patience!—that's all
                        there is to say.’ And another—of a ‘transformed’ shop of moderate size,
                        where an active and able man, after giving up the whole of his ordinary
                        business, has thrown himself into the provision, within his powers, of the
                        most pressing war needs, as he came across them. In July last year, for
                        instance, munitions work in many quarters was actually held up for want of
                        gauges. Mr. D. made something like 10,000, to the great assistance of
                        certain new Government shops. Then the Government asked for a particular
                        kind of gun. Mr. D. undertook 1000, and has already delivered 400. Tools for
                        shell-making are everywhere wanted in the rush of the huge
                        demand. Mr. D. has been making them diligently. This is just one example
                        among hundreds of how a great industry is adapting itself to the fiery needs
                        of war.
                    But the winter dark has come, and I must catch my train. As I speed through a
                        vast industrial district, I find in the evening papers hideous details of
                        the Zeppelin raid, which give a peculiar passion and poignancy to my
                        recollections of a crowded day,—and peculiar interest, also, to the talk of
                        an able representative of the Ministry of Munitions, who is travelling with me, and endeavouring to give me a
                        connected view of the whole new organisation. As he speaks, my thoughts
                        travel to the English battle line, to the trenches and casualty
                        clearing-stations behind it, to distant Russia; and I think of the Prime
                        Minister's statement in Parliament—that the supply of munitions, for all its
                        marvellous increase, is not yet equal to the demand. New shops, new
                            workers, new efforts—England is producing them now unceasingly; she must
                            go on producing them. There must be no pause or slackening. There will
                            be none.
                    I am going now to see—after the Midlands—what the English and Scotch north is
                        doing to swell the stream. And in my next letter there will be plenty to say
                        about ‘dilution’ of labour, about wages, and drink, and some other burning
                        topics of the moment.
                
            
            
                No. 3
                
                    (I)
                    It is now three months since Mr. Lloyd George made his startling speech, as
                        Munitions Minister, in the House of Commons in which, as he wound up his
                        review of his new department, he declared—‘unless we quicken our movements,
                        damnation will fall on the sacred cause for which so much gallant blood has
                        flowed.’ The passion of this peroration was like the fret of a river in
                        flood chafing at some obstacle in its course. Generally speaking, the
                        obstacle gives way. In this case Mr. George's obstacle had begun to give way
                        long before December 21st—the date of the speech. The flood had been pushing
                        at it with increasing force since the foundation of the Ministry of
                        Munitions in the preceding summer. But the crumbling process was not quick
                        enough for Great Britain's needs, or for the energy of her Minister.
                    Hence the outspoken speech of December 21st, supported by Mr. Asquith's grave
                            words of a few weeks later. ‘We cannot
                        go on,’ said the Prime Minister in effect—‘depending upon foreign countries
                        for our munitions. We haven't the ships to spare to bring them home, and the
                        cost is too great. We must make them ourselves.’ ‘Yes—and
                            quicker!’—Mr. Lloyd George had already said, with a sharp
                        emphasis, meant to ‘hustle’ that portion of the nation which still required
                        hustling; over-painting his picture, no doubt, but with quite legitimate
                        rhetoric, in order to produce his effect.
                    The result of that fresh ‘hustling’ was the appointment of the Dilution
                        Commissioners, a second Munitions Act amending the first, and a vast
                        expansion all over the country of the organisation which had seemed so vast
                        before. It was not till mid-winter, in the very midst of the new and immense
                        effort I have been describing, that the Minister of Munitions and those
                        working with him convinced themselves that, without another resolute push,
                        the barrier across the stream of the nation's will might still fatally hold
                        it back. More and more men were wanted every week,—in the Army and the
                        workshops—and there were not men to go
                        round. The second push had to be given—it was given—and it still firmly
                        persists.
                    In the spring of 1915, the executives of the leading Trade Unions had
                        promised the Government the relaxation of their trade rules for the period
                        of the war. Many of the Trade Union leaders—Mr. Barnes, Mr. Henderson, Mr.
                        Hodge, and many others, have worked magnificently in this sense. And many
                        Unions have been thoroughly loyal throughout their ranks to the pledge given
                        in their name. The iron-moulders, the ship-wrights, the brass-workers may be
                        specially mentioned. But in the trades mostly concerned with ammunition,
                        there were certain places and areas where the men themselves, as distinct
                        from their responsible leaders, offered a dogged, though often disguised
                        resistance. Personally, as I have already said, I think that anyone at all
                        accustomed to try and look at labour questions from the point of view of
                        labour, will understand the men while heartily sympathising with the
                        Minister, who was determined to get ‘the goods,’ and has succeeded in
                        getting them. Here, in talking of ‘the men,’ I except that small
                        revolutionary element among them, to which
                        I have once or twice referred, which has no country, and exists in all
                        countries. And I except, too, instances which certainly are to be found,
                        though rarely, of what one might call a purely mean and over-reaching temper
                        on the part of workmen—taking advantage of the nation's need, as some of the
                        less responsible employers have no doubt, also, taken advantage of it. But
                        in general, it seems to me, there has been an honest struggle in the minds
                        of thousands of workmen between what appears to them the necessary
                        protection of their standards of life—laboriously attained through long
                        effort—and the call of the war. And that the overwhelming majority of the
                        workmen concerned with munitions should have patriotically and triumphantly
                        decided this struggle as they have—under pressure, no doubt, but under no
                        such pressure as exists in a conscripted, still more in an invaded,
                        nation—may rank, I think, with the raising of our voluntary armies, as
                        another striking chapter in the book of ‘England's Effort.’
                    In this chapter, then, ‘Dilution’ will always take a leading place.
                    
                        What is ‘dilution’?
                    
                    It means, of course, that under the sharp
                        analysis of necessity, much engineering work, generally reckoned as
                        ‘skilled’ work, and reserved to ‘skilled’ workmen, by a number of union
                        regulations, is seen to be capable of solution into various processes, some
                        of which can be sorted out from the others as within the capacity of the
                        unskilled or semi-skilled worker. By so dividing them up, and using the
                        superior labour with economy, only where it is really necessary, it can be
                        made to go infinitely further; and the inferior or untrained labour can then
                        be brought into work where nobody supposed it could be used, where, in fact,
                        it never has been used.
                    Obvious enough, perhaps! But the idea had to be applied in haste to living
                        people—employers, many of whom shrank from reorganising their workshops and
                        changing all their methods at a moment's notice; and workmen, looking
                        forward with consternation to being outnumbered, by ten to one, in their own
                        workshops, by women. When I was in the Midlands and the North, at the end of
                        January and in early February, dilution was still an unsettled question in
                        some of the most important districts. One of the greatest employers in the
                        country writes to me to-day (March
                        24)—‘Since January, we have passed through several critical moments, but,
                        eventually, the principle was accepted, and dilution is being introduced as
                        fast as convenient. For this we have largely to thank an admirable
                        Commission—(Sir Croydon Marks, Mr. Barnes, and Mr. Shackleton) which was
                        sent down to interview employers and employed. Their tact and acumen were
                        remarkable. Speaking personally, I cannot help believing that there is
                            a better understanding between masters and men now than has existed in
                            my memory.’
                    A great achievement that!—for both employers and employed—for the Minister
                        also who appointed the Commission, and thus set the huge stone rolling yet
                        another leap upon its way.
                    It will be readily seen how much depends also on the tact of the individual
                        employer. That employer has constantly done best who has called his men into
                        council with him, and thrown himself on their patriotism and good sense. I
                        take the following passage from an interesting report by a very shrewd
                        observer, printed in one of the northern newspapers.* It describes an employer as
                        saying—‘I was * Yorkshire Observer, February 1, 1916. told by the Ministry that I should have to double
                        my output. Labour was scarce and I consulted a deputation of the men about
                        it. I told them the problem and said I should be glad of suggestions. I told
                        them that we should either have to get men or women, and I asked them for
                        their co-operation, as there would be a great deal of teaching to be done.
                        “Probably,” I said, “you would like to find the men?” They agreed to try. I
                        gave them a week, and at the end of a week they came to me and said they
                        would rather have women. I said to them—“Then you must all pull together.”
                        They gave me their word. Right from the beginning they have done their level
                        best to help, and things have gone on perfectly.’ On one occasion, a woman
                        complained that the man directing her was ‘working against her.’ ‘I called
                        the men's committee together,’ said the employer. ‘I told them the facts,
                        and they have dealt with the offender themselves.’
                    The general system now followed in the shell factories as I have already
                        described them, is to put so many skilled men in charge of so many lathes
                        worked by women workers. Each skilled man, who teaches the women, sets the tools, and keeps the machines in running
                        order, oversees eight, ten, or more machines. But sometimes the comradeship
                        is much closer. For instance—(I quote again the witness mentioned above)—in
                        a machine tool shop, i.e. a shop for the making of tools used
                        in shell production, one of the most highly skilled parts of the business,
                        you may now see a man with a woman to help him, operating two lathes. If the
                        woman falls into any difficulty, the man comes to help her. Both can earn
                        more money than each can earn separately, and the skilled man who formerly
                        worked the second lathe is released. In the same shop a woman watched a
                        skilled man doing slot-drilling—‘a process in which thousandths of an inch
                        matter’—for a fortnight. Now she runs the machine herself by day, while the
                        man works it on the night shift. One woman in this shop is ‘able to do her
                        own tool-setting.’ The observer thinks she must be the only woman
                        tool-setter in the country, and he drops the remark that her capacity and
                        will may have something to do with the fact that she has a husband at the
                        Front. Near by, as part of the same works, which are not specialised, but
                        engaged in general
                        engineering, is a bomb shop staffed by women, which is now sending 3000
                        bombs a week to the trenches. Women are also doing gun-breech work of the
                        most delicate and responsible kind under the guidance of a skilled overseer.
                        One of the women at this work was formerly a charwoman; she has never yet
                        broken a tool. All over the works, indeed, the labour of women and unskilled
                        men is being utilised in the same scientific way. Thus ‘the area of the
                        works has been doubled in a few months,’ without the engagement of a single
                        additional skilled man from outside. ‘We have made the men take an interest
                        in the women,’ say the employers. ‘That is the secret of our success. We
                        care nothing at all about the money, we are all for the output. If the men
                        think you are going to exploit the women and cheapen the work, the scheme is
                        crabbed right away.’
                    I myself came across the effect of this suspicion in the minds of the workmen
                        in the case of a large Yorkshire shell factory, where the employers at once
                        detected and slew it. This great workshop, formerly used for railway work,
                        now employs some 1300 women, with a small staff of skilled men. The women
                            work 45 hours a week in 8-hour
                        shifts—the men 53 hours on 12-hour shifts. There is no difficulty whatever
                        in obtaining a full supply of woman's labour—indeed the factory has now a
                        waiting list of 500. Nor has there been any difficulty with the men in
                        regard to the women's work. With the exception of two operations which are
                        thought too heavy for them, all the machines are run by women. But when the
                        factory began, the employers very soon detected that it was running below
                        its possible output. There was a curious lack of briskness in the work—a
                        curious constraint among the new workers. Yet the employers were certain
                        that the women were keen, and their labour potentially efficient. They put
                        their heads together, and posted up a notice in the factory to the effect
                        that whatever might be the increase in the output of piece-work, the
                        piece-work rate would not be altered. Instantly the atmosphere began to
                        clear, the pace of the machines began to mount. It was a factory in which
                        the work was new, the introduction of women was new, and the workers strange
                        to each other, and for the most part strange to their employers. A small
                        leaven of distrust on the part of the men
                        workers was enough, and the women were soon influenced. Luckily the mischief
                        was as quickly scotched. Men and women began to do their best, the output of
                        the factory—which had been planned for 14,000 shells a week—ran up to
                        30,000, and everything has gone smoothly since.
                    Let me now, however, describe another effect of ‘dilution’—the employment of
                        unskilled men on operations hitherto included in skilled
                        engineering.
                    On the day after the factory I have just described, my journey took me to
                        another town close by, where my guide—a Director of one of the largest and
                        best known steel and engineering works in the kingdom—shewed me a new shell
                        factory filled with 800 to 900 men, all ‘medically unfit’ for the Army, and
                        almost all drawn from the small trades and professions of the town,
                        especially from those which had been hard hit by the war. Among those I
                        talked to I found a keeper of bathing machines, a publican's assistant,
                        clerks, shop assistants, three clergy!—(these latter going home for their
                        Sunday duty, and giving their wages to the Red Cross)—unemployed architects,
                        and the like. I cannot recall any shop
                        which made a greater impression of energy—of a spirit behind the work, than
                        this shop. In its inspecting room I found a graduate from Yale. ‘I had to
                        join in the fight,’—he said quietly—‘this was the best way I could think
                        of.’ And it was noticeable besides for some remarkable machines, which your
                        country had also sent us. In other shell factories, a single lathe carries
                        through one process, interminably repeated, sometimes two, possibly three.
                        But here, with the exception of the fixing and drilling of the copper band,
                        and a few minor operations, one lathe made the shell—cut,
                        bored, roughed, turned, nosed, and threaded it, so that it dropped out, all
                        but the finished thing—minus, of course, the fuse. The steel pole introduced
                        at the beginning of the process made nine shells, and the average time per
                        shell was 23 minutes. No wonder that in the great warehouse adjoining the
                        workshop one saw the shell heaps piling up in their tens of thousands—only
                        to be rushed off week by week, incessantly, to the Front. The introduction
                        of these machines had been largely the work of an able Irish manager, who
                        described to me the intense anxiety with which he had watched their first
                        putting up and testing, lest the vast
                        expenditure incurred should have been in any degree thrown away. His
                        cheerful looks and the shell warehouse told the sequel. When I next met him
                        it was at a northern station in company with his Director. They were then
                        apparently in search of new machinery. The workshop I had seen was being
                        given over to women, and the men were moving on to heavier work. And this is
                        the kind of process which is going on over the length and breadth of
                        industrial England.
                    So far, however, I have described the expansion or adaptation of firms
                        already existing. But the country is now being covered with another and new
                        type of workshop—the National Shell Factories—which are founded, financed,
                        and run by the Ministry of Munitions. The English Government is now by far
                        the greatest engineering employer in the world. Let me take an illustration
                        from a Yorkshire town—a town where this Government engineering is rapidly
                        absorbing everything but the textile factories. A young and most competent
                        Engineer officer is the Government head of the factory. The work was begun
                        last July, by the help of borrowed lathes, in a building which had been used for painting railway
                        carriages; its first shell was completed last August. The staff last June
                        was one. It is now about 200, and the employees nearly 2500. A month after
                        the first factory was opened, the Government asked for another—for larger
                        shell. It was begun in August, and was in work in a few weeks. In September
                        a still larger factory—for still larger shells—(how these demands illustrate
                        the course of the war! how they are themselves illustrated by the history of
                        Verdun!) was seen to be necessary. It was begun in September, and is now
                        running. Almost all the machines used in the factory have been made in the
                        town itself, and about 100 small firms, making shell-parts—Fuses, Primers,
                        Gaines, etc.—have been grouped round the main firm, and are every day
                        sending in their work to the factory to be tested, put together, and
                        delivered.
                    No factory made a better impression upon me than this one. The large, airy
                        building with its cheerful lighting, the girls in their dark blue caps and
                        overalls, their long and comely lines reminding one of some processional
                        effect in a Florentine picture; the high
                        proportion of good looks—even of delicate beauty among them—the upper
                        galleries, with their tables piled with glittering brass work, amid which
                        move the quick trained hands of the women:—if one could have forgotten for a
                        moment the meaning of it all, one might have applied to it Carlyle's
                        description of a great school, as—‘a temple of industrious peace.’!
                            Some day, perhaps, this ‘new industry’—as our ancestors
                        talked of a ‘new learning’—this swift, astonishing development of industrial
                        faculty among our people, especially among our women, will bear other
                            and rich fruit for England under a cleared sky. It is impossible
                        that it should pass by without effect—profound effect—upon our national
                        life. But at present it has one meaning and one only—war! Talk
                        to these girls and women. This woman has lost her son—that one her husband.
                        This one has a brother home on leave, and is rejoicing in the return of her
                        husband from the trenches, as a skilled man, indispensable in the shop;
                        another has friends in the places and among the people which suffered in the
                        last Zeppelin raid. She speaks of it with tight lips. Was it she who chalked
                        the inscription found by the Lady 
                            Superin-
                            Superintendent
                         tendent on a lathe some nights
                            ago—‘Done fourteen to-day. Beat that if you can, you
                            devils!’ No!—under this fast-spreading industry, with its
                        suggestion of good management and high wages, there is the beat of no
                        ordinary impulse. Some feel it much more than others; but, says the clever
                        and kindly Superintendent I have already quoted—‘the majority are very
                        decidedly working from the point of view of doing something for their
                        country.... A great many of the fuse women are earning for the first
                        time.... The more I see of them all, the better I like them.’ And then
                        follow some interesting comments on the relation of the more educated and
                        refined women among them to the skilled mechanics—two national types that
                        have perhaps never met in such close working contact before. One's thoughts
                        begin to follow out some of the possible social results of this national
                        movement.
                
                
                    (II)
                    But now the Midlands and the Yorkshire towns are behind me. The train hurries
                        on through a sunny winter afternoon, and I look through some notes sent me
                        by an expert on the great campaign. Some of
                        them represent its ‘humours.’ Here is a perfectly true story, which shows an
                        Englishman with ‘a move on,’ not unworthy of your side of the water. A
                        father and son, both men of tremendous energy, were the chiefs of a very
                        large factory, which had been already extensively added to. The father lived
                        in a house alongside the works. One day business took him into a neighboring
                        county, whilst the son came up to London on munition work. On the father's
                        return he was astonished to see a furniture van removing the contents of his
                        house. The son emerged. He had already signed a contract for a new factory
                        on the site of his father's house; the materials of the house were sold, and
                        the furniture half gone. After the first shock, the father took it in true
                        Yorkshire fashion—wasting no words, and apparently proud of his son!
                    ...Here we are at last, in the true North—crossing a river, with a climbing
                        town beyond, its tiled roofs wreathed in smoke, through which the afternoon
                        lights are playing. I am carried off to a friend's house. Some Directors of
                        the great works I am come to see look in to make a kindly plan for the morrow, and in the evening, I find myself
                        sitting next one of the most illustrious of modern inventors, with that
                        touch of dream in manner and look which so often goes with scientific
                        discovery. The invention of this gentle and courteous man has affected every
                        vessel of any size afloat, whether for war or trade, and the whole
                        electrical development of the world. The fact was to be driven home even to
                        my feminine ignorance of mechanics when, a fortnight later, the Captain of a
                        Flagship and I were hanging over the huge shaft leading down to the
                        engine-rooms of the super-Dreadnought, and my companion was explaining to me
                        something of the driving power of the ship. But on this first meeting, how
                        much I might have asked of the kind, great man beside me, and was too
                        preoccupied to ask! May the opportunity be retrieved some day! My head was
                        really full of the overwhelming facts—whether of labour or of output,
                        relating to this world-famous place, which were being discussed around me. I
                        do not name the place because the banishment of names, whether of persons or
                        places, has been part of the plan of these articles. But one can no more
                        disguise it by writing round it, than one
                        could disguise Windsor Castle by any description that was not ridiculous.
                        Many a German officer has walked through these works, I imagine, before the
                        war, smoking his cigarette of peace with their Directors, and inwardly
                        ruminating strange thoughts. If any such comes across these few lines, what
                        I have written will, I think, do England no harm. But here are some of the
                        figures that can be given. The shop area of the ammunition shops alone has
                        been increased eightfold since the outbreak of war. The total
                        weight of shell delivered during 1915 was—in tons—fourteen times as much as
                        that of 1914. The weight of shell delivered per week, as between December
                        1914, and December 1915, has risen nearly ten times. The number of
                        workpeople, in these shops, men and women, had risen (a) as
                        compared with the month in which war broke out, to a figure eight times as
                        great; (b) as compared with December 1914, to one between three and
                        four times as great. And over the whole vast enterprise—shipyard, gun-shops,
                        ammunition shops, with all kinds of naval and other machinery used in
                        war—the numbers of workpeople employed had increased since 1913 more than
                        200 per cent. They with their families
                        equal the population of a great city—you may see a new town rising to meet
                        their needs on the further side of the river.
                    As to Dilution, it is now accepted by the men, who said when it was proposed
                        to them—‘Why didn't you come to us six months ago?’ and it is working
                        wonders here as elsewhere. For instance, a particular portion of the breech
                        mechanism of a gun used to take one hour and twenty minutes to make. On the
                        dilution plan it is done on a capstan and takes six minutes.
                        Where 500 women were employed before the war, there are now close on 9000,
                        and there will be thousands more, requiring one skilled man as tool-setter
                        to about nine or ten women. In a great gun-carriage shop, ‘what used to be
                        done in two years is now done in one month.’ In another, two tons of brass
                        were used before the war; a common figure now is twenty-one. A large milling
                        shop, now entirely worked by men, is to be given up immediately to women.
                        And so on.
                    ‘Dilution,’ it seems to me, is breaking down a number of labour conventions
                        which no longer answer to the real conditions of the engineering trades. The
                        pressure of the war is —one guesses—doing a
                        real service to both employers and employed by the simplification and
                        overhauling it is everywhere bringing about. As to the problem of what is to
                        be done with the women after the war, one may safely leave it to the future.
                        It is probably bound up with that other problem of the great new workshops
                        springing up everywhere, and the huge new plants laid down. One thinks of
                        the rapid recovery of French trade after the war of 1870, and of the far
                        more rapid rate—after forty years of machine and transport development—at
                        which the industry of the Allied countries may possibly recover the ravages
                        of the present war, when once peace is signed. In that recovery, how great a
                        part may yet be placed by these war workshops!—transformed to the uses of
                        peace; by their crowds of workpeople, and by the hitherto unused
                        intelligence they are everywhere evoking and training among both men and
                        women.
                    As for the following day, my impressions, looking back, seem to be all a
                        variant on a well-known Greek chorus, which hymns the amazing—the
                        ‘terrible’—cleverness of Man! Sea-faring, tillage, house-building,
                        horse-taming, so muses Sophocles, two thousand three hundred years ago; how did man ever find
                        them out? ‘Wonders are many, but the most wonderful thing is man! Only
                            against death has he no resource.’
                    Intelligence—and death! They are written everywhere
                        in these endless workshops, devoted to the fiercest purposes of war. First
                        of all, we visit the ‘danger buildings’ in the Fuse Factory, where mostly
                        women are employed. About 500 women are at work here, on different processes
                        connected with the delicate mechanism and filling of the fuse and gaine,
                        some of which are dangerous. Detonator work, for instance. The Lady
                        Superintendent selects for it specially steady and careful women or girls,
                        who are paid at time and a quarter rate. Only about eight girls are allowed
                        in each room. The girls here all wear—for protection—green muslin veils and
                        gloves. It gives them a curious ghastly look, that fits the occupation. For
                        they are making small pellets for the charging of shells, out of a
                        high-explosive powder. Each girl uses a small copper ladle to take the
                        powder out of a box before her and puts it into a press which stamps it into
                        a tiny block, looking like ivory. She holds her hand over a little tray of water lest any of the powder
                        should escape. What the explosive and death-dealing power of it is, it does
                        not do to think about. In another room a fresh group of girls are handling a
                        black powder for another part of the detonator, and because of the irritant
                        nature of the powder, are wearing white bandages round the nose and mouth.
                        There is great competition for these rooms, the Superintendent says! The
                        girls in them work on two shifts of 10½ hours each, and would resent a
                        change to a shorter shift. They have one hour for dinner, half an hour for
                        tea, a cup of tea in the middle of the morning—and the whole of Saturdays
                        free. To the eye of the ordinary visitor, at least, they show few signs of
                        fatigue.
                    After the Fuse Factory, we pass through the High Explosive Factory, where 250
                        girls are at work in a number of isolated wooden sheds filling 18-pounder
                        shell with high explosive. The brass cartridge case is being filled with
                        cordite—bundles of what look like thin brown sticks; and the shell itself,
                        including its central gaine or tube, with the various deadly explosives we
                        have seen prepared in the ‘danger buildings.’ The shell is fitted into the cartridge case, the primer and the
                        fuse screwed on. It is now ready to be fired. I stand and look at boxes of
                        shells, packed and about to go straight to the Front. A train is waiting
                        close by to take them the first stage on their journey. I little thought
                        then that I should see these boxes, or their fellows, next, on the endless
                        ranks of ammunition lorries behind the fighting lines in France, and that
                        within a fortnight I should myself stand by and see one of those shells
                        fired from a British gun, little more than a mile from Neuve Chapelle.
                    But here are the women and girls trooping out to dinner. A sweet-faced
                        Superintendent comes to talk to me. ‘They are not as strong as the men,’ she
                        says, pointing to the long lines of girls—‘but what they lack in strength
                        they make up in patriotic spirit.’—I speak to two educated women, who turn
                        out to be High School mistresses from a town that has been several times
                        visited by Zeppelins. ‘We just felt we must come and help to kill Germans,’
                        they say quietly. ‘All we mind is getting up at 5.30 every morning. Oh
                        no!—It is not too tiring.’
                    Afterwards?—I remember one long 
                            pro-
                            procession
                         cession of stately shops, with
                        their high windows, their floors crowded with machines, their roofs lined
                        with cranes, the flame of the forges and the smoke of the fizzling steel
                        lighting up the dark groups of men, the huge howitzer shells, red-hot,
                        swinging in mid air. Near by, the same shells, tamed and gleaming, on the
                        great lathes that rough and bore and finish them; and among them shell for
                        the Queen Elizabeth guns!—the biggest shell made. This shop had
                        been put up by good luck just as the war began. Its output of steel has
                        increased from 80 tons a week to 1040.
                    Then another huge fuse-shop, quite new, where 1400 girls in one shift are at
                        work—said to be the largest fuse-shop known. And on the following morning,
                        an endless spectacle of war-work—gun-carriages, naval turrets, torpedo
                        tubes, armoured railway carriages, small Hotchkiss guns for merchant ships,
                        tool-making shops, gauge shops—and so on for ever. In the tool shops the
                        output has risen from 44,000 to 3,000,000 a year!
                    And meanwhile I have not seen anything and shall not have time to see
                        anything of the famous shipyards of the firm. But with regard to them, all that it is necessary to
                        remember is that before the war they were capable of berthing twenty ships
                        at once, from the largest battleship downward; and we have Mr. Balfour's
                        word for it as to what has happened since the war in the naval shipyards of
                        this country. ‘We have added a million tons to the Navy—and we have
                            doubled its personnel.’
                    And now in connection with these works let me record two final sayings:—
                    One from a manager of a department:—‘We have a good many Socialists here, and
                        they constantly give trouble. But the great majority of the men have
                            done wonderfully. Some men have put in 100 hours a week since the
                        war began. Some have not lost a minute since it began. The old hands have
                        worked splendidly!’
                    And another from one of the Directors:—‘I know of no drunkenness among our
                        women. I don't remember ever having seen a drunken woman round here.’
                
                
                    (III)
                    Well! I have almost said my say on munitions, though I could continue the
                            story much longer. But the wonder of it
                        consists really in its vastness, in the steady development of a movement
                        which will not end or slacken till the Allies are victorious. Except for the
                        endless picturesqueness of the women's share in it, and the mechanical
                        invention and adaptation going on everywhere, with which only a technical
                        expert could deal, it is of course monotonous, and I might weary you. I will
                        only—before asking you to cross the Channel with me to France—put down a few
                        notes and impressions on the Clyde district, where, as our newspapers will
                        have told you, there is at the present moment (March 29th) some serious
                        labour trouble, with which the Government is dealing. Until further light is
                        thrown upon its causes, comment is better postponed. But I have spoken quite
                        frankly in these letters of ‘danger spots,’ where a type of international
                        Socialism is to be found, affecting a small number of men, over whom the
                        ideas of ‘country’ and ‘national honour’ seem to have no hold. Every country
                        possesses such men, and must guard itself against them. A nucleus of them
                        exists in this populous and important district. How far their influence is
                        helped among those who care nothing for
                        their ideas, by any real or supposed grievances against the employers, by
                        misunderstandings and misconceptions, by the sheer nervous fatigue and
                        irritation of the men's long effort, or by those natural fears for the
                        future of their Unions, to which I have once or twice referred, only one
                        long familiar with the district could say. I can only point out here one or
                        two interesting facts. In the first place, in this crowded countryside,
                        where a small minority of dangerous extremists appear to have no care for
                        their comrades in the trenches, the recruiting for the new Armies—so I learn
                        from one of the leading authorities—has been—‘taken on any basis
                        whatever—substantially higher than in any other district. The men came up
                        magnificently.’ That means that among those left behind, whatever disturbing
                        and disintegrating forces exist in a great Labour centre have freer play
                        than would normally be the case. A certain amount of patriotic cream has
                        been skimmed, and in some places the milk that remains must be thin. In the
                        second place—you will remember the employer I quoted to you in a former
                        letter—the work done here by thousands and thousands of workmen since the beginning of the war, especially in
                        the great shipyards, and done with the heartiest and most self-sacrificing
                        good will, has been simply invaluable to the nation, and England should
                        never forget what the work means. ‘Those who have nothing but
                        criticism for the men,’ writes an old resident on the Clyde, well acquainted
                        with all the conditions of work there, ‘ought to realise the exhausting
                        conditions, of noise from the hammers, and heat from the molten metal, i
                        which the men have worked their 50 to 100 hours a week, since August 1914.
                        In some of these yards it is rare to find a “riveter” who is not deaf for
                        life after 25, and sometimes earlier.’
                    And finally, the invasion of women has perhaps been more startling to the
                        workmen here than anywhere else. Not a single woman was employed in the
                        works or factories of the district before the war, except in textiles. There
                        will soon be 15,000 in the munition workshops, and that will not be the
                        end.
                    But Great Britain cannot afford—even in a single factory—to allow any
                        trifling at this moment with the provision of guns, and the Government
                        must—and will—act decisively.
                    
                    As to the drinking in this district of which so much has been said, and which
                        is still far in excess of what it ought to be, I found many people hard put
                        to it to explain why the restriction of hours which has worked so
                        conspicuously well in other districts has had comparatively little effect
                        here. Is it laxity of administration—or a certain ‘cussedness’ in the Scotch
                        character which resents any tightening of law? One large employer with whom
                        I discuss it believes it would suit the Scotch better to abolish all
                        restrictions, and simply punish drunkenness much more severely. And above
                        all—‘Open all possible means of amusement on Sundays!’—especially the
                        cinemas!—a new and strange doctrine even now, in the ears of a country that
                        holds the bones of John Knox. There seems indeed to be a terribly close
                        connection between the dulness of the Scotch Sunday and the obstinacy of
                        Scotch drinking; and when one thinks of the heavy toil of the week, of the
                        confinement of the workshops, and the strain of the work, one feels at any
                        rate that here is a problem which is to be solved, not preached
                        at; and will be solved, some day, by nimbler and humaner wits than ours.
                    
                    In any case, the figures, gathered a month ago from those directly concerned,
                        as to the general extension of the national effort here, could hardly be
                        more striking. In normal times, the district, which is given up to Admiralty
                        work, makes ships and guns, but has never made shells. The huge shell
                        factories springing up all over it are a wholly new creation. As usual, they
                        are filled with women, working under skilled male direction, and everywhere
                        one found among managers and superintendents the same enthusiasm for the
                        women's work. ‘It's their honour they work on,’ said one forewoman. ‘That's
                        why they stand it so well.’ The average working week is fifty-four hours,
                        but overtime may seriously lengthen the tale. Wages are high; canteens and
                        rest rooms are being everywhere provided; and the housing question is being
                        tackled. The rapidity of the women's piece-work is astonishing, and the
                        mingling of classes—the girls of education and refinement working quite
                        happily with those of a much humbler type—runs without friction under the
                        influence of a common spirit. This common spirit was well expressed by a
                        girl who before she came to the factory was
                        working a knitting-machine. ‘I like this better—because there's a
                            purpose in it.’ A frail-looking woman who was turning copper
                        bands for shell said to me ‘I never worked a machine before the war. I have
                        done 912 in ten hours, but that tired me very much. I can do 500 or 600
                        quite easily.’
                    On the same premises, after leaving the shell shops, we passed rapidly
                        through gun shops, where I saw again processes which had become almost
                        familiar. ‘The production of howitzers,’—said my guide—‘is the question of
                        the day. We are making them with great rapidity—but the trouble is to get
                        enough machines.’ The next shop, devoted to 18-pounder field guns, was
                        ‘green fields fifteen months ago,’ and the one adjoining it, a fine shed
                        about 400 feet square, for howitzer work, was started in August last, on a
                        site ‘which was a bog with a burn running through it.’ Soon ‘every foot of
                        space will be filled with machines, and there will be 1200 people at work
                        here, including 400 women. In the next shop we are turning out about 4000
                        shrapnel and 4000 high explosive shells per week. When we started women on
                        what we thought this heavy shell, we provided men to help lift the shell in and out of the machines.
                        The women thrust the men aside in five minutes!’
                    Later on, as I was passing through a series of new workshops occupied with
                        all kinds of army work and employing large numbers of women, I stopped to
                        speak to a Belgian woman. ‘Have you ever done any machine work before?’ ‘No,
                        Madame, never—Mais, c'est la guerre. Il faut tuer
                            les Allemands!’ It was a quite passionless voice; but one
                        thought, with a shiver, of those names of eternal infamy—of
                        Termonde—Aerschot—Dinant—Louvain.
                    It was with this woman's words in my ears, that I set out on my last visit—to
                        which they were the fitting prelude. The afternoon was darkening fast. The
                        motor sped down a river valley, sodden with rain and melting snow, and after
                        some miles we turn into a half-made road, leading to some new buildings, and
                        a desolate space beyond. A sentry challenges us, and we produce our permit.
                        Then we dismount, and I look out upon a wide stretch of what three months
                        ago was swamp, or wet plough land. Now its 250 acres are enclosed with
                        barbed wire, and patrolled by sentries
                        night and day. A number of small buildings—workshops, stores, etc.—are
                        rising all over it. I am looking at what is to be the great ‘filling’
                        factory of the district, where 9000 women, in addition to male workmen, will
                        soon be employed in charging the shell coming from the new shell factories
                        we have left behind in the darkness.
                    Strange and tragic scene! Strange uprising of women!
                    We regain the motor, and speed onwards, my secretary and I, through unknown
                        roads far away from the city and its factories towards the country house
                        where we are to spend the night. In my memory there surge a thousand
                        recollections of all that I have seen in the preceding fortnight. An England
                        roused at last—rushing to factory, and lathe, to shipyard and forge,
                        determined to meet and dominate her terrible enemy in the workshop, as she
                        has long since met and dominated him at sea, and will in time dominate him
                        on land—that is how my country looks to me to-night.
                    ... The stars are coming out. Far away, over what seems like water with
                        lights upon it, there are dim snowy
                        mountains—majestic—rising into the sky. The noise and clamour of the
                        factories are all quiet in the night. Two thoughts remain with me—Britain's
                        ships in the North Sea—Britain's soldiers in the trenches. And encircling
                        and sustaining both, the justice of a great cause; as these white Highland
                        hills look down upon and encircle this valley.
                
            
            
                
                No. 4
                
                    (I)
                    A million and a half of men—over a quarter of a million of
                            women—working in some 4000 State-controlled workshops for the supply of
                            munitions of war, not only to our own troops, but to those of our
                        Allies—the whole, in the main, a creation of six months' effort—this is the
                        astonishing spectacle, of some of the details of which, I have tried, as an
                        eye-witness, to give you in my previous letters a rapid and imperfect
                        sketch.
                    But what of the men, the armies for which these munitions are being made and
                        hurried to the fighting lines? It was at Aldershot, a few days ago, that I
                        listened to some details of the first rush of the new armies, given me by a
                        member of the Head Quarters Staff who had been through it all. Aldershot in
                        peace time held about 27,000 troops. Since the outbreak of war some million
                        and a quarter of men have passed through Aldershot, coming in ceaselessly
                        for training and equipment, and going out again to the theatres of war. In
                        the first days and weeks of the war—during and after the marvellous precision and rapidity with
                        which the Expeditionary Force was despatched to France—men poured in from
                        all parts, from all businesses and occupations, rich and poor, north and
                        south countrymen, English, Scotch, Irish, and Welsh; men from the Dominions,
                        who had flung themselves into the first home-coming steamer; men from India,
                        and men from the uttermost parts of Africa and Asia who had begged or worked
                        their way home. They were magnificent material. They came with set faces,
                        asking only for training, training, training!—and ‘what the peace soldier
                        learns in six months,’ said my companion, ‘they learnt in six weeks. We had
                        neither uniforms nor rifles, neither guns, nor horses for them. We did not
                        know how to feed them or to house them. In front of the Headquarters at
                        Aldershot, that Mecca of the soldier, where no one would dare to pass in
                        ordinary times whose turn-out is not immaculate, the most extraordinary
                        figures, in bowler hats and bits of uniform, passed unrebuked. We had to
                        raid the neighbouring towns for food, to send frantic embassies to London
                        for bread and meat; to turn out any sort of shed to house them. Luckily it was summer weather; otherwise I don't
                        know what we should have done for blankets. But nobody “groused.” Everybody
                        worked, and there were many who felt it the time of their lives.’
                    And yet England ‘engineered the war’! England's hypocrisy and greed demanded
                        the crushing of Germany—hence the lying ‘excuse’ of Belgium—that apparently
                        is what all good Germans—except those who know better—believe; what every
                        German child is being taught. As I listen to my companion's story, I am
                        reminded, however, of a puzzled remark which reached me lately, written just
                        before Christmas last, by a German nurse in a Berlin hospital, who has
                        English relations, friends of my own. ‘We begin to wonder whether it really
                        was England who caused the war—since you seem to be so dreadfully
                        unprepared!’ So writes this sensible girl to one of her mother's kindred in
                        England, in a letter which escaped the German censor. She might indeed
                        wonder! To have deliberately planned a Continental war with Germany, and
                        Germany's eight million of soldiers, without men, guns, or ammunition beyond
                        the requirements of an Expeditionary Force of 160,000 men, might have well become the State of Cloud
                        Cuckoo Land. But the England of Chatham, Pitt, and Wellington has not
                        generally been reckoned a nation of pure fools. 
                    The military camps of Great Britain tell the tale of our incredible venture.
                        ‘Great areas of land had to be cleared, levelled, and drained; barracks had
                        to be built; one camp alone used 42,000 railway truck loads of building
                        material.’ There was no time to build new railways, and the existing roads
                        were rapidly worn out. They were as steadily repaired; and on every side new
                        camps sprang up around the parent camps of the country.
                    The Surrey commons and woods, the Wiltshire downs, the Midland and Yorkshire
                        heaths, the Buckinghamshire hills have been everywhere invaded—their old
                        rural sanctities are gone. I walked in bewilderment the other day up and
                        down the slopes of a Surrey hill which when I knew it last was one kingdom
                        of purple heather, beloved of the honey-bees, and scarcely ever trodden by
                        man or woman. Barracks now form long streets upon its crest and sides;
                        practice-trenches, bombing-schools, the stuffed and dangling sacks for
                            bayonet training, musketry ranges, and
                        the rest are everywhere. Those happy children, whose wandering ground it
                        once was, would know it no more. And this camp is only one of a series which
                        spread far and wide round the Aldershot headquarters. 
                    Near my own home, a park and a wooded hill-side that two years ago were
                        carefully guarded even from a neighbour's foot, are now occupied by a large
                        town of military huts, which can be seen for miles round. And fifteen miles
                        away, in a historic ‘Chase’ where Catharine of Aragon lived while her trial
                        was proceeding in a neighbouring town, a duke, bearing one of the great
                        names of England, has himself built a camp housing 1200 men, for the
                        recruits of his county regiments alone, and has equipped it with every
                        necessary whether for the soldier's life or training. But
                            everywhere—as I have already said——East, North, South, and
                        West, the English and Scotch roads are thronged with soldiers and horses,
                        with trains of artillery waggons and Army Service lorries, with men marching
                        back from night attacks or going out to scout and skirmish on the
                        neighbouring commons, and through the most sacred game-preserves. There are no more trespass laws in England—for
                        the soldier. 
                    You point to our recruiting difficulties in Parliament. True enough. We have
                        our recruiting difficulties still. Lord Derby has not apparently solved the
                        riddle; for riddle it is, in a country of voluntary service, where none of
                        the preparations necessary to fit conscription into ordinary life, with its
                        obligations, have ever been made. The Government and the House of Commons
                        are just now wrestling with it afresh, and public opinion seems to be
                        hardening towards certain final measures that would have been impossible
                        earlier in the war.* The call is
                        still for men—more—and more men! And given the conditions of this war, it is
                        small wonder that England is restless till they are found. But amid the
                        cross currents of criticism, I catch the voice of Mr. Walter Long, the most
                        practical, the least boastful of men, in the House of Commons, a few nights
                        ago:—Say what you like, blame, criticise, as you like, but ‘what this
                            country has done
                        * Since these
                            lines were written the crisis in the Government, the Irish rising, and
                            the withdrawal of the first Military Service Bill have happened in quick
                            succession. The country is still waiting (April 28) for the last
                            inevitable step.
                        since August 1914, is an almost incredible story.’ And so it
                        is.
                    And now let us follow some of these khaki-clad millions across the seas,
                        through the reinforcement camps, and the great supply-bases, towards that
                        fierce reality of war to which everything tends.
                
                
                    (II)
                    It was about the middle of February, after my return from the munition
                        factories, that I received a programme from the War Office of a journey in
                        France which I was to be allowed to make for the purposes of these letters.
                        I remember being at first much dissatisfied with it. It included the names
                        of three or four places well known to be the centres of English supply
                        organisation in France. But it did not include any place in or near the
                        actual fighting zone. To me, in my ignorance, the places named mainly
                        represented the great array of finely equipped hospitals to be found
                        everywhere in France in the rear of our armies, and I was inclined to say
                        that I had no special knowledge of hospital work, and that one could see
                        hospitals in England, with more leisure to feel and talk with the sufferers in them than a ten days' tour
                        could give. A friendly Cabinet Minister smiled when I presented this view.
                        ‘You had better accept. You will find it very different from what you
                        suppose. The “back” of the Army includes everything.’ He was more than
                        right!
                    The conditions of travelling at the present moment, within the region covered
                        by the English military organisation in France, for a woman possessing a
                        special War Office pass in addition to her ordinary passport, and understood
                        to be on business which has the good will of the Government, though in no
                        sense commissioned by it, are made easy by the courtesy and kindness of
                        everybody concerned. From the moment of landing on the French side my
                        daughter and I passed into the charge of the military authorities. An
                        officer accompanied us; a War Office motor took us from place to place; and
                        everything that could be shown us in the short ten days of our tour was
                        freely open to us. The trouble, indeed, that was taken to enable me to give
                        some of the vividness of personal seeing to these letters is but one of many
                        proofs, I venture to think, of that warm natural wish in British minds that
                        America should understand why we are 
                            fight-
                            fighting
                         ing this war, and how we are
                        fighting it. As to myself, I have written in complete freedom, affected only
                        by the absolutely necessary restrictions of the military censorship; and I
                        only hope I may be able to shew something, however inadequately, of the work
                        of men who have done a magnificent piece of organisation, far too little
                        realised even in their own country.
                    For in truth we in England know very little about our bases abroad, about
                        what it means to supply the ever-growing needs of the English armies in
                        France. The military world takes what has been done for granted; the general
                        English public knows next to nothing about it. But the details of the
                        process, amazing to the mere spectator, are no less astonishing to the
                        expert. ‘It is a world of new problems, met by new solutions,’ said such an
                        expert, not an Englishman, discussing with me, after my return from France,
                        the great supply bases abroad, and the work of the various Corps and
                        Services connected with them—Army Service, Army Ordnance, Army Medical,
                        Railway and Motor Transport. ‘The British organisation in France, in support
                        of your fighting line,’ he added, ‘will have a profound influence on the
                        future of military education.’ There can
                        be no question that, during the past eighteen months, under the I.G.C.
                        (Inspector-General of Communications) it has developed some of the best and
                        keenest brains in the Army.
                    Two days spent, under the guidance of the Base Commandant, or an officer of
                        his staff, among the docks and warehouses of a great French port, among the
                        huts of its reinforcement camp, which contains more men than Aldershot
                        before August, 1914, or in its workshops of the Army Ordnance Corps, gave me
                        my first experience of the organising power that has gone to these
                        departments of the war. The General in command of the base was there in the
                        first weeks of the struggle and during the great retreat. He retired with
                        his staff to Nantes—leaving only a broken motor-car behind him!—just about
                        the time that the French Government betook itself to Bordeaux. But in
                        September he was back again, and the building-up process began, which has
                        since known neither stop nor stay. That the commercial needs of a great
                        French port should have been able to accommodate themselves as they have to
                        the military needs of the British Army speaks loudly for the tact and good feeling on both sides. The task has not
                        been at all times an easy one; and I could not help thinking as we walked
                        together through the crowded scene, that the tone and temper of the able man
                        beside me—his admiration, simply expressed, yet evidently profound, for the
                        French spirit in the war, and for the heroic unity of the country through
                        all ranks and classes, accounted for a great deal. In the presence of a good
                        will so strong, difficulties disappear. 
                    Look now at this immense hangar or storehouse—the largest in the
                        world—through which we are walking. It was completed three years before the
                        war, partly, it is said, by German money, to house the growing cotton-trade
                        of the port. It now houses a large proportion of the food of the British
                        Army. The hangar is half a mile long, and is bounded on one side by the
                        docks where the ships are discharging, and on the other by the railway lines
                        where the trains are loading up for the front. You walk through avenues of
                        bacon, through streets of biscuits and jam. On the quays just outside, ships
                        from England, Canada, Norway, Argentina, Australia are pouring out their
                        stores. Stand and watch the endless cranes
                        at work, and think what English sea-power means! And on the other side watch
                        the packing of the trucks that are going to the front, the order and
                        perfection with which the requisitions, large and small, of every regiment
                        are supplied. One thinks of the Crimean scandals. The ghost of Florence
                        Nightingale seems to move beside us, watching contentedly what has come of
                        all that long reforming labour, dealing with the health, the sanitation, the
                        food and equipment of the soldier in which she played her part; and one
                        might fancy the great shade pausing specially beside the wired-in space
                        labelled ‘Medical Comforts,’ and generally known as ‘The Cage.’ Medical
                            necessaries are housed elsewhere; but here are the
                        dainties, the special foods, the easing appliances of all kinds which are to
                        make life bearable to many a sorely wounded man. 
                    As to the huge sheds of the Army Ordnance Department, which supply everything
                        that the soldier doesn't eat, all metal stores—nails, horseshoes, oil-cans,
                        barbed wire—by the ton—trenching-tools, wheelbarrows, pickaxes, razors,
                        sandbags, knives, screws, shovels, picketing-pegs, and the like—they are
                            of course endless; and the men who
                        work in them are housed in one of the largest sheds, in tiers of bunks from
                        floor to ceiling. Perhaps the most interesting part of the Depôt to the
                        outsider, are the repairing sheds and workshops established in a suburb of
                        the town to which we drive on. For this is work that has never been done
                        before in connection with an Army in the field. Day by day, trains-full of
                        articles for repair come down from the Front. I happened to see a train of
                        the kind later on, leaving a station close to the fighting line. Guns,
                        rifles, range-finders, gun-carriages, harness, all torn and useless
                        uniforms, tents, boots by the thousand, come to this base to be repaired, or
                        to be sent home for transformation into ‘shoddy’ to the Yorkshire towns.
                        Nothing seems too large or too small for Colonel D.'s department.
                        Field-glasses, periscopes, water-bottles, they arrive from the trenches with
                        the same certainty as a wounded howitzer or machine-gun, and are returned as
                        promptly. In one shed, my guide called my attention to shelves on which were
                        a number of small objects in china and metal. ‘They were found in kits left
                        on the field,’ he says gently. ‘Wherever
                        we can identify the owner, such things are carefully returned to his people.
                        These could not be identified.’ I took up a little china dog, a bit of
                        coarse French pottery, which some dead father had bought, at Poperinghe,
                        perhaps, or Bailleul, for the children at home. Near by were ‘souvenirs,’
                        bits of shell, of German equipment; then some leaves of a prayer-book, a
                        neck-medallion of a saint—and so on—every fragment steeped in the poignancy
                        of sudden death —death in youth, at the height of life.
                    The boot and uniform sheds, where 500 French women and girls, under
                        soldier-foremen, are busy, the harness-mending room, and the engineering
                        workshops might reassure those pessimists among us—especially of my own
                        sex—who think that the male is naturally and incorrigibly a wasteful animal.
                        Colonel D. shows me the chart which is the record of his work, and its
                        steadily mounting efficiency. He began work with 140 men, he is now
                        employing more than a thousand, and his repairing sheds are saving thousands
                        of pounds a week to the British Government. He makes all his own power, and
                        has four or five powerful dynamos at work.
                    
                    We come out into a swirl of snow, and henceforward sightseeing is difficult.
                        Yet we do our best to defy the weather. We tramp through the deepening snow
                        of the great camp, which lines the slopes of the hills above the river and
                        the town, visiting its huts and recreation rooms, its cinema theatre, and
                        its stores, and taking tea with the Colonel of an Infantry Base Depôt, who
                        is to be our escort on the morrow. And on the last morning before we start
                        we mount to the plateau above the reinforcement camp, where the snow lies
                        deep, and the wind blows one of the sharpest blasts of the winter. Here are
                        bodies of men going through some of the last refinements of drill before
                        they start for the front; here are trenches of all kinds and patterns,
                        revetted in ways new and old, and planned according to the latest experience
                        brought from the fighting line. The instructors here, as at other training
                        camps in France, are all men returned from the Front. The men to whom they
                        have to give the final touch of training—men so near themselves to the real
                        thing—are impatient of any other sort.
                    As we stand beside the trenches under the bright sun and piercing wind,
                        looking at the dark lines of British
                        soldiers on the snow, and listening to the explanations of a most keen and
                        courteous officer, one's eyes wander, on the one side, over the great town
                        and port, over the French coast and the distant sea, and on the other side,
                        inland, over the beautiful French landscape with its farms and country
                        houses. Everything one sees is steeped in history, a mingled history, in
                        which England and France up to five centuries ago bore an almost equal
                        share. Now again they are mingled here, all the old enmities buried in a
                        comradeship that goes deeper far than they, a comradeship of the spirit,
                        that will surely mould the life of both nations for years to come.
                    How we grudged the snow and the sweeping clouds and the closed motor, on our
                        drive of the next day! I remember little more of it than occasional glimpses
                        of the tall cliffs that stand sentinel along the river, a hasty look at a
                        fine church above a steeply built town, an army lorry stuck deep in the snow
                        drifts, and finally the quays and ships of another Base port. Our escort,
                        Colonel S., pilots us to a pleasant hotel full of officers, mostly English,
                        belonging to the Lines of Communications,
                        with a few poor wives and mothers among them who have come over to nurse
                        their wounded in one or other of the innumerable hospitals of the Base.
                    Before dinner, the General Commanding the Base had found me out, and I had
                        told my story. ‘Oh, we'll put some notes together for you. We were up most
                        of last night. I dare say we shall be up most of this. But a little more or
                        less doesn't matter.’ I protested guiltily. But it is always the busiest men
                        who shoulder the extra burdens; and the notes duly reached me. From them,
                        from the talk of others spending their last ounce of brain and energy in the
                        service of the Base, and from the evidence of my own eyes, let me try and
                        draw some general picture of what that service is. Suppose a British officer
                        speaking:
                    ‘Remember first that every man, every horse, every round of ammunition, every
                        article of clothing and equipment, all the guns and vehicles, and nearly all
                        the food have to be brought across the English Channel to maintain and
                        reinforce the ever-growing British Army which holds now so important a share
                        of the fighting line in France. The ports of entry are already overtaxed by
                        the civil and military needs of France
                        herself. Imagine how difficult it is—and how the difficulty grows daily with
                        the steady increase of the British Army—to receive, disembark, accommodate,
                        and forward the multitude of men and the masses of material. You see the
                        khaki in the French streets, the mingling everywhere of French and English,
                        but the ordinary visitor can form no idea of the magnitude of this friendly
                        invasion. There is no formal delimitation of areas or spaces, in docks, or
                        town, or railways. But gradually the observer will realise that the town is
                        honeycombed with the temporary locations of the British Army, which
                        everywhere speckle the map hanging in the office of the Garrison Quarter
                        Master. And let him further visit the place, where the long lines of
                        reinforcement, training and hospital camps are installed on open ground, and
                        Old England's mighty effort will scarcely hide itself from the least
                        intelligent. Work, efficiency, economy—must be the watchwords
                        of a Base. Its functions may not be magnificent—but they are
                            war—and war is impossible unless they are rightly carried
                        out.
                    ‘When we came back from the Loire in September, after our temporary
                            retreat—the British personnel
                        at this place grew from 1100 to 11,000 in a week. Now there are thousands of
                        troops always passing through, thousands of men in hospital, thousands at
                        work in the docks and storehouses. And let any one who cares for horses go
                        and look at the Remount Depôt and the Veterinary Hospitals! The whole
                        treatment of horses in this war has been revolutionised. Look at the cheap
                        ingenious stables, the comfort produced by the simplest means, the kind,
                        quiet handling; look at the Convalescent Horse Depôts, the operating
                        theatres, and the pharmacy stores in the Veterinary hospitals.
                    ‘As to the troops themselves, every Regiment has its own lines for its own
                        reinforcements. Good food, clean cooking, civilised dining-rooms, excellent
                        sanitation—the Base provides them all. It provides, too, whatever else Tommy
                        Atkins wants, and close at hand; wet and dry canteens,
                        libraries, recreation huts, tea and coffee huts, palatial cinemas, concerts.
                        And what are the results? Excellent behaviour; excellent relations between
                        the British soldier and the French inhabitants; absence of all serious
                        crime.
                    ‘Then look at the docks. You will see there
                        armies of labourers, and long lines of ships, discharging horses, timber,
                        rations, fodder, coal, coke, petrol. Or at the stores and depôts. It would
                        take you days to get any idea of the huge quantities of stores, or of the
                        new and ingenious means of space-economy and quick distribution. As to the
                        Works Department—camps and depôts are put up “while you wait” by the R.E.
                        officers and unskilled military labour. Add to all this the armies of
                        clerks, despatch riders, and motor cyclists—and the immense hospital
                            personnel:—then, if you can make any intelligible picture of it
                        in your mind, you will have some idea of what Bases like these mean.’
                    Pondering these notes, it seemed to me that the only way to get some kind of
                        ‘intelligible picture’ in two short days was to examine something in detail,
                        and the rest in general. Accordingly we spent a long Sunday morning in the
                        Motor Transport Depôt, which is the creation of Colonel B., and perhaps as
                        good an example as one could find anywhere in France of the organising
                        talent of the able British officer. The depôt opened in a theatre on August
                        13, 1914. ‘It began,’ says Colonel B., ‘with a few balls of string and a bag
                            of nails!’ Its staff then consisted of
                        6 officers and 91 N.C.O.'s and men—its permanent staff at present is about
                        500. All the drivers of some 20,000 motor vehicles—nearly 40,000 men—are
                        tested here and, if necessary, instructed before going up to the fighting
                        lines; and the depôt deals with 350 different types of vehicles. In round
                        figures, 100,000 separate parts are now dealt with, stored, and arranged in
                        the depôt. The system of records and accounts is extraordinarily perfect,
                        and so ingenious that it seems to work itself.
                    Meanwhile Colonel B.'s relations with his army of chauffeurs, of whom about
                        1000 are always housed on the premises, are exceedingly human and friendly
                        in spite of the strictness of the army discipline. Most of his men who are
                        not married, the Colonel tells me, have found a ‘friend’ in the town, one or
                        other of its trimly dressed girls, with whom the English mechanic ‘walks
                        out,’ on Sundays and holidays. There are many engagements, and, as I gather,
                        no misconduct. Marriage is generally postponed till after the war, owing to
                        the legal and other difficulties involved. But marriage there will be when
                        peace comes. As to how the Englishman and
                        the French girl communicate, there are amusing speculations, but little
                        exact knowledge. There can be small doubt, however, that a number of hybrid
                        words perfectly understood by both sides are gradually coming into use, and
                        if the war lasts much longer, a rough Esperanto will have grown up which may
                        leave its mark on both languages. The word ‘narpoo’ is a case in point. It
                        is said to be originally a corruption of ‘il n'y a
                            plus’—the phrase which so often meets the Tommy foraging for
                        eggs or milk or fruit. At present it means anything from ‘done up’ to
                        ‘dead.’ Here is an instance of it, told me by a Chaplain at the Front. He
                        was billeted in a farm with a number of men, and a sergeant. All the men,
                        from the Chaplain to the youngest private, felt a keen sympathy and
                        admiration for the women of the farm, who were both working the land and
                        looking after their billetees, with wonderful pluck and energy. One evening
                        the Chaplain, arriving at the open door of the farm, saw in the kitchen
                        beyond it the daughter of the house, who had just come in from farm work.
                        She was looking at a pile of dirty plates and dishes, which had to be washed
                        before supper, and she gave a sigh of
                        fatigue. Suddenly in the back door on the other side of the kitchen appeared
                        the sergeant. He looked at the girl, then at the dishes, then again at the
                        girl. ‘Fattigay?’ he said cheerfully, going up to her. ‘Narpoo? Give 'em me.
                        Compree?’ And before she could say a word he had driven her away, and
                        plunged into the work.
                    The general relations, indeed, between our soldiers and the French population
                        could not be better. General after General, both in the Bases and at the
                        Front, dwelt on this point. A distinguished General commanding one of our
                        Armies on the line spoke to me of it with emphasis. ‘The testimony is
                        universal, and it is equally creditable to both sides.’ The French civilian
                        in town and country is, no doubt, profiting by the large demand and prompt
                        payments of the British forces. But just as in the case of the women
                        munition-workers, there is infinitely more in it than money. On the British
                        part there is, in both officers and men, a burning sympathy for what France
                        has suffered, whether from the outrages of a brutal enemy, or from the
                        inevitable hardships of war. The headquarters of the General I have
                        mentioned were not more than fifteen or
                        twenty miles from towns where unspeakable things were done by German
                        soldiers—officers no less than men—in the first weeks of the struggle. With
                        such deeds the French peasantry and small townsfolk, as they still remain in
                        Picardy and Artois, can and do contrast, day by day, the temper, the
                        courtesy, the humanity of the British soldier. Great Britain, of course, is
                        a friend and ally; and Germany is the enemy. But these French folk, these
                        defenceless women and children, know instinctively that the British Army,
                        like their own, whether in its officers, or in its rank and file, is
                        incapable, toward any non-combatant, of what the German Army has done
                        repeatedly, officially, and still excuses and defends.
                    The signs of this feeling for and sympathy with the French civils among our soldiers are many. Here is one
                        slight but illuminating story told me by an eye-witness. She is one of a
                        band of women under a noble chief, who, since very early in the war, have
                        been running a canteen for soldiers, night and day, at the large
                        railway-station of the very Base I have been describing, where trains are
                        perpetually arriving from and departing to the Front. In the early days of the war, a refugee train
                        arrived one afternoon full of helpless French folk, mainly of course women
                        and children, and old people, turned out of their homes by the German
                        advance. In general, the refugees were looked after by the French Red Cross,
                        ‘who did it admirably, going along the trains with hot drinks and food and
                        clothing.’ But on this occasion there were a number of small children, and
                        some of them got overlooked. In the hubbub, ‘I found a raw young Scotchman,
                        little more than a boy,’ belonging to a Highland regiment, with six
                        youngsters clinging to him, for whom he peremptorily demanded tea. ‘He had
                        tears in his eyes and his voice was all husky as he explained in homely
                        Scotch how the bairns had been turned out of their homes—how he
                            couldn't bear it—and he would give them tea.’ A table was
                        found. ‘I provided the milk, and he paid for bread and butter and chocolate,
                        and waited on and talked to the six little French people himself. Strange to
                        say, they seemed to understand each other quite well.’
                
                
                    (III)
                    It was with this railway-station canteen that my latest memories of the great
                        Base are concerned. All the afternoon of
                        our second day at — was spent in seeing a fine Red Cross hospital in the
                        town, and then in walking or driving round the endless reinforcement and
                        hospital camps in the open country. Everywhere the same vigourous expanding
                        organisation, the same ceaselessly growing numbers, the same humanity and
                        care in detail. ‘How many years have we been at war?’ one tends to ask
                        oneself in bewilderment, as the spectacle unrolls itself. ‘Is it possible
                        that all this is the work of eighteen months?’ And I am reminded of the
                        Scotch sergeant's reply to his German captive who asked his opinion about
                        the duration of the war. ‘I'll tell you what—it's the furrst five years
                        that'll be the worrst!’ We seem—in the Bases—to have slipped through them
                        already; measuring by any of the ordinary ratios of work to time. On my
                        return home, a diplomat representing one of the neutral nations, told me
                        that the Military Secretary on his staff had been round the English Bases in
                        France, and had come back with his ‘eyes starting out of his head.’ Having
                        seen them myself, the phrase seemed to me quite natural.
                    Then, last of all, as the winter evening fell, we turned toward the canteen at the railway
                        station. We found it going on in an old goods' shed, simply fitted up with a
                        long tea and coffee bar, tables and chairs, and some small adjacent rooms.
                        It was filled from end to end with a crowd of soldiers, who after many hours
                        of waiting, were just departing for the Front. The old shabby room, with its
                        points of bright light, and its shadowy sides and corners, made a
                        Rembrandtesque setting for the moving throng of figures. Some men were
                        crowding round the bar; some were writing letters in haste to post before
                        the train went off; the piano was going, and a few, gathered round it, were
                        singing the songs of the day, of which the choruses were sometimes taken up
                        in the room. The men—drafts going up to different regiments on the
                        line—appeared to me to come from many parts. The broad Yorkshire and
                        Cumbrian speech, Scotch, the Cockney of the Home Counties, the
                        Northumberland burr, the tongues of Devon and Somerset—one seemed to hear
                        them all in turn. The demands at the counter had slackened a little, and I
                        was presently listening to some of the talk of the indefatigable helpers who
                        work this thing night and day. One of them
                        drew a picture of the Canadians, the indomitable fighters of Ypres and Loos,
                        of their breathless energy, and impatience of anything but the quickest pace
                        of life, their appetites!—half a dozen hard-boiled eggs, at threepence each,
                        swallowed down in a moment of time; then of the French-Canadians, their
                        old-world French, their old-world Catholicism, simple and passionate. One of
                        these last asked if there was any chance of his being sent to Egypt. ‘Why
                        are you so anxious to go to Egypt?’—‘Because it was there the Holy Family
                        rested,’ said the lad, shyly. The lady to whom he spoke described to him the
                        tree and the Holy Well in St. Georgius, and he listened entranced.
                    Sometimes a rough lot fill the canteen, drawn from the poorest class,
                        perhaps, of an English seaport. They hustle for their food, shout at the
                        helpers, and seem to have no notion that such words as ‘please’ and ‘thank
                        you’ exist. After three or four hours of battling with such an apparently
                        mannerless crew, one of the helpers saw them depart to the platform where
                        their train was waiting for them, with very natural relief. But they were no
                        sooner gone, when a guardsman, with the
                        manners, the stature, and the smartness of his kind, came back to the
                        counter, and asked to speak to the lady in charge of it. ‘Those chaps, Miss,
                        what have just gone out,’—he said apologetically,—‘have never been used to
                        ladies, and they don't know what to say to them. So they asked me just to
                        come in and say for them they were very much obliged for all the ladies'
                        kindness, but they couldn't say it themselves.’ The tired helper was
                        suddenly too choky to answer. The message, the choice of the messenger, as
                        one sure to do ‘the right thing,’ were both so touching.
                    ... But there was a sudden movement in the crowd. The train was up. We all
                        surged out upon the platform, and I watched the embarkation—the endless
                        train engulfing its hundreds of men. Just as I had seen the food and
                        equipment trains going up from the first Base laden with everything
                        necessary to replace the daily waste of the Army, so here was the train of
                        human material, going up to replace the daily waste of men.
                        After many hours of travelling, and perhaps some of rest, these young
                        soldiers—how young most of them were!—would find themselves face to face with the sharpest realities of war.
                        I thought of what I had seen in the Red Cross Hospital that afternoon—‘what
                        man has made of man’—the wreck of youth and strength, the hideous pain, the
                        helpless disablement.
                    But the station rang with laughter and talk. Some one in the canteen began to
                        play ‘Keep the Home Fires burning’—and the men in the train joined in,
                        though not very heartily, for as one or two took care to tell me,
                        laughingly—‘That and “Tipperary” are awfully stale now!’ A bright-faced lad
                        discussed with D— how long the war would last—‘And shan't we
                        miss it when it's done!’ he said, with a jesting farewell to us, as he
                        jumped into the train which had begun to move. Slowly, slowly it passed out
                        of sight, amid waves of singing and the shouting of good-byes....
                    It was late that evening when after much talk with various officers, I went
                        up to my room to try and write, bewildered by a multitude of impressions.
                        Impressions of human energy, human intelligence, human suffering. What
                        England is doing in this country will leave, it seems to me, indelible marks
                        upon the national character. I feel a natural pride, as I sit thinking over the day, in all this
                        British efficiency and power, and a quick joy in the consciousness of our
                        fellowship with France, and hers with us. But the struggle at Verdun is
                        still in its first intensity, and when I have read all that the evening
                        newspapers contain about it there stirs in me a fresh and deeper realisation
                        of the meaning of what I have been seeing. In these great Bases, in the
                        marvellous railway organisation, in the handling of the vast motor transport
                        in all its forms, in the feeding and equipment of the British Army, we have
                        the scaffolding and preparation of war, which both in the French and English
                        Armies, have now reached a perfection undreamt of when the contest began.
                            But the war itself—the deadly struggle of that distant line
                        to which it all tends? It is in the flash and roar of the guns, in the
                        courage and endurance of the fighting man, that all this travail of brain
                        and muscle speaks at last. At that courage and endurance, women, after all,
                        can only guess—through whatever rending of their own hearts.
                    But I was to come somewhat nearer to it than I thought then. The morrow
                        brought surprise!
                
            
            
                
                No. 5.
                
                    (I)
                    Our journey farther north through the deep February snow was scarcely less
                        striking as an illustration of Great Britain's constantly growing share in
                        the war than the sight of the great supply Bases themselves. The first part
                        of it indeed led over solitary uplands, where the chained wheels of the
                        motor rocked in the snow, and our military chauffeur dared make no stop, for
                        fear he should never be able to start again. All that seemed alive in the
                        white landscape were the partridges—sometimes in great flocks—which scudded
                        at our approach, or occasional groups of hares in the middle distance,
                        holding winter parley. The road seemed interminably long and straight, and
                        ours were almost the first tracks in it. The snow came down incessantly, and
                        once or twice it looked as though we should be left stranded in the white
                        wilderness.
                    But after a third of the journey was over, the snow began to lessen and the
                        roads to clear. We dropped first into a
                        seaport town which offered much the same mingled scene of French and
                        English, of English nurses, and French poilus, of unloading ships, and British soldiers, as the
                        bases we had left, only on a smaller scale. And beyond the town we climbed
                        again on to the high land, through a beautiful country of interwoven downs,
                        and more plentiful habitation. Soon, indeed, the roads began to show the
                        signs of war:—a village or small town, its picturesque market-place filled
                        with a park of artillery waggons; roads lined with motor lorries with the
                        painted shell upon them that tells ammunition; British artillerymen in
                        khaki, bringing a band of horses out of a snow-bound farm; closed motor-cars
                        filled with officers hurrying past; then an open car with King's Messengers,
                        tall soldierly figures, looking in some astonishment at the two ladies, as
                        they hurry by. And who or what is this horseman looming out of the
                        sleet?—like a figure from a piece of Indian or Persian embroidery; turbaned
                        and swarthy, his cloak swelling out round his handsome head and shoulders,
                        the buildings of a Norman farm behind him? ‘There are a few Indian cavalry
                        about here,’ says our guide —‘they are
                        billeted in the farms.’ And presently the road is full of them. Their
                        Eastern forms, their dark, intent faces pass strangely through the Norman
                        landscape.
                    Now we are only some forty miles from the line, and we presently reach
                        another town containing an important headquarters, where we are to stop for
                        luncheon. The inn at which we put up is like the song in Twelfth
                            Night, ‘old and plain’—and when lunch is done, our Colonel goes
                        to pay an official call at Headquarters, and my daughter and I make our way
                        to the historic church of the town. The Colonel joins us here with another
                        officer who brings the amazing news that G.H.Q. (General Headquarters)—that
                        mysterious centre and brain of all things—invites us for two days! If we
                        accept, an officer will come for us on the morning of March 1st to our hotel
                        in —, and take us by motor, some forty miles, to the guest-house where
                        G.H.Q. puts up its visitors.
                    ‘Accept’! Ah, if one could only forget for a moment the human
                        facts behind the absorbing interest and excitement of this journey, one
                        might be content to feel only the stir of quickened pulses, of gratitude for
                        a further opportunity so tremendous. As it
                        was, I saw all the journey henceforward with new eyes, because of that to
                        which it was bringing us.
                    On we sped, through the French countryside, past a great forest lying black
                        on the edge of the white horizon—(I open my map and find it marked Bois de
                        Crécy!)—past another old town, with Agincourt a few miles to the east; and
                        so into a region of pine and sand that borders the sea. Darkness comes down,
                        and we miss our way. What are these lines of light among the pinewoods?
                        Another military and hospital camp, which we are to see on the morrow—so we
                        discover at last. But we have overshot our goal, and must grope our way back
                        through the pinewoods to the sea-shore, where a little primitive hotel,
                        built for the summer, with walls that seem to be made of brown paper,
                        receives us. But we have motored far that day and greet it joyfully....
                    The following morning we woke to a silvery sunlight, with, at last, some
                        promise of spring over a land cleared of snow. The day was spent in going
                        through a camp which has been set down in one of the pleasantest and
                        healthiest spots of France, a favourite haunt of French artists before the war. Now the sandy
                        slopes, whence the pines, alack, have been cut away, are occupied by a
                        British reinforcement camp, by long lines of hospitals, by a convalescent
                        depôt, and by the training-grounds, where, as at other bases, the newly
                        arrived troops are put through their last instruction before going to the
                        Front. As usual, the magnitude of what has been done in one short year
                        filled one with amazement. Here is the bare catalogue: Infantry base depôts,
                            i.e. sleeping and mess quarters for thousands of men
                        belonging to the new armies; sixteen hospitals with 21,000 beds; three rifle
                        ranges; two training-camps; a machine-gun training-school; a vast laundry
                        worked by French women, under British organisation, which washes for
                            all the hospitals, 30,000 pieces a day; recreation huts of
                        all types and kinds, official and voluntary; a cinema theatre, seating 800
                        men, with performances twice a day; nurses' clubs; officers' clubs; a supply
                        depôt for food; an Ordnance depôt for everything that is not food; new
                        sidings to the railway, where 1000 men can be entrained on the one side,
                        while 1000 men are detraining on the other, or two full ambulance trains can come in and go out; a
                        convalescent depôt of 2000 patients, and a convalescent horse depôt of 2000
                        horses!—etcetera. And this is the work accomplished since last April in one
                        camp.
                    Yet, as I look back upon it, my chief impression of that long day is an
                        impression, first, of endless hospital huts and marquees with their rows of
                        beds, in which the pale or flushed faces are generally ready—unless pain or
                        weariness forbid—as visitor ventures timidly near, to turn and smile in
                        response to the few halting words of sympathy or enquiry which are all one
                        can find to say; and, next, of such a wealth of skill, and pity and devotion
                        poured out upon this terrible human need, as makes one thank God for doctors
                        and nurses, and bright-faced V.A.D.'s. After all, one tremblingly asks
                        oneself, in spite of the appalling facts of wounds, and death, and violence
                        in which the human world is now steeped, is it yet possible, is
                        it yet true, that the ultimate thing—the final power behind the
                        veil—to which at least this vast linked spectacle of suffering and
                        tenderness, here in this great camp, testifies—is not Force,
                        but Love? Is this the mysterious message which seems to breathe from these crowded wards—to make them
                        just bearable?
                    Let me recollect the open door of an operating theatre, and a young officer,
                        quite a boy, lying there with a bullet in his chest, which the surgeons were
                        just about to try and extract. The fine, pale features of the wounded man,
                        the faces of the surgeon and the nurses, so intent and cheerfully absorbed,
                        the shining surfaces and appliances of the white room—stamp themselves on
                        memory. I recollect, too, one John S—, a very bad case, a private. ‘Oh you
                        must come and see John S—,’ says one of the Sisters. ‘We get all the little
                        distractions we can for John.’ ‘Will he recover?’ ‘Well, we thought
                        so—but’—her face changes gravely—‘John himself seems to have made up his
                        mind lately. He knows—but he never complains.’
                    Knows what? We go to see him, and he turns round philosophically from his
                        tea. ‘Oh, I'm all right—a bit tired—that's all.’ And then a smile passes
                        between him and his nurse. He has lost a leg, he has a deep wound in his
                        back which won't heal, which is draining his life away—poor, poor John S—! Close by is a short plain man with a
                        look of fevered and patient endurance that haunts one now to think of. ‘It's
                        my eyes. I'm afraid they're getting worse. I was hit in the head, you see.
                        Yes, the pain's bad—sometimes.’ The nurse looks at him anxiously as we pass,
                        and explains what is being tried to give relief.
                    This devotion of the nurses—how can one ever say enough of it! I recall the
                        wrath of a medical officer in charge of a large hospital at Rouen. ‘Why
                        don't they give more Red Crosses to the working nurses? They
                        don't get half enough recognition. I have a nurse here who has been twelve
                        months in the operating theatre. She ought to have a V.C.! It's worth it.’
                        And here is a dark-eyed young officer who had come from a distant colony to
                        fight for England. I find him in an officers' hospital established not long
                        after the war broke out, in a former Casino where the huge Baccarat room has
                        been turned into two large and splendid wards. He is courteously ready to
                        talk about his wound, but much more ready to talk about his Sister. ‘It's
                        simply wonderful what they do for us!’ he says, all his face
                        lighting up— ‘when I was worst there
                        wasn't an hour in the day or night my Sister wasn't ready to try anything in
                        the world to help me. But they're all like that.’
                    Twenty thousand wounded!—while every day the ambulance trains come and go
                        from the Front, or to other bases—there to fill up one or other of the
                        splendid hospital ships that take our brave fellows back to England, and
                        home, and rest. And this city of hospitals, under its hard-pressed medical
                        Chief, with all its wealth of scientific invention, and pain-saving device,
                        and unremitting care, with its wonderful health and recovery statistics, has
                        been the growth of just twelve months. The mind wavers between the two
                        impressions—the hideous havoc of war, on the one hand; the power of the
                        human brain, and the magical energies of human feeling on the other.
                
                
                    (II)
                    It was late on the 29th of February that we reached our next resting-place,
                        to find a kind greeting from another Base-Commandant and final directions
                        for our journey of the morrow. We put up
                        at one of the old commercial inns of the town (it is not easy to find hotel
                        quarters of any kind just now, when every building at all suitable has been
                        pressed into the hospital service)—and I found delight in watching the
                        various types of French officers, naval and military, who came in to the
                            table d'hôte, plunging as soon as they
                        had thrown off their caps and cloaks, and while they waited for their
                            consommé, into the papers with the
                        latest news of Verdun. But we were too tired to try and talk! The morning
                        came quickly, and with it our escort from G.H.Q. We said good-bye to Colonel
                        S., who had guided our journey so smoothly through all the fierce drawbacks
                        of the weather, and made friends at once with our new guide, the staff
                        officer who deals with the guests of G.H.Q. Never shall I forget that
                        morning's journey! I find in my notes:—
                    ‘A beautiful drive—far more beautiful than I had expected; over undulating
                        country, with distant views of interlocking downs, and along typical French
                        roads, tree- or forest-bordered, running straight as a line up hill and down
                        hill, over upland and plain. One exquisite point of view especially comes back to me, where a road to the
                        coast—that coast which the Germans so nearly reached!—diverged upon our
                        left, and all the lowlands westward came into sight. It was pure Turner:—the
                        soft sunlight of the day, with its blue shadows, and pale blue sky; the
                        yellow chalk hills, still marked with streaks of snow; the woods, purple and
                        madder brown; the distances aetherially blue; and the villages, bare and
                        unlovely, compared with the villages of Kent and Sussex, but expressing a
                        strong, old, historic life, sprung from the soil, and one with it. The first
                        distant glimpse, as we turned a hill-corner, of the old town which was our
                        destination,—extraordinarily fine!—its ancient church a towered mass of
                        luminous grey under the sunshine, gathering the tiled roofs into one
                        harmonious whole.’
                    But we avoided the town itself and found ourselves presently descending an
                        avenue of trees to the eighteenth-century château, which is used by G.H.Q.
                        as a hostel for its guests—allied and neutral correspondents, military
                        attachés, special missions, and the like. In a few minutes I was standing,
                        bewildered by the strangeness and the interest of it all, in a charming
                        Louis-Quinze room, plain and simple, in
                        the true manner of the genuine French country house, but with graceful
                        panelled walls, and old armoire of the
                        date, windows wide open to the spring sun, and a half-wild garden outside. A
                            femme de ménage, much surprised to be
                        waiting on two ladies, comes to look after us. And this is France!—and we
                        are only thirty miles from that fighting-line, which has drawn our English
                        hearts to it all these days!
                    A map is waiting for each of us downstairs, and we are told roughly where it
                        is proposed to take us. A hurried lunch, and we are in the motor again, with
                        Captain — sitting in front. ‘You have your passes?’ he asks us, and we
                        anxiously verify the new and precious papers that brought us from our last
                        stage, and will have to be shewn on our way. We drive first to Arques, and
                        Hazebrouck, then south-east. At a certain village we call at the Divisional
                        Headquarters. The General comes out himself, and proposes to guide us on—‘I
                        will take you as near to the fighting line as I can.’
                    On we went in two motors; the General with me, Captain — and D. following. We
                        passed through three villages and after the first we were within shell range
                        of the German batteries ahead. But I
                        cannot remember giving a thought to the fact, so absorbing to the
                        unaccustomed eye were all the accumulating signs of the actual battle-line;
                        the endless rows of motor lorries, either coming back from, or going up to
                        the Front, now with food, now with ammunition; reserve-trenches to right and
                        left of the road; a ‘dump’ or food-station, whence carts filled from the
                        heavy lorries go actually up to the trenches; lines of artillery waggons,
                        parks of ammunition, or motor-ambulances, long lines of picketed horses,
                        motor cyclists dashing past. In one village we saw a merry crowd in the
                        little place gathered round a field
                        kitchen whence came an excellent fragrance of good stew. A number of the men
                        were wearing leeks in their ears for St. David's Day. ‘You're Welsh, then?’
                        I said to one of the cooks—(by this time we had left the motor and were
                        walking). ‘I'm not!’ said the little fellow, with a laughing look. ‘It's St.
                        Patrick's Day I'm waitin' for! But I've no objection to givin' St. David a
                        turn!’ He opened his kitchen to show me the good things going on, and as we
                        moved away there came up a marching platoon of men from the trenches, who
                            had done their allotted time there,
                        and were coming back to billets. The General went to greet them. ‘Well, my
                        boys!—you could stick it all right?’ It was good to see the lightening on
                        the tired faces, and to watch the group disappear into the cheerful hubbub
                        of the village.
                    We walked on, and outside the village I heard the guns for the first time. We
                        were now ‘actually in the battle,’ according to my companion, and a shell
                        was quite possible though not probable. Again, I can't remember that the
                        fact made any impression upon us. We were watching now parties of men at
                        regular intervals, sitting waiting in the fields beside the road, with their
                        rifles and kits on the grass near them. They were waiting for the signal to
                        move up toward the firing-line as soon as the dusk was further advanced. ‘We
                        shall meet them later,’ said the General—‘as we come back.’ At the same
                        moment he turned to address a young artillery officer in the road. ‘Is your
                        gun near here?’ ‘Yes, sir, I was just going back to it.’ He was asked to
                        show us the way. As we followed I noticed the white puff of a shell, far
                        ahead, over the flat, ditch-lined fields; a captive balloon was making observations about half a mile in front;
                        and an aeroplane passed over our heads. ‘Ah, not a Boche,’ said Captain —
                        regretfully. ‘But we brought a Boche down here yesterday, just over this
                        village—a splendid fight.’
                    Meanwhile, the artillery fire was quickening. We reached a ruined village
                        from which all normal inhabitants had been long since cleared away. The
                        shattered church was there, and I noticed a large crucifix quite intact
                        still hanging on its chancel wall. A little farther and the boyish artillery
                        officer, our leader, who had been by this time joined by a comrade, turned
                        and beckoned to the General. Presently we were creeping through seas of mud
                        down into the gun emplacement, so carefully concealed that no aeroplane
                        overhead could guess it. There it was—how many of its fellows I had seen in
                        the Midland and northern workshops!—its muzzle just shewing in the dark, and
                        nine or ten high explosive shells lying on the bench in front of the breech.
                        One is put in. We stand back a little, and a sergeant tells me to put my
                        fingers in my ears and look straight at the gun. Then comes the shock—not so
                        violent as I had expected—and the
                        cartridge case drops out. The shell has sped on its way to the German
                        trenches—with what result to human flesh and blood? But one did not think of
                        that—till afterwards. At the time, the excitement of the shot and of
                        watching that little group of men in the darkness held all one's nerves
                        gripped.
                    In a few more minutes we were scrambling out again through the deep muddy
                        trench leading to the dug-out, promising to come back to tea with the
                        officers, in their billet, when our walk was done. Now indeed we were ‘in
                        the battle.’ Our own guns were thundering away behind us, and the road was
                        more and more broken up by shell-holes. ‘Look at that group of trees to your
                        left—beyond it is Neuve Chapelle,’ said our guide. ‘And you see those ruined
                        cottages, straight ahead—and the wood behind?’ He named a wood thrice famous
                        in the history of the war. ‘Our lines are just beyond the cottages, and the
                        German lines just in front of the wood.’ ‘How far are we from them?’
                        ‘Three-quarters of a mile.’ It was discussed whether we should be taken
                        zigzag through the fields to the entrance of the communications-trench. But the firing was getting hotter, and Captain
                        — was evidently relieved when we elected to turn back. Shall I always regret
                        that lost opportunity? You did ask me to write something about ‘the life of
                        the soldiers in the trenches’—and that was the nearest that any woman could
                        personally have come to it! But I doubt whether anything more—anything, at
                        least, that was possible—could have deepened the whole effect. We had been
                        already nearer than any woman, even a nurse, has been, in this war, to the
                        actual fighting on the English line; and the cup of impressions was
                        full.
                    As we turned back, I noticed a little ruined cottage, with a Red Cross flag
                        floating. Our guide explained that it was a Field Dressing station. Some
                        serious ‘casualities’ had been brought there the night before, and had not
                        yet been removed. It was not for us—who could not help—to ask to go in. But
                        the thought of it pursued me as we walked on through the beautiful evening.
                        A little further, we came across what, I think, moved me more than anything
                        else in that crowded hour—those same companies of men we had seen sitting
                        waiting in the fields, now marching quietly, spaced one behind the other, up to the trenches, to take
                        their turn there. Every day I am accustomed to see bodies, small and large,
                        of khaki-clad men, marching through these Hertfordshire lanes. But this was
                        different. The bearing was erect and manly, the faces perfectly cheerful;
                        but there was the seriousness in them of men who knew well the work to which
                        they were going. I caught a little quiet whistling sometimes, but no
                        singing. We greeted them as they passed, with a shy ‘Good luck!’—and they
                        smiled shyly back, surprised, of course, to see a couple of women on that
                        road. But there was no shyness towards the General. It was very evident that
                        the relations between him and them were as good as affection and confidence
                        on both sides could make them.
                    I still see the bright tea-table in that corner of a ruined farm, where our
                        young officers presently greeted us; the General marking our maps to make
                        clear where he had actually been; the Captain of the battery springing up to
                        shew off his gramophone; while the guns crashed at intervals close beside
                        us—range-finding, probably—searching out a portion of the German line, under
                        the direction of some hidden observer with
                        his telephone. It was over all too quickly. Time was up, and soon the motor
                        was speeding back towards the Divisional Headquarters. The General and I
                        talked of war, and what could be done to stop it. A more practical religion,
                        ‘lifting mankind again’?—a new St. Francis, preaching the old things in new
                        ways? ‘But in this war we had and have no choice. We are fighting for
                        civilisation and freedom, and we must go on till we win.’
                
                
                    (III)
                    It was long before I closed my eyes in the pretty room of the old château,
                        after an evening spent in talk with some officers of the Headquarters Staff.
                        When I woke in the dawn I little guessed what the day (March 2nd) was to
                        bring forth, or what was already happening, thirty miles away on the firing
                        line. Zélie, the femme de ménage, brought
                        us our breakfast to our room, coffee and bread and eggs, and by half-past
                        nine we were downstairs, booted and spurred, to find the motor at the door,
                        a simple lunch being packed up, and gas-helmets got ready! ‘We have had a
                        very successful action this morning,’ said
                        Captain —, evidently in the best of spirits. ‘We have taken back some
                        trenches on the Ypres-Comines canal that we lost a little while ago, and
                        captured 200 prisoners. If we go off at once, we shall be in time to see the
                        German counter-attack.’
                    It was again fine, though not bright, and the distances far less clear. This
                        time we struck north-east, passing first the sacred region of G.H.Q. itself,
                        where we shewed our passes. Then after making our way through roads lined
                        interminably, as on the previous day, with the splendid motor lorries laden
                        with food and ammunition, which have made such a new thing of the transport
                        of this war, interspersed with rows of ambulances and limbered waggons, with
                        flying-stations and horse lines, we climbed a hill to one of the finest
                        positions in this northern land; an old town, where Gaul and Roman, Frank
                        and Fleming, English and French have clashed; which looks out northward
                        towards Yser and Dunkirk, and east towards Ypres. Now, if the mists will
                        only clear, we shall see Ypres! But, alas, they lie heavy over the plain,
                        and we descend the hill again without that vision. Now we are bound for
                        Poperinghe, and must go warily, because
                        there is a lively artillery action going on beyond Poperinghe, and it is
                        necessary to find out what roads have been shelled. On the way we stop at an
                        air station, to watch the aeroplanes rising and coming down, and at a point
                        near Poperinghe we go over a casualty-clearing station—a collection of
                        hospital huts, with store-houses and staff quarters—with the medical officer
                        in charge. Here were women nurses, who are not allowed in the Field
                        dressing-stations nearer the line. There were not many wounded, though they
                        were coming in, and the Doctor was not for the moment very busy. We stood on
                        the threshold of a large ward, where we could not, I think, be seen. At the
                        farther end a serious case was being attended by nurses and surgeons.
                        Everything was passing in silence; and to me it was as if there came from
                        the bowed heads of the distant group a tragic and wordless message. Then, as
                        we passed lingeringly away, we saw three young officers, all wounded,
                            running up from the ambulance at the gate, which had just
                        brought them, and disappearing into one of the wards. The first—a splendid
                        kilted figure—had his head bound up, the others were apparently wounded in the arm. But they seemed to walk on
                        air, and to be quite unconscious that anything was wrong with them. It had
                        been a success, a great success, and they had been in it!
                    The ambulances were now arriving fast from the field dressing-stations close
                        to the line; we hurried away, and were soon driving through Poperinghe. Here
                        and there there was a house wrecked with shell-fire. The little town indeed
                        with its picturesque place is constantly
                        shelled. But all the same, life seems to go on as usual. The Poperinghe boy,
                        like his London brother, hangs on the back of carts; his father and mother
                        come to their door to watch what is going on, or to ask eagerly for news of
                        the counter-attack; and his little brothers and sisters go tripping to
                        school, in short cloaks with the hoods drawn over their heads, as though no
                        war existed. Here and in the country round, poor robbed Belgium is still at
                        home on her own soil, and on the best of terms with the English Army, by
                        which indeed this remnant of her prospers greatly. As I have already
                        insisted, the relations everywhere between the British soldier and the
                        French and Belgian populations are among
                        the British—or shall I say the Allied?—triumphs of the war.
                    In one street a company from a famous regiment, picked men all of them, comes
                        swinging along, fresh from their baths—life and force in every
                        movement—young Harrys with their beavers on. Then, a house where men have
                        their gas-helmets tested—a very strict and necessary business; and another,
                        where an ex-Balliol tutor and Army Chaplain keeps open doors for the soldier
                        in his hours of rest or amusement. But we go in search of a safe road to a
                        neighboring village, where some fresh passes have to be got. Each foot now
                        of the way is crowded with the incidents and appurtenances of war, and war
                        close at hand. An Australian transport base is pointed out, with a wholly
                        Australian staff—‘Some of the men,’ says our guide, ‘are millionaires’;
                        close by is an aeroplane descending unexpectedly in a field, and a crowd of
                        men rushing to help; and we turn away relieved to see the two aviators
                        walking off unhurt. Meanwhile, I notice a regular game of football going on
                        at a distance, and some carefully written names of by-paths—‘Hyde Park
                            Corner,’—‘Piccadilly,’ —‘Queen Mary's
                        Road,’—and the like. The animation, the life of the scene are
                        indescribable.
                    At the next village the road was crowded both with natives and soldiers to
                        see the German prisoners brought in. Alack, we did not see them. Ambulances
                        were passing and repassing, the slightly wounded men in cars open at the
                        back, the more serious cases in closed cars, and everywhere the same
                            va-et-vient of lorries and waggons, of
                        staff-cars and motor cyclists. It was not right for us to add to the
                        congestion in the road. Moreover, the hours were drawing on; and the great
                        sight was still to come. But to have watched those prisoners come in would
                        have somehow rounded off the day!
                
                
                    (IV)
                    Our new passes took us to the top of a hill well known to the few onlookers
                        of which this war admits. The motor stopped at a point on the road where a
                        picket was stationed, who examined our papers. Then came a stiff and muddy
                        climb, past a dug-out, for protection in case of shelling, Captain —
                        carrying the three gas-helmets. At the top
                        was a flat green space—three or four soldiers playing football on it!—and an
                        old windmill, and farm-buildings. We sheltered behind the great beams
                        supporting the windmill, and looked out through them, north and east, over a
                        wide landscape; a plain bordered eastward by low hills, every mile of it,
                        almost, watered by British blood, and consecrate to British dead.
                    As we reached the windmill, as though in sombre greeting, the floating mists
                        on the near horizon seemed to part, and there rose from them a dark, jagged
                        tower, one side of it torn away. It was the tower of Ypres—mute
                        victim!—mute witness to a crime, that, beyond the reparations of our own
                        day, history will avenge through years to come. A flash!—another!—from what
                        appear to be the ruins at its base. It is the English guns speaking from the
                        lines between us and Ypres; and as we watch we see the columns of white
                        smoke rising from the German lines as the shells burst. There they are, the
                        German lines—along the Messines ridge. We make them out quite clearly,
                        thanks to a glass and Captain —'s guidance. Their guns too are at work, and
                        a couple of their shells are bursting on
                        our trenches somewhere between Vlamertinghe and Dickebusche. Then—the rattle
                        of our machine-guns—as it seems from somewhere close below us, and again,
                        the boom of artillery. The counter-action is in progress, and we watch what
                        can be seen or guessed of it, in fascination. We are too far off to see what
                        is actually happening between the opposing trenches, but one of the chief
                        fields of past and present battle, scenes which our children and our
                        children's children will go to visit, lie spread out before us. Half the
                        famous sites of the earlier war can be dimly made out, between us and Ypres.
                        In front of us is the gleam of the Zillebeke Lake, beyond it Hooge. Hill 60
                        is in that band of shadow; a little farther east the point where Prussian
                        Guard was mown down at the close of the first battle of Ypres; further south
                        the fields and woods made for ever famous by the charge of the Household
                        Cavalry, by the deeds of the Worcesters, and the London Scottish, by all the
                        splendid valour of that ‘thin red line,’ French and English, cavalry and
                        infantry, which in the first battle of Ypres withstood an enemy four times
                        as strong, saved France, and thereby England, and thereby Europe. In that tract of ground over which we are
                        looking lie more than 100,000 graves English and French; and to it the
                        hearts of two great nations will turn for all time. Then—if you try to
                        pierce the northern haze beyond that ruined tower, you may follow in thought
                        the course of the Yser westward to that Belgian coast where Admiral Hood's
                        guns broke down and scattered the German march upon Dunkirk and Calais; or
                        if you turn south you are looking over the Belfry of Bailleul, towards Neuve
                        Chapelle, and Festubert, and all the fierce fighting ground round Souchez
                        and the Labyrinth. Once English and French stood linked here in a common
                        heroic defence. Now the English hold all this line firmly from the sea to
                        the Somme; while the French, with the eyes of the world upon them, are
                        making history hour by hour at Verdun.
                    So to this point we have followed one branch—the greatest—of England's
                        effort; and the mind, when eyes fail, pursues it afresh from its beginnings
                        when we first stood to arms in August 1914, through what Mr. Buchan has
                        finely called the ‘rally of the Empire,’ through the early rush and the
                        rapid growth of the New Armies, through the strengthening of Egypt, the disaster of Gallipoli, the seizure of the
                        German Colonies; through all that vast upheaval at home which we have seen
                        in the munition areas, through that steady, and ever-growing organisation on
                        the friendly French soil we have watched in the supply bases. Yet here, for
                        us, it culminates; and here, and in the North Sea, we can hardly
                        doubt,—whatever may be the diversions in other fields—will be fought, for
                        Great Britain, the decisive battles of the war. As I turn to those dim lines
                        on the Messines ridge, I have come at last to sight of whither it all moves.
                        There, in those trenches is The Aggressor—the enemy who has
                        wantonly broken the peace of Europe, who has befouled civilisation with
                        deeds of lust and blood, between whom and the Allies there can be no peace,
                        till the Allies' right arm dictates it. Every week, every day, the British
                        armies grow, the British troops pour steadily across the Channel; and to the
                        effort of England and her Allies there will be no truce till the righteous
                        end is won.
                    But the shadows are coming down on the great scene, and with the sound of the
                        guns still in our ears we speed back through the crowded roads to G.H.Q. One more scene—before the
                        wonderful day is over. A mesage from an important Headquarters brings us to
                        a halt there on our way back. The pleasant upper room in the old French
                        house with its going and coming; the interest of watching the Army Commander
                        himself—strong, weather-beaten figure!—as he stood receiving reports from
                        his A.D.C.s, including the ‘German wireless’ just picked up, on the fighting
                        of the morning; the happy bearing of the young officers, as they arrived in
                        haste, one after another; the appearance in the group of a second General,
                        whose name will be for ever associated with some of the most brilliant deeds
                        of the war; and finally, the courtesy with which, at a first moment of
                        leisure, on a day of action, a woman writer was received, merely for her
                        errand's sake, as simply and kindly as though we had been all standing in
                        Kensington or Belgravia:—these things remain engraved on memory. The fine
                        grizzled heads of the older men; the radiant looks of the younger; the
                        talk—reticent, quietly confident, humane:—they are with me still. It was
                        war, one aspect of it, seen from close by, and in undress. An Englishwoman left it behind her, prouder even
                        than before that— 
                            
                                ‘Chatham's language was her mother tongue,
                                And Wolfe's great name compatriot with her own.’
                            
                        
                    Now all that I have to do is to take you, far away from the armies, into the
                        homes whence the men fighting here are drawn, and to shew you, if I can,
                        very shortly, by a few instances, what rich and poor are doing as
                        individuals, to feed the effort of England in this war. What of the
                            young, of all classes and opportunities, who have laid down
                        their lives in this war? What of the families who reared them, the Schools
                        and Universities which sent them forth—the comrades who are making ready to
                        carry on their work? You ask me as to the spirit of the
                        nation—the foundation of all else. Let us look into a few lives—a few
                        typical lives and families, and see.
                
            
            
                
                No. 6.
                
                    
                        April 22nd.
                    
                
                As I begin upon this final letter to you comes the news that the threatened split
                    in the British Cabinet owing to the proposed introduction of general military
                    service has been averted; and that at a Secret Session to be held next Tuesday,
                    April 25th, Ministers will, for the first time, lay before both Houses of
                    Parliament full and complete information—much more full and complete at any
                    rate, than has yet been given—of the ‘effort’ of Great Britain in this world
                    war, what this country is doing in sea-power, in the provisions of Armies, in
                    the lending of money to our Allies, in our own shipping service to them, and in
                    our supply to them of munitions, coal, and other war material—including boots
                    and clothing. If, then, our own British Parliament will be for the first time
                    fully apprised next Tuesday of what the nation has been doing, it is, perhaps,
                    small wonder that you on your side of the Atlantic have not rightly understood
                    the performance of a nation which has, collectively, the same love of ‘grousing’ as the individual British soldier
                    shews in the trenches.
                Let me however go back and recapitulate a little. In the first of these letters,
                    I tried, by a rapid ‘vision’ of the Fleet, as I personally saw an important
                    section of it amid the snows of February, to point to the indispensable
                    condition of this ‘effort,’ without which it could never have been made, without
                    which it could not be maintained for a day, at the present moment. Since that
                    visit of mine, the power of the Fleet, and the effect of the Fleet have
                    strengthened week by week. The blockade of Germany is far more effective than it
                    was three months ago; the evidence of its growing stringency accumulates
                    steadily, and at the same time the British Foreign Office has been anxiously
                    trying, and evidently with much success, to minimise for neutrals its inevitable
                    difficulties and inconveniences. Meanwhile, as Mr. Asquith will explain next
                    Tuesday, the expenditure on the war, not only on our own needs—but on those of
                    our Allies is colossal—terrifying. The most astonishing Budget of English
                    history, demanding a fourth of his income from every well-to-do citizen, has
                    been brought in since I began to write these letters, and quietly accepted. Five hundred millions sterling (2500
                    million dollars) have been already lent to our Allies. We are spending at the
                    yearly rate of 600 millions sterling (3000 million dollars) on the Army; 200
                    millions on the Navy, as compared with 40 millions in 1913; while the Munitions
                    Department is costing about two-thirds as much (400 millions sterling) as the
                    rest of the Army, and is employing close upon two million workers, one-tenth of
                    them women. The export trade of the country, in spite of submarines and lack of
                    tonnage, is at the moment greater than it was in the corresponding months of
                    1913.
                As to what we have got for our money, Parliament has authorised an army of four
                    million men, and it is on the question of the last half million that England's
                    Effort now turns. Mr. Asquith will explain everything that has been done, and
                    everything that still remains to do, in camera
                    to Parliament next Tuesday. But do not, my dear friend, make any mistake!
                        England will get the men she wants; and Labour will be in the
                    end just as determined to get them as any other section of the community.
                    Meanwhile, in France, while we seem, for the moment, to be inactive, we are in
                    reality giving the French at Verdun just that
                    support which they and General Joffre desire, and—it can scarcely be
                    doubted—preparing great things on our own account. In spite of our failure in
                    Gallipoli, and the surrender at Kut of General Townshend's force, Egypt is no
                    longer in danger of attack, if it ever has been; our sea-power has brought a
                    Russian force safely to Marseilles; and the possibilities of British and Russian
                    collaboration in the East are rapidly opening out. As to the great and complex
                    war-machine we have been steadily building up on French soil, as I tried to shew
                    in my fourth letter, whether in the supply bases, or in the war organisation
                    along the ninety miles of front now held by the British armies, it would indeed
                    astonish those dead heroes of the Retreat from Mons—could they come back to see
                    it! We are not satisfied with it yet—hence the unrest in Parliament and the
                    Press—we shall never be satisfied—till Germany has accepted the terms of the
                    Allies. But those who know England best have no doubt whatever as to the temper
                    of the nation which has so far ‘improvised the impossible,’ in the setting up of
                    this machine, and means, in the end, to get out of it what it
                        wants.
                
                The temper of the nation? In this last letter let me take some samples of it.
                    First—what have the rich been doing? As to money, the figures of the income-tax,
                    the death-duties, and the various war loans are there to show what they have
                    contributed to the State. The Joint War Committee of the Red Cross and the St.
                    John's Ambulance Association has collected—though not, of course, from the rich
                    only—close on four millions sterling (between 18 and 19 million dollars), and
                    the Prince of Wales' Fund nearly 6 million (30 million dollars). The lavishness
                    of English giving, indeed, in all directions during the last two years, could
                    hardly I think have been outdone. A few weeks ago I walked with the Duke of
                    Bedford through the training and reinforcement camp, about fifteen miles from my
                    own home in the country, which he himself commands and which, at the outbreak of
                    war, he himself built without waiting for public money or War-Office
                    contractors, to house and train recruits for the various Bedfordshire regiments.
                    The camp holds 1200 men, and is ranged in a park where the oaks—still
                    standing—were considered too old by Oliver Cromwell's Commissioners to furnish
                    timber for the English Navy. Besides ample
                    barrack accommodation in comfortable huts, planned so as to satisfy every demand
                    whether of health or convenience, all the opportunities that Aldershot offers,
                    on a large scale, are here provided in miniature. The model trenches with the
                    latest improvements in plan, revetting, gun-emplacements, sally-ports and the
                    rest, spread through the sandy soil; the musketry ranges, bombing and bayonet
                    schools are of the most recent and efficient type. And the Duke takes a keen
                    personal interest in every man in training, follows his progress in camp, sees
                    him off to the Front, and very often receives him, when wounded, in the
                    perfectly equipped hospital which the Duchess has established in Woburn Abbey
                    itself. Here the old riding-school, tennis court and museum, which form a large
                    building fronting the abbey, have been turned into wards as attractive as bright
                    and simple colour, space, flowers, and exquisite cleanliness can make them. The
                    Duchess is herself the Matron-in-charge, under the War Office, keeps all the
                    records, is up at half-past five in the morning, and spends her day in the
                    endless doing, thinking, and contriving that such a hospital needs. Not very far
                    away stands another beautiful country house rented by Mr. and Mrs. Whitelaw Reid when they were in
                    England. It also is a hospital, and its owner, Lord Lucas, not a rich man, has
                    now given it irrevocably to the nation for the use of disabled soldiers,
                    together with as much land as may suffice a farm colony chosen from among them.
                    The beautiful hospital of 250 beds at Paignton, in Devonshire, run entirely by
                    women of American birth now resident in Great Britain, without any financial aid
                    from the British Government, was another large country house given to the
                    service of the wounded by Mr. Singer. Lady Sheffield's hospital for twenty-five
                    beds at Alderley Park is an example of how part of a country house with all its
                    green and restful surroundings may be used for those who have suffered in the
                    war; and it has many fellows in all parts of England. Altogether about 700
                    country houses large and small have been offered to the War Office.
                But money and houses are the very least part of what the old families, the rich
                    manufacturers, or the educated class generally have offered to their country in
                    this war. Democracy has gone far with us, but it may still be said that the
                    young heir to a great name, to estates with which his family has been 
                        con-
                        connected
                     nected for generations, and to the
                    accumulated ‘consideration’ to use a French word in a French sense, which such a
                    position almost always carries with it—has a golden time in English life.
                    Difficulties that check others fall away from him; he is smiled upon for his
                    kindred's sake before he makes friends for his own; the world is over-kind to
                    his virtues and blind to his faults; he enters manhood indeed as ‘of one our
                    conquerors’; and it will cost him some trouble to throw away his advantages.
                    Before the war such a youth was the common butt of the Socialist orator. He was
                    the typical ‘shirker’ and ‘loafer,’ while other men worked; the parasite bred
                    from the sweat of the poor; the soft effeminate creature who had never faced the
                    facts of life and never would. As to his soldiering—the common profession of so
                    many of his kind—that was only another offense in the eyes of politicians like
                    Mr. Keir Hardie. When the class war came, he would naturally be found shooting
                    down the workmen; but for any other war, an ignorant popinjay!—incompetent even
                    at his own trade, and no match whatever for the scientific soldier of the
                    Continent.
                Those who knew anything of the Army were well
                    aware long before 1914 that this type of officer—if he still existed, as no
                    doubt he had once existed—had become extraordinarily rare; that since the Boer
                    War, the level of education in the Army, the standard of work demanded, the
                    quality of the relations between officers and men had all steadily advanced. And
                    with regard to the young men of the ‘classes’ in general, those who had to do
                    with them, at school and college, while fully alive to their weaknesses, yet
                    cherished convictions which were more instinct than anything else, as to what
                    stuff these easy-going, sport-loving fellows might prove to be made of in case
                    of emergency.
                Well, the emergency came. These youths of the classes, heirs to titles and
                    estates, or just younger sons of the old squirearchy of England, so far as it
                    still survives, went out in their hundreds with the old and famous regiments of
                    the British line in the Expeditionary Force, and perished in their hundreds.
                    Forty-seven eldest sons, heirs to English peerages, had fallen within a year of
                    the outbreak of war; among them the heirs to such famous houses as Longleat,
                    Petworth, and Castle Ashby, and such names as Grenfell, Hood, Stuart, Bruce,
                    Lister, Douglas Pennant, Worsley, Hay, St.
                    Aubyn, Carington, Annesley, Hicks Beach; together with men whose fathers have
                    played prominent parts in the politics or finance of the last half-century. And
                    the first ranks have been followed by what one might almost call a levée en masse of those that remained. Their blood
                    has been spilt like water at Ypres and La Bassée, at Suvla and Helles. Whatever
                    may be said henceforward of these ‘golden lads’ of ours, ‘shirker’ and ‘loafer’
                    they can never be called again. They have died too lavishly, their men have
                    loved and trusted them too well for that; and some of the working-class leaders,
                    with the natural generosity of English hearts, have confessed it abundantly.
                And the professional classes—the intellectuals—everywhere the leading force of
                    the nation—have done just as finely, and of course in far greater numbers. Never
                    shall I forget my visit to Oxford last May, in the height of the summer term;
                    just at that moment when Oxford normally is at its loveliest and fullest,
                    brimming over with young life, the streets crowded with caps and gowns, the
                    river and towing-path alive with the ‘flannelled fools,’ who have indeed flung
                    back Rudyard Kipling's gibe—if it ever applied
                    to them—with interest. For they had all disappeared. They were in the trenches,
                    landing at Suvla, garrisoning Egypt, pushing up to Baghdad. The colleges
                    contained a few forlorn remnants—under age, or medically unfit. The river, on a
                    glorious May day, shewed boats indeed, but girls were rowing them. Oriel, the
                    college of Arnold, of Newman, of Cecil Rhodes, was filled with women students,
                    whose own college, Somerville, had become a hospital. The Examination Schools in
                    the High Street were a hospital, and the smell of disinfectants displaced the
                    fragrance of lilac and hawthorn for ever associated in the minds of Oxford's
                    lovers with the summer term. In New College gardens, there were white tents full
                    of wounded; and I walked up and down that wide deserted lawn of St. John's,
                    where Charles I. once gathered his Cavaliers, with an old friend, an Oxford
                    tutor of forty years' standing, who said with a despairing gesture, speaking of
                    his pupils, ‘So many are gone—so many!—and the terrible thing is
                    that I can't feel it as I once did. As blow follows blow one seems to have lost
                    the power.’
                Let me evoke the memory of some of them. From Balliol have gone the two Grenfell
                    brothers, vehement, powerful natures, by the
                    testimony of those who knew them best; not delightful, perhaps, to those who did
                    not love them, not just, often, to those they did not love, but full of that
                    rich stuff which life matures to all fine uses. The younger fell in the attack
                    on Hooge, July 31st, last year; the elder, Julian, had fallen some months
                    earlier. Julian's verses, composed the night before he was wounded, will be
                    remembered with Rupert Brooke's sonnets, as expressing the inmost passion of the
                    war in great hearts. They were written in the spring weather of April 1915, and
                    a month later the writer had died of his wounds. With an exquisite felicity and
                    strength the lines run, expressing the strange and tragic joy of the ‘fighting
                    man’ in the spring, which may be his last—in the night heavens—in the woodland
                    trees:—
                
                    
                        The woodland trees that stand together
                        They stand to him each one a friend;
                        They gently speak in the windy weather;
                        They guide to valley and ridge's end.
                    
                    
                        The kestrel hovering by day
                        And the little owls that call by night,
                        Bid him be swift and keen as they
                        As keen of ear, as swift of sight.
                    
                    
                        The blackbird sings to him, ‘Brother, brother,
                        If this be the last song you shall sing,
                        Sing well, for you may not sing another;
                        Brother, sing.’
                    
                    
                    
                        In dreary, doubtful waiting hours,
                        Before the brazen frenzy starts,
                        The horses show him nobler powers;—
                        O patient eyes, courageous hearts!
                    
                    
                        And when the burning moment breaks,
                        And all things else are out of mind,
                        And only Joy of Battle takes
                        Him by the throat and makes him blind,
                    
                    
                        Through joy and blindness he shall know
                        Not caring much to know, that still
                        Nor lead nor steel shall reach him, so
                        That it be not the Destined Will.
                    
                    
                        The thundering line of battle stands,
                        And in the air Death moans and sings;
                        But Day shall clasp him with strong hands,
                        And Night shall fold him in soft wings.
                    
                
                A young man of another type, inheriting from the Cecils on the one side, and from
                    his grandfather, the first Lord Selborne, on the other, the best traditions of
                    English Conservatism and English churchmanship—open-eyed, patriotic, devout—has
                    been lost to the nation in Robert A.S. Palmer, the second son of Lord and Lady
                    Selborne, affectionately known to an ardent circle of friends whose hopes were
                    set on him, as ‘Bobbie Palmer.’ He has fallen in the Mesopotamian campaign; and
                    of him, as of William Glynne Charles Gladstone, the grandson and heir of
                    England's great Liberal Minister, who fell in Flanders a year ago, it may be said, as his Oxford contemporaries said of Sir
                    Philip Sidney, 
                        
                            Honour and Fame are got about their graves,
                            And there sit mourning of each other's loss.
                        
                     In one of his latest letters, quoted by a friend in a short biography,
                    Robert Palmer wrote:—‘Who isn't weary to death of the war? I certainly have
                    been, for over a year; yes, and sorrowful almost unto death over it, at times,
                    as you doubtless have too. But of one thing I am and always have been sure, that
                    it is worth the cost, and any cost there is to come, to prevent
                    Prussianism—which is Anti-Christ—controlling Europe.’ The following eloquent
                    passage written by an Oxford Fellow and Tutor, in a series of papers on the
                    losses sustained by Oxford in the war, is understood to refer to Robert
                    Palmer:—
                ‘To-night the bell tolls in the brain (haud
                        rediturus) over one of the noblest—if it be not a treason to
                    discriminate—of all the dead one has known who have died for England.
                    Graciousness was in all his goings and in all the workings of his mind. The
                    music and gymnastic whereof Plato wrote, that should attune the body to harmony
                    with the mind, and harmonise all the elements of the mind in a perfect unison, had done their work upon him. He
                    seemed—at any rate, to the eyes of those who loved him, and they were many—to
                    have the perfection of nature's endowment: beauty of mind knit to beauty of
                    body, and all informed by a living spirit of affection, so that his presence was
                    a benediction, and a matter for thanksgiving that God had made men after this
                    manner.... His tutor had once written in his copy of the Vulgate: “Esto vir fortis et pugnemus pro populo nostro et pro civitate
                        Dei nostri.” He was strong; and he fought for both.’
                Another Oxford man, Gilbert Talbot, a youngest son of the much-loved Bishop of
                    Winchester, will perhaps stand for many, in coming years, as the pre-eminent
                    type of first youth, youth with all its treasure of life and promise unspent,
                    poured out like spikenard in this war at the feet of England. Already assured at
                    Oxford of a brilliant career in politics, a fine speaker, a hard worker,
                    possessing by inheritance the charm of two families always in the public eye and
                    ear, and no less popular than famous, he had just landed in the United States
                    when the war broke out. He was going round the world with a friend, youth and
                    ambition high within him. He turned back without a moment's hesitation,
                        though soldiering had never been at all
                    attractive to him, and after his training went out to France. He was killed in
                    Flanders in July last. Let me give the story of his identification after death
                    on the battle-field, by his elder brother, an Army Chaplain, and ex-Balliol
                    tutor, as Canon Scott Holland gave it in the Commonwealth:—
                ‘The attack had failed. There was never any hope of its succeeding, for the
                    machine guns of the Germans were still in full play, with their fire unimpaired.
                    The body had to lie there where it had fallen. Only, his brother could not
                    endure to let it lie unhonoured or unblessed. After a day and a half of anxious
                    searching for exact details, he got to the nearest trench by the “murdered”
                    wood, which the shells had now smashed to pieces. There he found some shattered
                    Somersets, who begged him to go no farther. But he heard a voice within him
                    bidding him risk it, and the call of the blood drove him on. Creeping out of the
                    far end of the trench, as dusk fell, he crawled through the grass on hands and
                    knees, in spite of shells and snipers, dropping flat on the ground as the flares
                    shot up from the German trenches. And, at last, thirty yards away in the open...
                    he knew that he was close on what he sought.
                    Two yards farther, he found it. He could stroke with his hand the fair young
                    head that he knew so well; he could feel for pocket-book and prayer-book, and
                    the badge and the whistle. He could breathe a prayer of benediction ... and then
                    crawl back on his perilous way in the night, having done all that man could do
                    for the brother whom he had loved so fondly; and enabled, now, to tell those at
                    home that Gilbert was dead indeed, but that he had died the death that a soldier
                    would love to die, leaving his body the nearest of all who fell, to the trench
                    that he had been told to take.’
                Again:—of Charles Alfred Lister, Lord Ribblesdale's eldest son, an Oxford friend
                    says—‘there were almost infinite possibilities in his future.’ He was twice
                    wounded at the Dardanelles, was then offered a post of importance in the Foreign
                    Office, refused it, and went back to the Front—to die. But among the hundreds of
                    memorial notices issued by the Oxford Colleges, the same note recurs and recurs,
                    of unhesitating, uncalculated sacrifice. Older men, and younger men, Don, and
                    undergraduate, lads of 19 and 20, and those who were already school-mastering,
                    or practicing at the Bar, or in business,—they
                    felt no doubts, they made no delays. Their country called, and none failed in
                    that great Adsum.
                Cambridge of course has the same story to tell. One takes the short, pathetic
                    biographies almost at random from the ever lengthening record, contributed by
                    the Colleges. Captain J. Lusk, 6th Cameronians, was already director of an
                    important steel works, engaged in Government business when war broke out, and
                    might have honourably claimed exemption. Instead he offered himself at once on
                    mobilisation, and went out with his battalion to France last spring. On the 15th
                    of June at Festubert, he was killed in volunteering to bring what was left of a
                    frightfully battered battalion out of action. ‘What seems to me my duty as an
                    officer,’ he once wrote to a friend, ‘is to carry my sword across the barriers
                    of death clean and bright.’ ‘This,’ says the friend who writes the notice, ‘he
                    has done.’ Lieutenant Le Blanc Smith, of Trinity, machine-gun officer, was
                    struck in the forehead by a sniper's bullet while reconnoitring. His General and
                    brother officers write— 
                        ‘he was a very fine young of officer. Everyone loved him. His men would
                            do anything for him....’
                     and the sergeant of his machine-gun
                    brigade says— 
                        ‘Although only a non-commissioned officer myself, I feel I have lost my
                            brother, because he was so awfully good and kind to me and us all.’
                    
                Lieutenant Hamilton, aged 25, says in a last letter to his father— 
                        ‘Just a line while the beginning of the great battle is going on. It is
                            wonderful how peaceful one feels amid it all. Any moment one may be put
                            out of action, but one does not worry. That quiet time alone with God at
                            the Holy Communion was most comforting.’
                     Immediately after writing these words, the writer fell in action. Captain
                    Clarke, a famous Cambridge athlete, President of the C.U.A.C.—bled to death,
                    according to one account, from a frightful wound received in the advance near
                    Hooge on September 25th. His last recorded act—the traditional act of the dying
                    soldier!—was to give a drink from his flask to a wounded private. Of the general
                    action of Cambridge men, the Master of Christ's writes—‘Nothing has been more
                    splendid than the way the young fellows have come forward; not only the athletes
                    and the healthy, but in all cases the most unlikely men have rushed to the
                    front, and have done brilliantly. The mortality however has been appalling. In an ordinary way one loses one killed to
                    eight or nine wounded, but in this war the number of Cambridge men killed and
                    missing practically equals the number of wounded.’ Of the effect upon the
                    University an eyewitness says—‘...Eighty per cent. of the College rooms are
                    vacant. Rows and rows of houses in Cambridge are to let. All the Junior Fellows
                    are on service in one capacity or another, and a great many of the Seniors are
                    working in Government Offices or taking school posts—so that the school
                    education of the country may be carried on. Altogether, nearly 12,000 Cambridge
                    men are serving; 980 have been wounded, 780 have been killed, 92 are
                    missing.’
                As to one's friends and kinsfolk, let me recall the two gallant grandsons of my
                    dear old friend and publisher, George Murray Smith, the original publisher of
                        Jane Eyre, friend of Charlotte Brontë, and creator of the
                        Dictionary of National Biography. The elder one, who had just
                    married, fought in the Household Cavalry all through the retreat from Mons, and
                    fell in one of the early actions on the Flanders front. ‘He led us all the way,’
                    said one of his men afterwards. All the way!—all through the immortal
                        rearguard actions of August—only to fall,
                    when the tide had turned, and the German onslaught on Paris had been finally
                    broken! ‘In all my soldiering,’ writes a brother officer, ‘I have never seen a
                    warmer feeling between men and their officer.’ ‘Was he not,’—asks a well-known
                    Eton master, ‘that tall, smiling, strong, gentle-mannered boy at
                    White-Thomson's?—possessing an affectionate regard and feeling for others, which
                    boys as boys, especially if strong and popular, don't always, or indeed often
                    possess.’ The poor wife and parents were uncertain as to his fate for many
                    weeks, but he finally died of his wounds in a hospital behind the German lines.
                    Then, little more than six months later came the second blow. Geoffrey, the
                    younger brother, aged 19, fell on September 29th, near Vermelles. Nothing could
                    be more touching than the letters from officers and men about this brave
                    sweet-tempered boy. ‘Poor old regiment!’ writes the Colonel to the lad's
                    father—‘we were badly knocked about, and I brought out only three officers and
                    375 men, but they did magnificently, and it was thanks to officers like your
                    son, who put the honour of the regiment before all thought of fatigue or
                    personal danger. Such a gallant lad! We all loved him.’ A private, the boy's soldier-servant, who fought with him,
                    writes—‘I wish you could have seen him in that trench.... All the men say that
                    he deserved the V.C.... I don't know if we are going back to those trenches any
                    more, but if we do, I am going to try and lay Mr. Geoffrey to rest in some quiet
                    place.... I cannot bear to think that I shall not be able to be with him any
                    more.’
                But how they crowd upon the mind—the ‘unreturning brave’! Take our friends and
                    neighbours in this quiet Hertfordshire country. All round us the blows have
                    fallen—again and again the only son—sometimes two brothers out of three—the most
                    brilliant—the best beloved. And I see still the retreating figure of a dear
                    nephew of my own—Christoper Selwyn—as he vanished under the trees waving his
                    hand to us in March last. A boy made of England's best—who after two years in
                    Canada, and at the beginning of what must have been a remarkable career, heard
                    the call of the Mother-Country, and rushed home at once. He was transferred to
                    an English regiment, and came to say good-bye to us in March. It was impossible
                    to think of Christopher's coming to harm—such life and force, such wisdom and
                    character also, in his strong, handsome face
                    and thoughtful eyes! We talked of the future of Canada; not much of the war.
                    Then he vanished; and I could not feel afraid. But one night in May, near
                    Bailleul, he went out with a listening party between the trenches, was shot
                    through both legs by a sniper, and otherwise injured—carried back to hospital,
                    and after a few hours' vain hope, sank peacefully into eternity, knowing only
                    that he had done his duty, and fearing nothing. ‘Romance and melodrama,’—says
                    Professor Gilbert Murray, in one of the noblest and most moving utterances of
                    the war—‘were once a memory—broken fragments living on of heroic ages in the
                    past. We live no longer upon fragments and memories, we have entered ourselves
                    upon an heroic age. As for me personally, there is one thought that is always
                    with me—the thought that other men are dying for me, better men, younger, with
                    more hope in their lives, many of them men whom I have taught and loved.’ The
                    orthodox Christian—‘will be familiar with that thought of One who loved you
                    dying for you. I would like to say that now I seem to be familiar with the
                    thought that something innocent, something great, something that loved me, is
                    dying, and is dying daily for me. That is the
                    sort of community we now are—a community in which one man dies for his brother;
                    and underneath all our hatreds, our little anger and quarrels we
                        are brothers, who are ready to seal our brotherhood with blood.
                    It is for us these men are dying—for the women, the old men, and the rejected
                    men—and to preserve civilisation and the common life which we are keeping alive,
                    or building.’
                So much for the richer and the educated class. As to the rank and file, the
                    Tommies who are fighting and dying for England in precisely the same spirit as
                    those who have had ten times their opportunities in this unequal world, I have
                    seen them myself within a mile of the trenches, marching quietly up through the
                    fall of the March evening to take their places in that line, where, every night,
                    however slack the fighting, a minimum of so many casualties per mile, so many
                    hideous or fatal injuries by bomb or shell fire, is practically invariable. Not
                    the conscript soldiers of a military nation, to whom the thought of fighting has
                    been perforce familiar from childhood! Men, rather, who had never envisaged
                    fighting, to whom it is all new, who at bottom, however firm their will, or 
                        wonder-
                        wonderful
                     ful their courage, hate war, and
                    think it a loathsome business. Yet as to their temper and demeanour on the
                    battle-field, think of Anzac and Suvla, of the stubborn heroism of the retreat
                    from Mons, of the three weeks' immortal fighting—one man to four!—which we call
                    the first battle of Ypres, of the splendid attack at Neuve Chapelle, ‘when there
                    was not room on the firing positions for all who burned to take part in the
                    action, and one man would pull another down crying that it was his turn for a
                    shot’—when ‘the wounded, even the desperately wounded, retired with jokes on
                    their lips, telling each other the wild incidents of the day.’ A correspondent
                    whose brilliant work shows a remarkable sympathy with and understanding of the
                    British soldier, describes, as an eye-witness, the coming back of the
                    survivors—men of the Royal Fusiliers, and the Northumberland Fusiliers—from a
                    dash into the German line, through what seemed impregnable defences, near St.
                    Eloi, on March 31st last. ‘They were cheerful and proud men ... in a mud-stained
                    kit that would shock the dirtiest of tramps, yet walking as jauntily as though
                    it were St. James's Street. Some of them, indeed, could barely crawl for
                    wearines,’ but—‘they were wonderful to see
                    —and not the foulest horrors of war can break such a spirit as I saw in the eyes
                    of all those boys who were coming back from the fields of death.’ To me too it
                    was given to see that spirit in the eyes of our men—before the fight—within a
                    mile of the firing line; and—after the fight—in the exultant bearing of the
                    young wounded officers whom we watched at the Casalty Clearing Station near
                    Poperinghe.
                Day after day, week after week, indeed, the same spirit sustains the British
                    Army, in that long battle-field, where apart from the special and conspicuous
                    actions of the war, fighting never ceases, nor, with the fighting, wounds and
                    death. In comparison with ‘the ribbon of land 400 miles long’ where the Allies,
                    on the West, stand face to face with the enemy, says another eye-witness, ‘all
                    the battle-fields of the world are no more than playgrounds.’ We at home ‘should
                    think of it only with reverence, and speak of it with awe.’ ‘I do not find it
                    easy,’ writes a chaplain at the Front who knows his men and has shared all the
                    dangers of their life, ‘to give incidents and sayings. I could speak of the
                    courage of the wounded brought in after battle. How many times has one heard
                    them telling the doctor to attend to others
                    before themselves! I could tell you of a very shy and nervous boy who, after an
                    attack, dug, himself alone, with his entrenching tool, a little trench, under
                    continuous fire, up which trench he afterwards crept backwards and forwards
                    carrying ammunition to an advanced post; or of another who sat beside a wounded
                    comrade for several hours under sniper's fire, and somehow built him a slight
                    protection until night fell and rescue came. Such incidents are merely specimens
                    of thousands which are never known. Indeed it is the heroism of all
                    the men all the time which has left the most lasting impression on
                    my mind after thirteen months at the war. No one can conceive the strain which
                    the daily routine of trench life entails, unless one has been among the men.
                    They never show the slightest sign of unwillingness, and they do what they are
                    told when and where they are told without questioning; no matter what the
                    conditions or dangers, they come up smiling and cheery through it all—full of
                    ‘grouse’ perhaps, but that is the soldier's privilege!’ ... ‘It is, I think,
                    what we all are feeling and are so proud of—this unbreakable spirit of
                    self-sacrifice in the daily routine of trench warfare. We are proud of it because it is the highest of all forms of
                    self-sacrifice, for it is not the act of a moment when the blood is up, or the
                    excitement of battle is at fever heat—but it is demanded of the soldier day in
                    and day out and shewn by him coolly and deliberately, day in and day out with
                    death always at hand. We are proud of it too because it is so surely a sign of
                    the magnificent “moral” of our troops—and moral is
                    going to play a very leading part as the war proceeds.... What is inspiring this
                    splendid disregard of self is partly the certainty that the Cause is Right,
                    partly it is a hidden joy of conscience which makes them know that they would be
                    unhappy if they were not doing their bit—and partly (I am convinced of this,
                    too) it is a deepening faith’ in their religion, and its Founder—the Man of
                    Sorrows, Who suffered for men.
                A few days ago, I accompanied a woman official distributing some leaflets on
                    behalf of a Government department in some visits to families living in a block
                    of model dwellings somewhere in South London. We called on nine families. In
                    every single case, the man of the family had gone, or was expecting to go, to
                    the war, except in one case, where a man who out of pure patriotism and at
                        great personal difficulty had joined the
                    Volunteer Reserve at the outbreak of war, had strained his heart in trench
                    digging, and was now medically unfit, to his own bitter disappointment. There
                    was some grumbling in the case of one young wife that her husband should be
                    forced to go, before the single men whom she knew; but in the main the temper
                    that showed itself bore witness both to the feeling and the intelligence that
                    our people are bringing to bear on the war. One woman said her husband was a
                    sergeant in a well-known regiment. He thought the world of his men, and whenever
                    one was killed, he must be at the burying. ‘He can't bear—you know’—she added
                        shyly—‘they should feel alone.’ She had three brothers-in-law
                    ‘out’—one recently killed. One was an ambulance driver under the R.A.M.C. He had
                    five small children, but had volunteered. ‘He doesn't say much about the war,
                    except that “Tommies are wonderful. They never complain.”’ She notices a change
                    in his character. He was always good to his wife and children—‘but now he's
                        splendid!’ The brother of another woman had been a jockey in
                    Belgium, had liked the country and the people. When war broke out he ‘felt he
                    must fight for them.’ He came home at once and
                    enlisted. Another brother had been a stoker on a war-ship at the Dardanelles,
                    and was in the famous landing of April 25. Bullets ‘thick and fast like
                    hailstorm. Terrible times collecting the dead. Her brother had worked hard
                    forming burial parties. Was now probably going to the Tigris. Wrote jolly
                    letters!’—
                Then there was the little woman born and bred in the Army, with all the pride of
                    the Army—a familiar type. Husband a sergeant in the Guards—was gymnastic
                    instructor at a northern town—and need not have gone to the war, but felt ‘as a
                    professional soldier’ he ought to go. Three brothers in the Army, one a little
                    drummer-boy of sixteen badly wounded in the retreat from Mons. Her sailor
                    brother had died—probably from exposure, in the North Sea. The most cheerful,
                    plucky little creature! ‘We are Army people, and must expect to fight.’
                Well—you say you ‘would like America to visualise the effort, the self-sacrifice
                    of the English men and women who are determined to see this war through.’ There
                    was, I thought, a surprising amount of cheerful effort, of
                        understanding self-sacrifice in those nine homes, where my
                    companion's friendly talk drew out the family
                    facts without difficulty. And I am convinced that if I had spent days instead of
                    hours in following her through the remaining tenements in these huge and
                    populous blocks the result would have been practically the same. The nation is
                    behind the war, and behind the Government; solidly determined to win this war,
                    and build a new world after it.
                As to the work of our women, I have described something of it in the munitions
                    area, and if this letter were not already too long, I should like to dwell on
                    much else—the army of maidens, who, as V.A.D.'s (members of Voluntary Aid
                    Detachments), trained by the Red Cross, have come trooping from England's most
                    luxurious or comfortable homes and are doing invaluable work in hundreds of
                    hospitals; to begin with, the most menial scrubbing and dish-washing, and by now
                    the more ambitious and honourable—but not more indispensable—tasks of nursing
                    itself. In this second year of the war, the first army of V.A.D.'s, now
                    promoted, has everywhere been succeeded by a fresh levy, aglow with the same
                    eagerness and the same devotion as the first. Or I could dwell on the women's
                    hospitals—especially the remarkable hospital
                    in Endell Street, entirely officered by women; where some hundreds of male
                    patients accept the surgical and medical care of women doctors, and adapt
                    themselves to the light and easy discipline maintained by the women of the
                    staff, with entire confidence and grateful goodwill. To see a woman dentist at
                    work on a soldier's mouth, and a woman quartermaster presiding over her stores,
                    and managing besides everything pertaining to the lighting, heating, and
                    draining of the hospital, is one more sign of these changed and changing times.
                    The work done by the Scottish Women's Hospital in Serbia will rank as one of the
                    noblest among the minor episodes of the war. The magnificent work of British
                    nurses, everywhere, I have already spoken of. And everywhere, too, among the
                    camps in England and abroad, behind the fighting lines, or at the great railway
                    stations here or in France, through which the troops pass backwards and
                    forwards, hundreds of women have been doing ardent yet disciplined
                    service—giving long hours in crowded canteens or Y.M.C.A. huts to just those
                    small kindly offices, which bring home to the British soldier, more effectively
                    than many things more ambitious, what the
                    British nation feels towards him. The war has put an end, so far as the richer
                    class is concerned, to the busy idleness and all the costly make-believes of
                    peace. No one gives ‘dinner-parties’ in the old sense any more; the very word
                    ‘reception’ is dying out. The fashionable restaurants are full, but a great deal
                    of the entertaining there consists of festas,
                    arranged for the son or brother or friend, home from the Front on short leave,
                    for whom nobody feels they can do enough; and the pretty dresses of the women,
                    the food and drink, the gaiety and chatter, are often, if one interprets them
                    justly, but the symbols of feeling, sharp indeed, but
                    patriotically—tenderly—hidden. Meanwhile the common experience is that the war
                    is biting far deeper this year into ordinary life than it has done yet. Taxation
                    has grown much heavier, and will be more and more severely felt. Yet very few
                    grumble, and there is general and determined cutting down of the trappings and
                    appendages of life, which is to the good of us all.
                As to dress, there are foolish women in all classes, who still follow foolish
                    fashions. But there is also a fashion in ‘old clothes,’ and a pride in wearing
                    them. The high wages that employment in munition factories has brought to the women of the working class, shew
                    themselves often no doubt in forms of spending, that are extravagant or ugly.
                    ‘You should see the hats round here on a Saturday!’ said the manager of a
                    Midland factory. But I am bound to say he spoke of it proudly. The hats were for
                    him a testimony to the wages paid by his firm; and he would probably have
                    argued, on the girls' part, that after the long hours and hard work of the week,
                    the hats were a perfectly legitimate ‘fling,’ and human nature must out.
                    Certainly the children of the workers are better fed and better clothed, which
                    speaks so far well for the mothers; and recent Government enquiries seem to shew
                    that in spite of universal employment, and high wages, the drunkenness of the
                    United Kingdom as a whole is markedly less, while at the same time—uncomfortable
                    paradox!—the amount of alcohol consumed is greater.
                Undoubtedly, there is a very warm and widespread feeling among us that in this
                    war the women of the nation have done uncommonly well! You will remember a
                    similar stir of grateful recognition in America after your War of Secession,
                    connected with the part played in the nursing and sanitation of the war by the women of the Northern States. The
                    feeling here may well have an important social and political influence when the
                    war is over; especially among the middle and upper classes. It may be
                    counterbalanced to some extent in the industrial class, by the disturbance and
                    anxiety caused in many trades, but especially in the engineering trades, by that
                    great invasion of women I have tried to describe. But that the war will leave
                        some deep mark on that long evolution of the share of women in
                    our public life, which began in the teeming middle years of the last century,
                    is, I think, certain.
                May 2nd.—So I come to the end of the task you set me!—with what gaps and
                    omissions to look back upon, no one knows so well as myself. This letter starts
                    on its way to you at a critical moment for your great country, when the issue
                    between the United States and Germany is still unsettled. What will happen? Will
                    Germany give way? If not, what sort of relations will shape themselves, and how
                    quickly, between the Central Empires and America?
                To express myself on this great matter is no part of my task; although no English
                    man or woman but will watch its development
                    with a deep and passionate interest. What may be best for you, we cannot tell;
                    the military and political bearings of a breach between the United States and
                    Germany on our own fortunes are by no means clear to us. But what we
                        do want—in any case—is the sympathy, the moral support and
                    co-operation of your people. We have to thank you for a thousand generosities to
                    our wounded; we bless you—as comrades with you in that old Christendom which
                    even this war shall not destroy—for what you have done in Belgium—but we
                        want you to understand the heart of England in this war, and not to
                    be led away by the superficial difficulties and disputes that no great and free
                    nation escapes in time of crisis. Sympathy with France—France, the invaded, the
                    heroic—is easy for America—for us all. She is the great tragic figure of the
                    war; the whole world does her homage. We are not invaded; and so less tragic,
                    less appealing. But we are fighting the fight which is the fight of all free men
                    everywhere; against the wantonness of military power, against the spirit that
                    tears up treaties and makes peaceful agreement between nations impossible;
                    against a cruelty and barbarism in war which brings our civilisation to
                        shame. We have a right to your
                    sympathy—you who are the heirs of Washington and Lincoln, the trustees of
                    liberty in the New World, as we, with France, are in the Old. You are
                    concerned—you must be concerned—in the triumph of the ideals of ordered freedom
                    and humane justice over the ideals of unbridled force and ruthless cruelty, as
                    they have been revealed in this war, to the horror of mankind. The nation that
                    can never to all time wash from its hands the guilt of the Belgium crime, the
                    blood of the Lusitania victims, of the massacres of Louvain and
                    Dinant, of Aerschot and Termonde, may some day deserve our pity. To-day it has
                    to be met and conquered by a will stronger than its own, in the interests of
                    civilisation itself.
                This last week, at the close of which I am despatching this final letter, has
                    been a sombre week for England. It has seen the squalid Irish rising, with its
                    seven days' orgy of fire and bloodshed in Dublin; it has seen the surrender at
                    Kut of General Townshend, and his starving men; it has seen also a strong
                    demonstration in Parliament of discontent with certain phases of the conduct of
                    the war. And yet, how shall I convey to you the paradox that we in England—our
                    soldiers at the Front, and instructed opinion
                    at home—have never been so certain of ultimate victory as we now are? It
                        is the big facts that matter:—the steady growth of British resources,
                    in men and munitions, toward a maximum which we—and Russia—are only approaching,
                    while that of the Central Empires is past; the deepening unity of an Empire
                    which is being forged anew by danger and trial, and by the spirit of its sons
                    all over the world—a unity against which the Irish outrage, paid for by German
                    money, fiercely disavowed by the Nationalist leaders, and instantly effaced, as
                    a mere demonstration, by the gallantry at the same moment of Irish soldiers in
                    the battle-line, lifts its treacherous hand in vain; the increasing and terrible
                    pressure of the British blockade of Germany, equivalent, as someone has lately
                    said, every twenty-four hours that it is maintained, to a successful action in
                    the field; the magnificent resistance of an indomitable France; the mounting
                    strength of a reorganised Russia. This island-State—let me repeat it with
                    emphasis—was not prepared for, and had no expectation of a Continental war, such
                    as we are now fighting. The fact cries aloud from the records of the struggle;
                    it will command the ear of history; and it
                    acquits us for ever from the guilt of the vast catastrophe. But Great Britain
                    has no choice now but to fight to the end—and win. She knows it; and those who
                    count upon her wavering are living in a blind world. As to the difficulty of the
                    task, as to our own failures and mistakes in learning how to achieve it—we have
                    probably fewer illusions than those who criticise us. But we shall do
                        it—or perish.
                May 5th.—Since the preceding lines were written, the ‘Military Service
                    Bill’ bringing to the Colours ‘every British male subject’ between the ages of
                    18 and 41, except when legally exempted, has passed the House of Commons by an
                    overwhelming majority, and will be law immediately. And the Prime Minister
                    informed Parliament three days ago, that ‘the total naval and military
                        effort of the Empire since the beginning of the war exceeds five million
                        men.’
                With these two facts, these Letters may fitly close. Those who are most familiar
                    with England, our history, and the temperament of our people, will best
                    appreciate what they mean.
            
            
                MARY A. WARD
            
            Spottiswoode, Ballantyne & Co. Ltd., Printers, London, Colchester and
                Eton England
        
    
