
     ----CITATION----
        Clive, Caroline Wigley (1801-1873). Why Paul Ferroll Killed His Wife. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 367 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (May 2, 1996).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7194
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    Why Paul Ferroll Killed his Wife.
                
                by The Author of “Paul Ferroll.”
                
                    
                        “A man does not murder his wife gratuitously.”—
                        Froude’s Henry VIII.
                    
                
                Third Edition.
                
                    London: 
                    Saunders, Otley, and Co., Conduit Street
                
                1860.
            
            
        
        
        
            WHY PAUL FERROLL KILLED HIS WIFE.
            
                CHAPTER I.
                A LONG gallery opening on each side to small rooms gave the inhabitants
                    of St. Cécile’s Monastery access both to them and to the larger apartment which
                    was inhabited by the Reverend Mother herself. This latter room was of an oblong
                    shape, very bare of furniture, and of all kinds of decoration. The windows were
                    without curtains; there was but one table, and on it stood a crucifix. Two
                    benches by the wall were all the accommodation for sitting down. The one figure
                    which occupied the chamber required not even so
                    much, for she was kneeling in the middle of the floor, with support of no kind,
                    and quite upright, except her head, which was bowed under the thick cloth or
                    veil hanging over it, and which concealed even her hands.
                “She is praying,” said a nun, looking into the room, “you had better wait;” and
                    these words she addressed to a young girl who accompanied her, in the ordinary
                    tone of conversation, such as befitted the occupations of the place.
                The young girl advanced into the room, and herself went down on her knees at a
                    little distance from the Superior, running over her beads while she waited till
                    she might speak. She was very simply dressed in white, with parted hair, like a
                    child, but abundant and beautiful, falling low on low shoulders and delicately
                    rounded waist. Her face was fair, with very little colour, and the eyes, which
                    she raised often, while she slid her beads through her fingers, had a simplicity
                    of religious expression, such as fades even in those happy enough once to
                    possess it, when the habits of a pious child?
                    hood come to be contradicted by those of the general world.
                When the Superior rose from her knees, so did Elinor, and advanced towards the
                    elder lady, who kissed her on the forehead, and gave a blessing. The
                    conversation was in French, though the girl was English, for it was in a Convent
                    of Brittany that the scene took place. It did not begin in the tone supposed to
                    be exclusively that of Lady Abbesses.
                “Has Louisa finished the marking of all your shifts, my dear? Are they
                    ready?”
                “Yes, dear Mother, and packed up,” said Elinor.
                “And have you heard whether Madame Néotte is come.”
                “Yes, that is what I came here to tell you, as you desired.”
                “Then to?morrow you leave us,” said the Superior, in a melancholy voice.
                “It is you who have determined it,” said Elinor.
                “Ah, my child! your guardian believes it best; it is his doing.”
                
                “And I shall come back,” said the girl.
                “No, dear, you will never do that. I know your feelings better than you do. It
                    will be a hard parting with us all, but when you are away you will be glad. You
                    will enjoy the world, you will choose it, and you will be welcome in it. No; you
                    will never wish to come back here. I have known many gentle girls like you, who
                    could not find what they wanted here. They require to be carried along—not to
                    walk alone, as in a convent.”
                “Am I one of those,” said Elinor, catching hold of the Abbess’s hand and
                    passionately kissing it; “I who have been so happy?”
                “And have made us all happy—but you must go. Sit down a little while, let us talk
                    for the last time. The world is full of snares, my dear.”
                “What are they?” said Elinor. “What will they tempt me to do?”
                “Vanity, the pride of life, the lusts of the devil,” answered the Superior. “You
                    must be prepared for all. Some will pretend that you have beauty; some will
                    praise your voice, as if you were a musician;
                    some will talk to you of the world—and all, all for their own bad ends.”
                “What are those ends?” asked Elinor, again.
                The Abbess, was a little puzzled. “Man,” said she, solemnly, “is a creature going
                    about to devour. Listen not to him, go not near him, keep him far from you. He
                    will hurt you, he will destroy you; you have already learned this; now is your
                    time to practise. Keep your eyes from his face, keep your speech from his
                    commerce. One day it may come to pass that your guardian may select one who is
                    to be your husband. Then submit yourself to the will of your superiors, and
                    adopt the state of life which shall be allotted you; but till such a fate is
                    brought to your door, remember that a maiden must keep her finger on her lips
                    and her heart full of thoughts holy and virtuous, avoiding the very shadow of
                    sin.”
                Elinor was set thinking what these sins could be; but she resolved, at all
                    events, to do right, and to keep the precepts of her early friend in her
                    memory.
                
                She continued talking with the Reverend Mother as long as convent duties
                    permitted; then, for the last time, partook the Evening Service and assisted to
                    make the vesper beautiful by her exquisite voice, against the world’s estimation
                    of which the Superior thought she had successfully warned her.
                She rose that night for Vigils; and next morning was up at Matins—the last time
                    of doing these duties making them seem to her as if she would fain never cease
                    to do them; and when the hour for her journey arrived, the wrench of the first
                    roots she had ever struck in hearts and places, overwhelmed her with a girlish
                    sorrow, which, fortunately, was not put to such proof as an offer to remove it
                    would have been; for there is no saying how her wish to remain in the Convent
                    would have been modified, if the chaise into which she so sobbingly stepped had
                    been ordered back into its old remise.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER II.
                ON the English side of the Channel, which our heroine was about to
                    cross, a different scene was passing in the early life of one of the opposite
                    sex.
                A young man, four years older than Elinor (who was just seventeen), had passed
                    that summer a triumphant Examination at Oxford, and heaped on himself every
                    honour which it was possible for its young members to obtain. He had been
                    accustomed to success ever since he became a school?boy; and he was so far from
                    satiated by it, that he already looked upon all his achievements as mere marks
                    of past progress, and on himself as now about to begin the career which
                    contained objects really worthy of his ambition.
                
                He was an orphan, never acquainted with father or mother; wholly unconscious of
                    tender influences on his boyhood, and of domestic sympathy with his successes
                    and desires. He had come not to want them; disappointment he had not had, and
                    the hard measure of public applause suited him better than the fond
                    exaggerations of home, to which he had not grown up, nor been bettered by them.
                    Life was a fine, hard reality to him; he knew it, for evil and good, and while
                    he destroyed every illusion as fast as they courted him, he looked keenly to its
                    enjoyments and rated them by the vast power of pleasure within him which he
                    shared with most healthy and active human beings.
                He was passing some weeks at a country house, where his late very hard work gave
                    zest to the summer repose in which the old place lay buried. Long, solitary,
                    morning walks in the heavenly beauty of a hot July did his thinking faculties
                    good, after their late stretch upon other men’s thoughts. The society of well
                    educated women, their music, their vivacity,
                    their fancies; the riding parties, the evenings when there was dancing, or the
                    garden by moonlight, and the pleasure of pretending to feelings, and, as it
                    were, acting them, for they were no better to him than a play, these things
                    suited him for a little while, till the moment should come for executing the
                    projects in his head which would drive all the present scene far away.
                He had everything to recommend him to the world. A fine person, full of health
                    and strength, a fortune and a place which were competent to ordinary wishes, and
                    had been augmented by all the savings of a well managed minority; a high
                    reputation for ability; and natural claims on certain great names for assistance
                    in entering on his career. His manner was more taking than winning, he took hold
                    on society as if it were his due place, and his admirable tact made him hold it
                    gracefully, and to the delight of his companions.
                These qualities and advantages had made a strong impression on the fancy of
                        the young lady who presided over the house.
                    She was the owner’s sister, a few years older than my hero (whom I will call
                    Leslie, though I do not assert that such was indeed his name); she was handsome,
                    rich, and hitherto courted by all whom she had a mind should do so. But it was
                    not so with her present guest; he often seemed on the brink of fascination, and
                    then, like Sampson, burst the withies like burnt flax and was as free as ever.
                    The irritation of this state of things was excessive; she longed to break
                    through the feminine restraints which bound her, and ask him if indeed he cared
                    for her or not. The absolute impossibility of thus setting herself free was a
                    galling chain, for ever working on the wounded place; and the necessity of a
                    smiling face, and disengaged manner, at times when she was fretting at her
                    heart’s core, acquainted her with a torment which the daughters of Eve sometimes
                    heavily endure.
                “Let us ride this afternoon,” she said, one hot but cloudy day; “the air of the
                    house burns one.”
                
                “With all my heart,” said Leslie; “but we shall have a storm.”
                “I am not afraid,” said Laura.
                “Would I were quite sure that, in fact, you have no fears!”
                “Oh! I would tell them. I am very frank, I hate concealment. It is very hard on
                    women that they are required to be liars and deceivers.”
                “But that’s not the case,” said Leslie, “what is so delightful to a man as a
                    frank, open nature which prints its thoughts as fast as they come into the
                    mind.”
                “So you say, but you know it is not so—at least, not unless a woman has no
                    thought whatever, except the price of a dress or the hope of a ball.”
                “Oh, that would not pay the expense of printing or reading either,” said Leslie;
                    “but what has this to do with your first plan of riding? Shall we go?”
                “Yes; Mrs. Axross, you will ride? and Captain Bertham—ring; the horses are ready
                    in case we should want them. Come and put on your habit.”
                
                When they got on horseback, Leslie perversely kept with Mrs. Axross, a timid
                    horsewoman, and in consequence of being occupied with genuine fear, a rather
                    dull companion. They fell behind the others, whose horses stepped out freely
                    under lightly held bits, nor did Miss Chanson know how to alter the order of
                    their progress. When she contrived, under pretence of pointing out a view, or a
                    remarkable tree, to get back to the loiterers, she still found that Leslie
                    adhered to his first companion, and suffered her again to get before him.
                “How I hate a horse that can’t walk,” she said, at last, impatiently striking her
                    own, which bounded at the unjust assault and tossed his head angrily.
                “Well, then let us gallop,” said Leslie, laughing, for he read her heart exactly.
                    “My companion,” he added, as they went off, “thinks only of keeping her seat.
                    When she gets home safe, she will have fulfilled the sole purpose of riding
                    out.”
                “Well, I’m better than that,” said Laura, her spirits rising instantly, “I can
                    enjoy all when there is anything to enjoy—but
                    Captain Bertham is so stupid.”
                Leslie laughed again, for he knew that Captain Bertham did not deserve a reproach
                    of which he felt himself to be the indirect cause.
                “How can anyone be dull with you for a companion,” said he, again, as they
                    increased their pace and went gaily along. Laura was pleased, she did not
                    consider that she had provoked the compliment, and that it is only voluntary
                    attentions from a man that tell.
                “Here come the great raindrops,” said Leslie, as the first of the storm fell one
                    by one.
                “Oh, no! it is only the last of a shower. See, it is blowing over.”
                “I don’t see it at all, but if you order me to see it, I will.”
                “I do, then,” said Laura, gaily; “so let us go on.”
                “Was that lightning or not?” said Leslie, as a flash startled their horses, and
                    thunder rolled at a distance.
                
                “It was not,” said Laura; “come on.”
                “On, on, to the end of the world under your guidance.”
                But now the rain at once arrived and poured upon them.
                “What will Mrs. Axross do,” said Laura, laughing; “she will walk her horse all
                    the way home, for fear he should jump at the storm. We must turn back and look
                    for them.”
                Leslie rather wondered she should do so, instead of profiting by her present
                        tête?à?tête with him; but presently he
                    understood the manœuvre. When they came to a cross road, she examined the
                    footmarks on the road, and declared it was most extraordinary, but certainly
                    their companions had gone the wrong way.
                “They will get lost in the wood,” she said; “and what will Mr. Axross say, if we
                    go home without his wife? Let us canter up here and set them right. We shall
                    overtake them in a minute.”
                “You will be wet through,” said Leslie. “No, no, canter home!”
                
                “I don’t care; go home if you like.”
                “No, I am yours, to the very skin” said Leslie, venturing on a brutality.
                Miss Chanson did not look angry, and on they went, away from home. Presently a
                    little farmhouse appeared in sight.
                “They have taken shelter there,” said the lady, “no doubt. Come, let us see if
                    they are to be found;” and arriving at the door, she jumped from her horse,
                    saying to the farmer, who came out at the sound of horses, “My friends are here,
                    are not they? Come, Mr. Leslie.”
                He followed, after first putting the horses into the stable, and giving them over
                    to the care of the farmer’s boy, and found, his companion standing before the
                    kitchen fire, her hat off, her hair let down to dry, and her habit open.
                “The weather is too bad to stay in, is not it?” she said, as he came in. “Let us
                    wait till the storm goes by;” and she pulled her dress together.
                “A lucky storm for me,” said Leslie, glancing at her disarranged toilette.
                        “Why are these lovely tresses locked up in
                    ribbon and garlands—not always thus delightfully visible?”
                Laura affected embarrassment, and hastily twisted them in her hands, but yielded
                    to slight impulse from Leslie to release them. Finally she placed herself in a
                    very picturesque attitude on what is called the settle, by the fire, and Leslie
                    carried on briskly the conversation she affected.
                “All this time,” said he, at last, when the flirtation became a little wearisome,
                    “what is become of Mrs. Axross?”
                “I had almost forgotten her,” said Laura, softly, with a smothered sigh.
                “I had quite done so,” said Leslie, sighing also.
                “Only you recollected her,” said Laura, a little reproachfully.
                “Nay, the storm is over. It is getting late. I would not have you catch cold for
                    the world—I would not be responsible for the anxiety your absence will create—I
                    would not have you exposed to further rain—I would ......”
                
                “Get home in time for dinner,” interrupted Laura, very impatiently. Then checking
                    herself, she added, as gaily as she could, “which would be an excellent thing,
                    for I am very hungry.”
                “Then heaven forbid you should wait!” said Leslie. “I’ll fetch the horses in a
                    moment.”
                Accordingly he went himself to the stable, and forgot to lament the loss of the
                    beautiful curls, which were twisted under the hat when he came back; and placing
                    Laura on her horse, they rode home together, the lady feeling in herself that
                    hollowness in her satisfaction which comes when the foundation of a very gay and
                    promising structure wants perfect solidity.
                “How very handsome he is,” she said to herself, as she ran up the house?steps;
                    “how agreeable—and I don’t feel sure he will make himself agreeable next
                    time—that makes one curious to be with him again.”
                The butler stopped her in the hall, and said, “Miss Elinor Ladylift was
                    arrived.”
                “Ha! our little nun,” said she, turning back to
                    Mr. Leslie; “we did not expect her till to?morrow. Come and see her.”
                He followed her into the room, and saw standing by the table a young figure,
                    perfectly enveloped in a gray cloak, while a veil concealed her features from
                    any one at a little distance. The only characteristic which he could observe
                    was, that the flowers on the table trembled, as if the hand which rested on it
                    gave them that motion.
                “Oh! my dear, I did not know you would be here to?day. I beg your pardon for not
                    being here to receive you. You forgive me, don’t you?”
                “Yes!” said a low, timid voice.
                Miss Chanson laughed. “That’s all right! Then come along with me, for I am wet
                    through: you would not have me die of cold, would you?”
                “No!” said the voice.
                “Right, again! I’ll show you your room —but first I’ll present Mr. Leslie to you.
                    This is Mr. Leslie, my dear.”
                “Is it?” said the voice again.
                “Yes, indeed!” and again Laura laughed, looking
                    up at the young man sportively, and taking the girl’s arm went out of the room
                    with her. “There’s no fear that she will captivate any one whom I
                    choose for myself, especially such a man as that, so brilliant himself, and so
                    fond of intellect and manner,” thought she.
                That perfect security at first sight generally ends in a total contradiction. I
                    have remarked it as often as the case of security has taken place.
                “She is tired and frightened, and won’t come to dinner,” said Miss Chanson, as
                    she entered the drawing?room after dressing. “No wonder! the inside of a convent
                    is all she knows of life.”
                “What does she look like?” asked her brother, a man five?and?twenty years older
                    than the bright Laura, and an indifferent, idle bachelor, who disregarded his
                    appearance, and looked yet ten years older than he was, in consequence.
                “She is a pale, slight girl,” said Laura, “and expects to be devoured by all of
                    us. She has the least possible French accent, and moves about like a mouse.”
            
            
            
                CHAPTER III.
                THE next day, Elinor appeared at breakfast, coming into the room close
                    at the side of her hostess, to whom she clung, and sat down in the next chair,
                    which vexed Laura, for it was Mr. Leslie’s habitual place. He took the one below
                    Elinor, and endeavoured to engage her in conversation, but was received like an
                    enemy, and did not seek to avoid Miss Chanson’s looks of intelligence, who
                    remarked silently on the repulses he suffered.
                The impression on him, however, was not exactly what he allowed Laura to believe.
                    He remarked the delicate shape of the pale face, the ease of the slight figure,
                    the fine form of the hands, which, if not very white as yet, were formed in the
                    noblest feminine model. Her gray gown was
                    perfectly simple, and it was quite uninteresting to him whether it was cut
                    fashionably or unfashionably. The eyes, which were kept cast down on her plate
                    so pertinaciously, excited his curiosity; he wanted to find some phrase which
                    should raise them, that he might see them. Interest was awakened, but do and say
                    what he would, he never succeeded, during all that breakfast, in making her look
                    at him. She disappeared when it was over, and he saw her not again till after
                    dinner, when, on coming into the drawing?room, he found her seated close to Miss
                    Chanson, diligently at work. The latter was becoming a little tired of such
                    close companionship; she could not rise from her chair, but what Elinor did the
                    same, thereby preventing many manœuvres hitherto easy to practise.
                “My dear child, if you like that place, keep it,” said she; “the lamp suits your
                    work, and I must go to talk to that stupid old lady, whom it is my duty to
                    amuse.”
                “Shall I go,” said Elinor. “They always used to
                    send me to talk to Madame Les Forces.”
                “Did you succeed?” said Laura, laughing sarcastically.
                “Yes, sometimes.”
                “But you don’t know this lady—shall you have the courage?”
                “Why not?”
                “Nay, you will not speak one syllable to Mr. Leslie.”
                “No!”
                “And why?” said Laura. “I talk to him—we all talk.”
                “The Reverend Mother said I must not.”
                “Did she say you might speak to none but women?” said Leslie, very gently.
                “Yes!”
                “Oh! that’s excellent!” cried Laura. “My dear nun, you must get rid of some of
                    those maxims; you are in a very different place from your nunnery. Don’t make
                    yourself ridiculous.”
                The young girl coloured excessively; she was too young to bear being ridiculous,
                    too, fond of her habitual teachers to fancy they could be misinformed. She was perplexed, and rising,
                    shrank away to the stupid lady, whose work she began admiring; and as long as no
                    one else heard her voice, contrived to keep up a dialogue.
                “What a quaint little creature!” said Miss Chanson, “But now I’ll do my part to
                    amuse the other stupid people, by giving you all some music.”
                “Do,” said Mr. Leslie; “though you know I am so lost in dulness as to talk most
                    when music is best.”
                “I know that; but at all events I entertain you even in that case.”
                She said this rather sentimentally; and Mr. Leslie opened the piano?forte, and
                    talked a little nonsense while she arranged her books. When fairly embarked, and
                    when other people collected round her, and they were all interested with her
                    performance and their own, he drew gradually to the side of Elinor, and watched
                    his chance of speaking to her. She listened to the music, which was very good,
                    with great interest; but she drew away from
                    him, and he could do no better than some dialogue with the stupid old lady.
                At last, when there was a pause in the performance, he took up his courage, and
                    said boldly to Elinor, “You perceive, Miss Ladylift, that they are all tired,
                    and can play and sing no more. You ought to assist them—you ought to help in
                    amusing us all.”
                She rose in a moment, as if bound to obey whoever commanded her, and walked
                    towards the piano?forte.
                “Mr. Leslie told me I ought to sing,” she said. “Ought I?”
                “To be sure, if you can. But what—not psalm tunes?”
                “Very well, I will not. I know a great many airs which Frère du Lap taught all
                    the pensionnaires.”
                “I should like to hear Frère du Lap’s scholar very much,” said Laura.
                “Should you?” said Elinor, looking up at her, unconscious of the sarcasm; and she
                    placed herself before the piano?forte.
                Now nature had made her a present of a voice, such as she gives very rarely:
                    
                        “It were the bul?bul, but his throat,
                        Tho’ sweet, ne’er uttered such a note.”
                    
                It was no merit of Elinor’s; there seemed no object in bestowing it upon her; but
                    she was lucky in being the one to get it, for its effect was to dispose the
                    hearers to love her. It was as pure as the song of the angels heard by Handel,
                    and set down by him as sung to the Shepherds; it had been well taught, also, so
                    that it was a delight to the ear, a charm to the heart. Leslie, who was moving
                    away, stopped as she began to sing, and turned to fasten his eyes upon her, as
                    upon a new sense of delight, a pleasure revealed for the first time. She rose up
                    when it was done; indeed, she had not actually sat down, but had bent one knee
                    towards the level of the piano?forte, and played an accompaniment varying with
                    the words. She was plainly a perfect mistress of her art; and, according to the
                    fashion of drawing?rooms, her performance was greeted with clapping of hands,
                    and a few bravas. She looked round, astonished; and if any one had desired
                    another song, would have obeyed; but Miss
                    Chanson came up with the last notes, and after a brief thank you, led her away,
                    saying her voice seemed a little tired. She then organized other amusements, and
                    the music was over for the evening.
                Mr. Leslie contrived to elude them all, and very quietly coming up beside Elinor,
                    he said to her,
                “That song is one I shall never forget. I shall hear many more, I hope, but the
                    first time one listens to a perfect thing it is remembered for ever.”
                Elinor shook her head. “My Mother told me you would say so.”
                “That I should say so? How could the Holy Mother know anything of
                    me?”
                “Not of you, but of all.”
                “She could, only say that all of us should be aware you have one of the finest
                    voices in the world.”
                “Yes, she did say so—that you would try to persuade me of it.”
                “I don’t wish it to be thought of me that I would persuade any one to believe an
                    untrue thing. Let us consider for a moment,” and he sat down beside her at the table, leaning upon it, and trying to look in
                    her face, which was bent over her work. “You have heard the music of this
                    evening?”
                “Yes!”
                “It was very good, was it not?”
                “Very good, very strong; I never heard such before.”
                “But was there any voice as expressive as yours?”
                “No!”
                “Or that was so unlike a flute, or an organ, or a harp, but was so
                    purely human; the perfection of human.”
                “I cannot hear my own voice.”
                “Surely, Miss Ladylift, you can.”
                Elinor knew she could, and he put the question plainly. She suddenly lifted up
                    her large eyes upon him, and looked full into his for a moment—there was an
                    anxiety to penetrate his meaning, but it yielded in another instant to the dread
                    of encountering a stranger’s gaze; however, he had seen those large eyes.
                “You can if you will,” said he; “every? body can
                    judge themselves as well as they can judge other people, if they will be honest
                    to themselves. And it is not being honest, to think worse of oneself than is the
                    truth.”
                “My dear Mother told me my voice was such a voice as hundreds of others
                    have.”
                “But what do you think yourself?”
                “I believe her,” said Elinor.
                “Yes, surely,” answered Leslie, afraid of alarming his companion. “She spoke her
                    entire conviction, no doubt; still she judged from her Convent alone. There,
                    perhaps, where all is holy, all dedicated to divine things, the inhabitants may
                    be blessed, many of them, with gifts like the one you have in your voice; but it
                    is not so in the world. You are in the world now; you must judge by what you see
                    and hear; you may find there are things unlike those which the Reverend Mother
                    knows.”
                “Oh! she cannot be mistaken,” said Elinor.
                “Only ask yourself whether she is,” said Leslie. “If so, some things
                    which were good guides in the convent, may lead wrong here.”
                
                Elinor answered nothing. The first doubt of the kind was painful, the more so
                    because her honest nature saw that perhaps it was true.
                After a pause, she said, “Who can I trust, then?”
                “I know this outer world,” said Leslie.
                “But I do not know you,” said Elinor; “I know nobody. I will do my
                    best; you must not try to prevent me. If you liked my singing, I am glad of
                    that; but perhaps you do not understand music, and then you cannot judge.”
                “No, perhaps I do not,” said Leslie; “you know I can only say what I honestly
                    feel.”
                “Yes, to be sure! I know you do that. Everybody does that,” said Elinor, speaking
                    as she had been unconsciously taught, and as she felt, that though there were
                    wicked people in the world, nobody with whom one associates could be in the
                    number of those wicked.
                Mr. Leslie abhorred Laura for coming up and interrupting the conversation. She
                    said she was sorry to see Elinor look so pale; no doubt she was used to very
                    early hours in the Convent, and she had better
                    go to bed. She did not say she thought her young friend tired; for knowing her
                    not to be tired, she felt that Elinor would say No.
                “You have persuaded the nun to talk, Mr. Leslie,” said she; “how clever you
                    are.”
                “It gives one an interest in succeeding, when the task is so difficult,” said Mr.
                    Leslie.
                “No doubt; a woman who has the audacity to know or feel anything, and to say it,
                    must expect the contempt of the nobler sex.”
                “Why so?,” said Leslie, coolly.
                “Men are so short?sighted, so easily taken in. If women affect simplicity and
                    reserve, men see no further than just what those women give themselves the
                    trouble to put on.”
                “Is that little girl a dissembler?”
                “Oh! I suppose you can judge.”
                “I should judge not; but you know best.”
                “If I knew anything, I would not say it against my friend,” said Laura. “My
                    nature is more constant than that.”
                “More generous than that,” said Leslie; “constant is not the word, for your
                    acquaintance is so short. It is indeed very generous.”
                
                Laura liked the words, and did not understand further, and though she was not
                    satisfied, she went away fancying she was.
                Next morning, every one else being occupied in their rooms with what
                    letter?writing or other business they might have, Laura, who could not lose any
                    chance of being with Leslie, and Leslie, who could lose none of being with
                    Elinor, and Elinor, who fixed herself upon Laura as her best safety in the new
                    scenes, were all three in the library, standing about, looking at a print or a
                    flower, and not knowing very well what to do. Elinor only was at ease, knitting
                    gloves, move where she would.
                “Suppose,” said Leslie, “we show the wood?walk to Miss Ladylift. Would it not be
                    a good employment of this delightful morning?”
                Laura assented; that WE sounded so pleasantly to her.
                Accordingly, each lady took up a parasol in the hall, and they all stepped into
                    the perfumed air, and proceeded down some broad steps, which led from the garden
                    to the steep wooded banks below the house.
                    Elinor was delighted: the space, the depth below, the vast summer hall made by
                    the wood, and the pavement of ferns, flowers, and briar, over which the shadows
                    of the leaves scattered their moving patterns; the silence which seemed to come
                    from far, and go afar, charmed her opening imagination. As they proceeded, a
                    vague feeling of fear mingled with her pleasure. She had never known the sense
                    of distance before.
                “Shall we know how to go back,” said she; “but no doubt you
                    will.”
                “No fear of that,” said Laura, looking behind at the walk they had come along;
                    “the way is not difficult.”
                “And may you go here as far as you like?” said Elinor, thinking of her Convent
                    restrictions.
                “Who can doubt that?” said Laura, scornfully; “or that you may do so
                    likewise? In a Convent they are children all their lives; but you must take off
                    your leading?strings.”
                Elinor, till now, had never ceased to lean on
                    some one for every action of her life. Yet she got a lesson then which went
                    straight home, not to betray her want of help to those who could scoff her for
                    it.
                Leslie thought that the sooner she learned to doubt her former teachers the
                    better. He had an idea he could give her lessons himself. They went on,
                    therefore, on and on till Elinor, who had never known what it was to take a
                    walk, was tired. She longed intensely for rest; her limbs ached; they required
                    absolutely the new stringing of 
                        repose
                        respose
                    . Leslie observed it, and proposed to sit down, but Laura poured forth
                    her playful scorn upon a girl who pretended not to be up to a mile?and?a?half
                    walk. As for herself, she must confess to strength—half?a?dozen miles were
                    nothing to her. Elinor felt ashamed; but was unconscious that Laura meant to
                    insinuate that the fatigue was affected.
                “I wish I could do like you,” she said; “but I have not learned to walk.”
                “Dear baby,” said Laura; “still at nurse? I wish I could carry you!”
                Elinor looked at each companion, with the
                    mournful simplicity of a child who has committed a fault it does not comprehend.
                    Leslie was enchanted.
                “It is a science you must practise,” said he. “It was a fault not to have
                    attended to your education in that respect.”
                Elinor was quite ready to acknowledge herself wrong, and to feel inwardly that
                    her bringing up was not so faultless as she had thought.
                At this moment, however, her wishes were all limited to rest, and gladly did she
                    sink upon the seat at which Leslie prevailed on Laura to stop; but Laura was so
                    restless, that Leslie at last started up with a new project in his head, and
                    proposed that they two alone should make for the point at which Laura had
                    intended to reach, and should leave their companion to enjoy a little repose
                    before they returned for her to go home.
                “Unless you are afraid,” said Laura, turning round on Elinor.
                “No, I am not afraid, for you say there is no danger,” said Elinor.
                And now Leslie hurried his companion away, and
                    pushing himself into the highest spirits, rallied her on her activity, her
                    delightful health and strength, till Laura, quite deceived, quickened her pace
                    to the very utmost, and went over hill and dale at his side, with no idea but
                    that of keeping up the contrast between herself and the timid Elinor.
                It was not till he had carried her along with him to a point much nearer to the
                    house than to Elinor, that he suddenly affected to remember their charge.
                “Meantime, what have we done with your ward, your nursling? Is not it time to go
                    back for her?”
                He was well aware at this moment that Laura was most thoroughly wearied herself,
                    and that by a little contrivance he was secure of going alone to conduct the
                    young nun home again.
                “What! had you forgotten her?” said Laura.
                “Could I think of more than one?” said Leslie, with a look of gentleness.
                “And that one was of course absent,” said Laura.
                
                “Ah! I see,” said Leslie, affecting a little pique, “that I am little understood. But at this moment,” he
                    added, quieting his voice, “however that may be, we must run back to take up our
                    charge, for do you know what o’clock it is?”
                Laura looked at her watch.
                “Why did you allow me to forget time in this way?” said she.
                “Was I likely to remind you?” said Leslie. “But at all events I will repair my
                    error, at whatever sacrifice. I will force myself”—“from you,” he thought of
                    saying, but that was rather too strong an expression to come easily, so he began
                    again—“I will force myself through the world of briars by the brook side, which
                    will take me back to Miss Ladylift more quickly than the path we have followed,
                    and I will bring her to join you by the garden road, which is, I suppose, the
                    nearest way to the house. Even your delightful intrepidity would shrink from the
                    brook side, and, indeed, should it be otherwise, I would not permit you to
                    hazard yourself so perilously.”
                
                He was on his feet as he said this, and Laura, heated and wearied, could do
                    nothing but agree; he looked back as he plunged into the thicket, and waving his
                    hand, saw, and smiled to see, that she was waiting for some such token, and then
                    sank upon the bench almost as weary as Elinor had been.
                It was very easy for him to force his way along the brook, over great stones, and
                    among tangled creepers and underwood; and indeed, his desire to reach the place
                    where he had left Elinor, made these obstacles almost unperceived, and brought
                    him, in a very short time, straight to the root?house in which they had parted
                    from her. He hoped she would be panting with alarm, and crouching almost weeping
                    for the want of some one to reassure her; certainly she would not have ventured
                    back alone. Could he see her white dress? not yet, trees were in the way; he
                    could not see it—she was not there—yes, yes, quite in the corner, there was some
                    one. Now, how gently he would he comfort her, and she would cling to his
                    arm.
                But there was no such scene in store for him.
                    Elinor, as though confiding in the assurance of safety she had received, had
                    laid her cheek upon her arm and had fallen asleep. The shadow of the root?house
                    had probably fostered the inclination of her eyes to close; her lips were
                    parted, her hair pushed off her face, her colour heightened by the heat; she lay
                    or reclined there, at rest, and Leslie paused suddenly as he perceived her
                    sleeping figure. But the presence of a human being, the involuntary motions of
                    life near her broke her slumber; she opened her eyes, and the habitual
                    associations of her education, caused her a burst of alarm as she perceived who
                    was so close to her. She sprang up and a step or two away from him.
                “Oh, do not harm me!” she cried, involuntarily; then she collected her senses,
                    and a deep blush spread over her face.
                “I would die sooner than harm you!” cried Leslie, fervently; but approaching no
                    nearer than where he stood when she sprang up.
                “I came,” he added, after a pause, “I came to be of use, if possible. Miss
                    Chanson is gone home, and I will take you to her.”
                
                “You need not,” said Elinor, “she told me the way was very easy to find—I can
                    find the way.”
                “But, why should I not?” said Leslie. “I left Miss Chanson on purpose to be of
                    use to you. She did not despise my services, and she thought
                        you would not.”
                “Oh, I do not even think of such a word,” said Elinor, coming a step nearer.
                “That is the only feeling that can make you refuse so very common a service,”
                    said Leslie, trying to wear an air of proud humiliation.
                “Indeed, indeed, not! but I did not know—I thought—I had better go home alone.”
                    So you had, innocent Elinor, but he cared not for that.
                “If you so much dislike me as a companion,” said Leslie, “I will go.”
                “I cannot dislike you,” said Elinor; “it would be wrong to dislike anybody.”
                “I thought you did,” said Leslie; “still, in order to be of any use to you, I
                    came to see whether you were still here.”
                “That was good of you, very good, thank you,”
                    said Elinor; “it was doing me good even when you thought so ill of me—when you
                    thought I was so unjust. Pray forgive me.”
                “Yes, surely,” said Leslie, holding out his hand.
                She looked him steadily in the face for a few seconds, and then took his
                    hand.
                “You cannot think I would harm you now,” said Leslie; “what your Reverend Mother
                    said in the Convent, did not mean me.”
                “No, you are not what she meant. She said I should be told of merits I had not,
                    but you tell me of my faults.”
                “You see, then, that Miss Chanson and others, every one, in fact, is right in
                    making me a companion. Till you came here nobody guessed it could be wrong. You
                    have brought your own ideas among us.”
                “Oh, no, don’t say that; I did not mean it. I did not know what people did here,
                    that is all.”
                “Exactly,” said Leslie; “and now shall we go home?”
                
                “Yes, if you please,” said Elinor. She took up her parasol and they walked
                    leisurely along.
                “You never,” said her companion, “saw forests, and great open skies, and plains,
                    in the Convent?”
                “Never,” said Elinor. “But we walked in the garden, and might sow flower seeds,
                    and have beautiful flowers, and sometimes we went to the common, and the
                    hill.”
                “Did you read sometimes of other fine things, such as these woods?”
                “Yes.”
                “Are they like what you expected?”
                “No, I did not know how beautiful they are.”
                “I should like to show you what I saw as I came up the brook,” said Leslie; “you
                    are not tired now, are you? Will you come a little out of the way?”
                Elinor assented, eagerly, wishing to atone for having been tired once to?day.
                    Leslie went off the path, and she followed, till the bank became steep and very
                    inconvenient. Then he held out his hand and she leaned upon it as if it had been a helping stick; she wanted
                    it again, up a few steep stones in the bank, and when she was at the top of
                    those she came upon a sight which made her pluck away her hand altogether to
                    fold both in speechless delight. The brook just in front of her came down under
                    rocks which nearly met above it, and leaped about twenty feet from the edge of
                    its bed to the pool below. The white foam, the graceful motion and shape, the
                    sweet confusing sound, the freshness, took her very soul by surprise, and she
                    was melted to tears.
                “There—I knew I should give you pleasure,” said Leslie; “that is why I brought
                    you here.”
                “But so much pleasure is wrong, is not it?” said Elinor. “I learned in my lessons
                    that St. Francis, when he crossed some mountains which were very beautiful, kept
                    his eyes always on the ground not to see them.”
                Leslie did not say aloud, “Abject fool!” he said it only to himself; to Elinor he
                    said, “I should think that very wicked, because
                    his Creator offered him the pleasure, and he would not take it.”
                “What do you mean?”. said Elinor, aghast. “It is the waterfall gives me
                    pleasure.”
                “Still,” said Leslie, “it has got no pleasure of its own.”
                “Has not it? yes—no—yes, it pleases me, it delights me.”
                “But it runs on day and night without being happy.”
                “That is because it is not alive.”
                “It runs over the rock because water must fall when it comes to a height, and it
                    makes a noise because any one thing filling on another must make a noise, and
                    the trees grow over it, because there were seeds from which they sprang; but
                    they are all dead, as you say, and not happy. The pleasure is something
                    different from all those things. It is in your mind. It is a gift to you,
                    conveyed by things which have it not, and, therefore, a gift for which you ought
                    to be grateful and use it.”
                “Could St. Francis be wrong?” said Elinor.
                
                “Nay, I really think if you were to refuse to look at all this, you would be
                    ungrateful to me, who brought you here, in the first place, and much more you
                    ought to enjoy it, when you are so made that your nature is to enjoy.”
                “You think I may like it as much as I can?”
                “Ay, freely, freely; whatever is pleasant is in your nature to enjoy.”
                “Whatever is pleasant?” said Elinor, reflecting on the many things, the late
                    rising, the neglected task, the idle play, the lingering over her toilette,
                    which were pleasant but which she had been told were wrong, and warned against
                    the pleasure of them. Leslie enjoyed the confusion into which she was
                    running.
                “Why, so it seems to me,” said he, with a candid tone.
                Elinor was silent; he was no longer in haste to proceed, he lingered with her,
                    teaching her that pleasure was her lawful guide; and when, at last, they went
                    forward, moved as slowly as she was inclined to move and wore away the time, so that when they got back to the
                    house, Laura had, long before, been compelled to give up waiting for them; had
                    gone in alone, had been forced to preside over luncheon and to eat with the
                    rest, or affect to eat, and after delaying to the utmost, had been driven from
                    all excuses, and forced to bid the servants bring round, the carriage,
                    previously ordered for an expedition. Just as she and her guests were going
                    through the hall to set out, Mr. Leslie appeared alone coming up to the door. A
                    sudden hope shot through Laura’s heart that he had been alone since she left
                    him. Elinor might have lost her way in the wood, but of course she would soon be
                    found; and with all this unworded she accosted him.
                “So; have you been looking for her all this time ......”
                “For Miss Ladylift? oh, no’; I brought her home very slowly, for she was so much
                    tired. She went through the breakfast parlour to her own room”
                “Slowly, indeed!” said Laura, disdainfully; “you have been two hours and a half
                    on the way.”
                
                “To me it seemed twice that,” said Leslie, in a very low voice. Laura’s lips
                    relaxed by a line, no more.
                “You will come with us?” said she, looking at the phaeton which followed the
                    great barouche, and in which, if he liked, he might offer to drive her.
                “That would be most delightful,” said Leslie, “but I had not time for my letters
                    this morning. I must write them to?day—besides I must get a crust of bread;
                    besides I am in no condition to sit by the side of delicate silks. No, I must
                    sacrifice that happiness.”
                Laura tossed her head, and turned away; and Leslie was very glad to have got off
                    this tax upon him.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER IV.
                LAURA’S anger and jealousy were almost more than she could bear. She
                    learned to know that beating heart, that dry mouth, that distaste to food, that
                    early waking and no more falling asleep, which make up the personal sufferings
                    of mental anguish. She had to talk, to listen, to make music, while intensely
                    preoccupied; and she had the pain of perceiving that Leslie grew more and more
                    indifferent to keeping up the appearances of devotion to herself, and became,
                    like her, absorbed by one object, but that object was not Laura Chanson.
                Little incidents of this kind altered the position of the three persons whom we
                    have presented to the reader. From a forlorn stranger, Elinor began to feel
                    herself familiarised with persons and things, and to be aware that many were more favourable to her than the
                    mistress of the house, whom she had looked upon as about to take the place of
                    the Superior in her Convent.
                Leslie, who had thought of nothing but amusing himself for a month or so,
                    gradually found himself interested in a pursuit, which, at present, had the
                    charm of novelty in the object, besides its difficulty. He reflected as little
                    on the suffering he might inflict on the person to whom he had hitherto devoted
                    himself, as on those which in future he might leave with the defenceless girl
                    whom he at present worshipped; meantime, the suffering which Laura endured was
                    very real, whether she were justified in having exposed herself to it or not.
                    The young girl who had unconsciously taken her place was hateful to Laura; it
                    was difficult to keep up the appearance of interest and tender protection which
                    had been their first relation to each other. She justified her altered feelings
                    to herself by saying that severity was necessary to teach Elinor something of
                    the ways of the world she had to move in, and to correct the mistakes into which her Convent life led her;
                    and, in fact, Elinor had great need of superintendence; for with all her early
                    impressions wrecking around her, she did not know to what to cling, or where to
                    stop, or how go back. They had laughed at her prudery, and in the innocence of
                    her nature she did not now know what difference to make between Leslie and
                    Laura; between Mr. Chanson, her elderly guardian, and Leslie, her young adorer.
                    That Leslie was more good?natured to her than anybody else she was certain, and
                    if she wanted any advice or service, she supposed that she might as well ask him
                    for either; not to ask him would show that long?taught horror of
                    man which she haft just recently been made ashamed of.
                In this embarrassment of perception she, one morning, brought into the library a
                    heavy packet, containing letters which she had written to her Convent; and the
                    first person from whom she made an inquiry how to effect its transmission, was
                    Laura. But Laura was supercilious.
                “Leave it on the table, child, with the other
                    letters. There is no need to make a fuss about posting a letter.”
                Elinor coloured and did as she was bid. But she was not satisfied, and after a
                    short, silent bit of doubt, she looked round for some kinder listener, and
                    turning her shy eyes to Mr. Leslie, saw that though he had a book in his hand,
                    and his head was bent towards it, he was, in fact, looking at her. Elinor’s
                    colour rose again, for shame that she had been ashamed to appeal at once to him;
                    and avoiding the appearance of mistrust for which she had been laughed at, she
                    smiled directly that she caught his glance, and went up to him as if he had been
                    Sister Françoise or Sister Jeanne, and in a very low voice asked him what she
                    should do. He was fully disposed to make it a serious affair, that he might be
                    able to confer an obligation by arranging it, and rising, took it (Elinor
                    following him) into the recess of the window and there examined the packet.
                “It will not go by the post without a little trouble,” said he; “it weighs, I
                    should think, six ordinary letters.”
                
                “I dare say; for I have written to so many of them,” said Elinor.
                “It must be paid before it leaves England,” said Leslie. “The postman will not
                    know how much to charge. We ought to put it into the office ourselves.”
                “How can I do that? It is so far to the town,” said Elinor.
                “Is not it possible Miss Chanson may intend to drive or ride there?” suggested
                    Leslie.
                “Shall I ask her?”
                “Do;” and he watched her timid advance to Laura, whom she instinctively began to
                    feel was not likely to look very benignantly on a request of her’s.
                “No, it’s not possible,” he heard Laura say, and he concluded that
                    she had heard the words which he himself had used. Laura said nothing more, for
                    or against, and went on reading her book, the pages of which she turned
                    tempestuously. Elinor said nothing, but again looked to Leslie, who, by a
                    gesture, invited her to return to the window.
                “If you will trust me,” said he, “I have thought
                    how to manage it; since there is no chance of Miss Chanson going to the post
                    town, I will ride over there at once, and if I go quickly, I shall be in time
                    for the foreign mail which goes out this morning.”
                “Does it?” said Elinor.
                “Yes, I feel quite sure of that, and I will post and pay your letter, and make it
                    quite sure of reaching the hands of these dear Sisters.”
                “Oh, will you?” said Elinor; “how very good?natured you are. Only do you not want
                    to do something else? I am afraid this is so much trouble.”
                “No, a pleasure,” said Leslie; then moderating his tone, he added, “I like an
                    early ride; I want one to put me in high force this morning.”
                “That’s very lucky,” said the literal Elinor. “Tell me what it will cost,” and
                    she took out her purse. Leslie’s heart smote him he saw that slender purse so
                    slenderly provided. It was too much in keeping with the defenceless state and
                    nature of that fair piece of human porcelain.
                
                “Oh, not much. I will take care it goes safely.”
                “But I must pay it,” said Elinor, earnestly. “The Reverend Mother
                    told me never to run in debt, especially ......”
                “To the monster man,” said Leslie, finishing the phrase she 
                        broke
                        boke
                     off, and smiling.
                Elinor again was ashamed of a good lesson. She did not know what guidance to
                    follow; plainly she felt herself laughed at, and that was painful. She slid back
                    her purse into the pocket of her apron, and stood again like a puzzled, penitent
                    child.
                “Such a nothing of a debt,” said Leslie, “only give me the letter.” He took it,
                    and moving away to Mr. Chanson’s room, which opened from the library, asked him
                    if he could have a horse, and then returning, told Laura he was going to
                    Cantleton and inquired if he could do anything for her.
                “I thought,” said Laura, smiling painfully, “we were all to ride to the Hollow
                    Glen.”
                “True, I had forgotten; but it will make no difference will it, if I am
                    absent?”
                “None,” said Laura, “of course. One’s guests, of
                    course, amuse themselves if their host cannot do it.”
                Leslie gave a deprecating “No, no;” and added, “Guests who do that, are not
                    worthy of being received; but I really have a little business.”
                Laura laughed scornfully, she could not repress her irritation. “Selfish
                    business, purely?” said she, interrogating.
                Elinor heard all this and was very much grieved that his good?nature to her
                    should bring this reproach upon him. She knew it was wrong to let another suffer
                    in one’s place and spoke bravely out.
                “He is not selfish, he is going to take care of my letter.”
                Leslie himself coloured at this sudden shifting of the ground under his feet, and
                    Laura burst into that insolent laugh which bows down all but such as can laugh
                    insolently in return. The moisture which precedes tears came into Elinor’s eyes.
                    She turned partly away, and Leslie could not but gaze on the innocent pretty
                    picture she made.
                “Don’t let me detain you, Mr. Letter? carrier”
                    said Laura. “I was not aware of your new office. You came here as an independent
                    gentleman, but a new character ......”
                “Does what?” said Leslie, after a silent pause.
                “Nay, nothing at all—only I thought you were not listening to me, your attention
                    seemed elsewhere.”
                “Oh! don’t doubt that whatever Miss Chanson says, or even hints, has my best
                    attention and consideration. I’ll go now—pray excuse me.”
                “By all means. I wish you to ...... do as you like,” said Laura, abruptly; and he
                    saw her lip tremble.
                “Poor Elinor!” thought he, looking back, “what will you make of the scolding you
                    are about to get.” And a scolding it was, indeed. Not that Laura intended it
                    when she began, but she lost her self?command as she talked; and the anguish
                    which she endured, through Elinor, made her blind to the innocence, and deaf to
                    the guileless purity of the young girl.
                “I don’t know, Elinor,” she began, “whether you think it quite proper to send
                    one’s acquaintances all over the country on
                    your errands; for my part, I know I should be heartily ashamed of
                    doing so.”
                “Oh, my dear Miss Chanson, was it wrong?”
                “Heartily ashamed, that’s all I can say; and so would any one with the least
                    sense of decency,” said Laura, beginning to tremble. “But you have your own
                    notions, doubtless.”
                “No, indeed, indeed!”
                “And to give yourself such airs in another person’s house—commanding everything
                    as if it were your own, and more than if it were your own. The horses, the
                    servants, the very guests, all to be at your command. You are to send our guests
                    just to carry your letters to the post. I think what serves our letters might
                    serve yours.”
                “I wish I had known—I am very, very sorry.”
                “What made you fix on Mr. Leslie for your confidant, pray. Was it because you
                    found him here, interested ...... I mean that you thought him not likely to
                    devote himself sufficiently to your superior merits, unless specially invited.
                    You need not cry, it is no use to pretend one
                    thing and do another; men are always taken in by anybody who gives themselves
                    the trouble, and for my part, I warn you that they will only despise you, they
                    will find out ..... in fact, I see through you as if you were glass.”
                “I wish I could see myself and know how I have offended you,” said Elinor,
                    weeping.
                “Me offended! oh, dear me, not I! Mr. Leslie is as perfectly indifferent to me,
                    as you are. I only warn you for your own sake that you are acting as not another
                    young girl in all the whole of England would dare to act.”
                So saying, Laura fled from the room, for she could contain herself no longer; and
                    while Elinor wept silently in the library, Laura sobbed aloud in her boudoir,
                    the door of which she had banged behind her and fastened with a double turn of
                    the key.
                Elinor had a guiltless conscience in her favour, and recovered first; but she was
                    very unhappy, and being ignorant as to what she had done wrong she resolved
                    first to beg Mr. Leslie’s pardon, and then to entreat his assistance in explaining to her the course of conduct
                    which would be doing right. She stole up the back staircase to her room; bathed
                    her face as she had often done in the pupils’ room in the Convent, when she had
                    been scolded and wanted to avoid the imputation of resenting the scolding; and
                    putting on her bonnet and gray cloak, went dejectedly down again, and glided by
                    the most sequestered ways she could find, towards the gate of the park by which
                    she believed Mr. Leslie would return. Here she sat down, patiently to wait for
                    him, and screened herself from observation by choosing her seat among some
                    drooping elms, whose long branches, as one sees sometimes with the elm tree, had
                    turned downwards soon after leaving the stem, and bowed themselves to the
                    ground, as if kneeling.
                But, patient as she was, and used to waiting, the length of time she remained
                    there, during which there was nothing coming, made her first uneasy, and at last
                    anxious. She got up and walked into the road, whence she could command a long
                    sight of the highway beyond the gates, and
                    still, when all was blank, returned to her seat, and resumed the paper?mark she
                    was plaiting in the shape of a cross. The woman who kept the lodge had seen this
                    manœuvre more than once, and at last, in the civility of her heart, came out as
                    Elinor again looked down the road, and asked if she was pleased to be waiting
                    for some body.
                “No,” said Elinor; “only I think Mr. Leslie will return this way from Cantleton;”
                    and as she said his name, she blushed deeply as young girls will do, at sight or
                    at speaking of a young acquaintance of the opposite sex, though as heart?whole
                    as a bird just fledged, on the edge of its nest.
                The old woman laughed in a motherly way. “Oh! that’s it,” said she. “I did not
                    know, miss; you will be pleased to forgive me,” and she withdrew to her cottage,
                    and Elinor to her tree, puzzled again, and but half liking what she did not
                    understand in the old woman.
                It was an hour and a half after she had come to the spot, when she heard the trot
                        of horses’ feet, at which her heart gave a
                    bound, but directly the sound of wheels became audible, and the next bound of
                    her heart was what might be called in the opposite direction. She went further
                    under the trees, and saw Laura and others on horseback, and a carriage
                    following, all making towards the Lodge at a good, exhilarating pace. As they
                    approached it, she perceived Mr. Leslie coming in the opposite direction, and
                    both parties stopped and had some communion together. What they said she did not
                    know, but she perceived some laughter, some gestures of expostulation, and that
                    Laura, after great apparent earnestness, suddenly jerked away her horse, and set
                    off at an actual gallop; while Mr. Leslie, who she supposed had refused their
                    invitation to join them, waved his hand to them, and came alone, and slowly,
                    along the road in the park.
                Without the least hesitation. or embarrassment, Elinor came forward from the
                    trees, and caught his sight, making a motion inviting him to speak to her. He
                    immediately rode up to the place where she stood, and dismounting, eagerly told her what he really had
                    done, and a great deal more which he claimed to have done for her. Elinor was
                    more and more troubled, and as soon as he would hear her, professed her regret
                    at having thus employed him, in so penitent a manner, that the tears again rose
                    to her eyes, and in his heart arose a tender pity, which made him
                    ready to fall down at her feet, and raise her by his humble love above all claim
                    and all necessity for pity.
                “I who have been so happy to be employed by you! who felt it such a kindness on
                    your part to a man who has no friends, who wants so much a little sympathy, who
                    would be glad to earn a kind ‘Thank you’ at any sacrifice, much more by the
                    merest commonplace service. Ah, Miss Ladylift! ah, Elinor! do not talk so, do
                    not think in this way. Who can have led you to such thoughts?”
                “Alas! Miss Chanson was very angry with me. She told me no girl in England would
                    be so bold, especially with you.”
                “Did she; was it any consideration for me. Did she tell you that it was from
                    consideration—from any regard to me, then?”
                
                “No! no! She said she did not care for you—it was all on my own account.”
                “Ha! ha!” said Leslie, “she said so. Then I think it is time for me to go
                    away.”
                “You go away! are you then really angry with me?”
                “Oh! I beseech you, do not say, do not think such harsh, hard words,” said
                    Leslie, taking her hand, and gently leading her further into the wood.
                They walked on together side by side, deeply engaged in conversation, in which
                    Elinor’s defencelessness touched Leslie’s heart with more of good emotion than
                    he had known could dwell there. Yet he enjoyed involving her in a situation
                    which depended upon himself to make it safe or dangerous, and which, at all
                    events, was one in which she compromised herself with the prudent, and those who
                    had more habit of the world than she. He perceived her perfect innocence of
                    every such notion, and was every moment renewing a compact with himself to hold
                    her in reverence. Yet he secured her hand on his arm—he could not keep
                        himself from touching the fingers that lay
                    there, from gently pressing the arm which touched his own. A trifling
                    circumstance did more to check him than all his good resolutions. This was his
                    horse, whose bridle he held, and whose uneven pace had constantly to be
                    regulated; sometimes it would start forward, and annoy its master with a
                    threatened invasion of his toes; sometimes stop to snatch at a bough, and when
                    jerked on again, would shake its head, and flourish in the air in a manner
                    dangerous to its safe keeping by the bridle.
                Elinor’s attention was diverted from her own griefs, and Leslie’s sympathy, by
                    the manœuvres of the horse. With the tears in her eyes, she was provoked to
                    laughter at its perversity; and when most grateful for Leslie’s assurance of
                    friendship and support, could not help turning their talk to the horse’s
                    entertaining movements. Leslie hated the animal; and, at last, to keep the
                    conversation in the train which pleased him, he invited Elinor to sit down
                    beneath a tree far and deep in the wood; where, having fastened his tiresome
                    animal to one at a distance, he returned and
                    placed himself by her, distant from all the eyes that should have been guarding
                    her, and undefended by any inward consciousness of being where she needed
                    defence.
                “When I am gone,” he said, “and go I must, will you think of me?—will you
                    remember the friend to whom you can always apply?”
                “Yes, yes!” said Elinor; “there is no danger that I should do otherwise, for it
                    is you only who tell me what I ought to do, who show me kindly where I am
                    wrong.”
                “And if you want advice,” said Leslie—and there he hesitated, whether indeed to
                    ask her to enter into secret correspondence with him.
                “I can write to you, if you will tell me your direction,” said Elinor.
                “Divine Elinor!” cried Leslie, carried away with delicious surprise; and suddenly
                    lifting the hand he held to his lips, he kissed it fervidly, so that in
                    astonishment she drew it away, and a smile came for an instant over her
                    mouth.
                Leslie looked down at her with delight; he drew
                    still nearer to her, when the sound of rustling boughs smote his ear, and then
                    the voice of the Squire—of Mr. Chanson, of Elinor’s guardian—broke upon
                    them.
                “Hey!—what’s this? You and Miss Ladylift out in the wood, here?”—he was not a man
                    of words.
                Leslie started up; Elinor kept her seat.
                “Yes; I came this way to enjoy the shade, and Miss Ladylift had done the same. I
                    met with her a moment ago, and was about to show her the nearest way home.”
                Elinor listened with wonder. She thought certainly Leslie had forgotten that she
                    had come to meet him near the lodge, and that they had spent an hour in walking
                    to the spot together, without any reference to going home; however, she heard
                    him as children hear their elders say things they have themselves been taught
                    not to say, and unconsciously they take a lesson in the difference between
                    learning and practising.
                Mr. Chanson asked no more; he only held out his arm to her, and said,
                “Come home with me. Laura ought to have been
                    with you.” He had a fishing?rod in the other hand, and had been making his way
                    to the brook.
                “Miss Chanson is out riding,” said Elinor.
                “And why did not you go? What made you wander to this out?of?the?way place?”
                Elinor hesitated; she did not like to say she had been scolded, and had crept
                    away.
                Mr. Chanson thought she had made an appointment with Leslie, and that her
                    embarrassment came from that consciousness.
                “Well, well!” said he. “Mr. Leslie, you had better look after your horse. That’s
                    your best way home—along the green path, there. I’ll take her over the brook by
                    the foot?bridge. Now then!”
                And he walked forward, Elinor very willing to go with him, but looking back to
                    see how Leslie got up to the horse, which was drawing away, and shying at his
                    approach.
                “Never mind that,” said the Squire; “you must not be wandering about
                    in this style. I’ll talk to Laura.”
            
            
            
                CHAPTER V.
                LESLIE had become aware that his presence had become unacceptable to the
                    mistress of the house, or rather that his behaviour made it so, and therefore
                    that it was time he should go. Her evident pique, which he had understood from
                    Elinor’s report of her conversation with Laura, had confirmed this resolution,
                    and he had determined to “have found letters at Cantleton” which required his
                    presence elsewhere, even before the Squire looked so grim at him for being alone
                    with Elinor in the wood.
                At dinner, therefore, he avoided sitting by Elinor, made himself as agreeable to
                    Laura as her anger would allow, and before the ladies withdrew, told her he must
                    leave Chan? son Wood next morning. Laura
                    believed not one word of the story of the letters. She had heard her brother’s
                    report, and when he upbraided her with neglect of her charge, had given him to
                    understand that the young girl chose to manage her own concerns, and was
                    amenable neither to reproof nor persuasion. The Squire had guilelessly believed
                    her, inclined the more to do so by what he had himself remarked; and Laura,
                    strong in the impression she had then made, had courage to attempt the same
                    thing with Leslie.
                “I am sorry,” said she, with a voice in which it was easy to perceive emotion,
                    for his departure touched the sorest place in her heart, “I am very sorry that
                    you have found reason to leave us.”
                “Indeed, so am I. I have enjoyed the visit so much, that it is odious to me to
                    learn from my letters ...... ”
                “From them all?” said Laura, smiling sadly enough. “No, no! it’s not your
                    letters.”
                “And what is it, then?” said Leslie, abruptly, and colouring.
                “Why should not you treat me as a friend?” said
                    Laura. “But I have no right to intrude on your secrets.”
                “I’ve no secrets,” said Leslie, mounting higher on his high horse.
                “I will not ask any,” said Laura; “only I cannot bear to see a friend I value
                    suffering from capricious power.”
                “You speak in enigmas,” said Leslie. “I am not suffering at all, that I know of,
                    except in leaving you.”
                “That’s unkind,” said Laura, suddenly, and thrown off her guard; “that’s the last
                    of your thoughts. I only wish you were as little deceived as you deceive
                    me.”
                “Deceived—deceit!” said Leslie’; “what are we talking about? I leave two friends
                    here, who are, I know, as true as the mirror of a mountain lake; two charming
                    ladies, whose friendship is the pride of my life—Miss Chanson and her ward, to
                    whose joint society I offer up all my homage.”
                Laura looked at him steadily for a few seconds, and then changing her manner
                    suddenly, uttered her scornful laugh, which made the blood tingle in his face as
                    though he had been detected in the most
                    egregious simplicity.
                “I doubt nothing, I doubt nobody,” said he. “I am the simplest fellow in the
                    world. When I see blue sky, I believe it blue.”
                “And the little angels and all?” said Laura.
                “Certainly.”
                “I’ll say nothing against it, then;” and slightly shrugging her shoulders, she
                    escaped.
                When he took leave of the Squire it was the same thing.
                “You are going away in a hurry,” said Mr. Chanson. “Have you had a tiff with
                    anybody?”
                “By no means. I have business which obliges me ......”
                “Ay, ay. They’ll miss you, especially the little girl there; but mind you, I know
                    nothing about her, beyond that I must take care of her. She has not a penny, and
                    I am afraid is whimmy.”
                Leslie was vexed at the Squire’s caution. Laura’s would have been nothing, had
                    not her brother’s confirmed it. There must be some? thing, as both had made a similar observation. Yet,
                    when he met Elinor before breakfast next morning, walking in the garden, and she
                    told him that she had hoped to see him there, and it was therefore she had come,
                    he forgot to ask himself if such child?like simplicity could be feigned, and
                    renewed all those vows of friendship and support which Elinor needed; and
                    vowswarmer than which he felt instinctively would not be understood. His
                    intention was to leave her for a time, since his hostess took his desertion so
                    much amiss, but if his own heart preserved the impression Elinor had made upon
                    it, he had resolved to see her again at any cost, and then to let the course of
                    events determine their future relations.
                Accordingly he betook himself home, where he had occupation and amusement
                    awaiting him, and where the novelty of being master gave him interests which
                    made it the place most frequently in his thoughts when absent. It was an ancient
                    house, which seemed, from the remains of building about it, to have been once a
                    portion of a much larger resi? dence. It stood
                    in a valley, upon an isolated hill, on the slopes of which the various ruined
                    walls, covered for the most part with the vegetation of years, and crowned with
                    mountain ash and birch, offered many a romantic seat, and many a sheltered bit
                    of terrace for whole natural beds of wild flowers. The house was out of order,
                    but not ruinous, and offered scope to the eye and fancy of the proprietor as to
                    its restoration to a beautiful and convenient dwelling. From it one looked down
                    the valley to the church, with its spire rising above the cottages and orchards
                    of a village, and on the stream which wound its way through wood and meadow,
                    wandering on towards hills, for ever varying in light and shade, and as it had a
                    western aspect, offering every evening the gorgeous spectacle of sunset.
                All this valley belonged to Leslie, and so did the neighbouring lands, for about
                    3,000 acres in all, of poor but lovely country. He had a neighbour, richer than
                    himself, and with a grander place, to the east of his valley; and a few other
                    scattered houses, together with a market town
                    about six miles on, over the common and heathy grounds, made up his
                    neighbourhood. There was plenty of game on Leslie’s estate, and one plan for
                    this autumn was to amuse himself with its pursuit; but though he was as active
                    as might reasonably be guessed from his admirable frame, he had never got up to
                    any enthusiasm for hunting or shooting. He tried the latter the first morning
                    after his return, but though the partridges were plentiful, and his success
                    considerable, he thought it a more stupid occupation than ever, to?day.
                While he was walking over the dry stubbles, what was Elinor doing? Was she
                    reading one of those little dreamy books which he had commented upon many a
                    time, till an unwilling smile broke over her lips, and she turned away her face
                    that he might not see it? or was she suffering from Laura’s bad temper, with
                    that pretty mournful expression in her eyes and on her mouth, which made her
                    look even younger than her own fresh youth? Was she sitting, cool and pale, on
                    the fallen oak in the wood, while he was
                    toiling, hot and red, in company with his gamekeeper, watching a dog beguiling a
                    bird?
                He went home very early, and then walked about his own place, cutting away boughs
                    which shut out the lovely view, and projecting how to convert into an entrance a
                    hexagon room supported by a central pillar, which was said once to have been a
                    chapel.
                But he was constantly leaning the hatchet idle against a tree, or drawing scrolls
                    and scrawls on the margin of the paper where he was making his plans—his
                    thoughts being elsewhere, at the side of Elinor, thinking over something said or
                    done by her, and what he had said, or had better have said or done, in
                    return.
                Two or three days made his home intolerable—intolerable, at least, to a man so
                    free to go whithersoever his wishes directed him—and getting up one morning at
                    dawn, from a bed where he could not sleep, he put up a portmanteau before his
                    servant was awake, and by the time the labourers came to their work, was driving
                    to the little neighbouring town where the coach changed horses at seven o’clock. Nobody asked, and nobody knew where
                    he was going: he went quite alone, and by one change of vehicle and another
                    reached the neighbourhood of Chanson Wood by nightfall.
                He would not on any account have been recognised; he was ashamed of returning so
                    soon, and took the most genuine precautions to remain in obscurity. He engaged a
                    room a couple of miles from the park, at a little public house where, having
                    never entered it during his visit to the Squire, he was unknown; and pretending
                    something about an engagement to survey the country, and displaying some paper
                    and pencils, felt himself safe from inquiry.
                The intense desire to see Elinor again, however, would not let him rest in the
                    house, and as soon as the night was quite dark, he took his way along the lane,
                    and through the wicket beside the carriage entrance, and then by cautious
                    approaches to that side of the house where was the room the family occupied in
                    the evening. All was carelessly secure, as in a great country house in the midst
                    of its gardens, and inhabited by its multitude;
                    and he had but to push open the low iron gate in the fence between the garden
                    and the park, to find himself upon the walk which led up beneath the windows.
                    There was a flower border, and then a green sward, between the house and the
                    gravel walk, so that Leslie, by walking on the turf, and then on the silent
                    mould of the border, got noiselessly up to an open sash, and could look in and
                    command the whole room.
                All was silent inside. There were three persons, and one was Elinor. She was
                    sitting beside a lamp, with her face to the window, but it was leant over a
                    piece of work which she held in her hands. There was nothing but white of
                    different shades about her; her muslin gown was white, a white satin bow
                    fastened it at her throat, a white lace border, or collar, lay flat on her low
                    shoulders, the work in her hands was white cambric, which she was embroidering;
                    her pale face and fair hands were touched by the lamplight, and her motionless
                    figure seemed patient of a dull employment and ungenial companions.
                
                Laura reclined in a chair, partly turned from the window, reading; and the Squire
                    was fast asleep on a sofa, breaking the silence by regular snoring, loud enough
                    to increase Leslie’s chance of escaping detection. He saw her then, he could
                    speak to her with silently moving lips, he could appeal to her with passionate
                    eyes and entreating hands, he could bend his knee towards the ground, adoring
                    her beauty, or rather her loveableness. Perhaps he a little over?wrought these
                    gesticulations, for while most wrapped in them, a little dog, which was lying
                    with its back well into Laura’s silk gown, jumped up, and gave a sharp volley of
                    barks.
                Elinor looked suddenly up, but Leslie was gone into the shadow. The Squire did
                    not cease his sonorous aspirations, and Laura was too much used to her Spitz’s
                    hysterical alarms to move so much as her head. But Leslie felt his security
                    gone; and that probably the little Spitz’s eyes were even then on the window,
                    beaming with the purpose of another frantic yap upon the smallest sign from
                    outside. He withdrew very cautiously, but his soul was bitter against the
                    Spitz.
                
                “Let me catch you outside these walls, Master Puff, and see if you disturb me
                    again,” murmured he, as he retreated.
                The necessity of his soul was to see Elinor again; he wished to be the unseen
                    spectator of what she was and did, to make sure that a creature so innocent
                    really existed, and to enjoy the spectacle if it was true. To enjoy it and
                    destroy it; for he looked no further than to present gratification of the
                    passion which filled his breast—all his remoter thoughts were of ambition and
                    success in the tempestuous world, which seemed another sphere from that he
                    occupied at present.
                He put on, next day, the dress of a workman, and as deeply slouched a hat as he
                    could suppose consistent with the character. He provided himself with an axe,
                    and hoped to pass unrecognised, if he could avoid direct communication with his
                    former host and fellow guests; and taking his way into the woods about the
                    house, went first to the brook, where he had shown Elinor the waterfall, and
                    where he knew she had occasionally resorted after that time.
                
                His expectations were more than fulfilled, for he had no pains of waiting to go
                    through, no fears, no doubtful hopes; a figure was standing on the very spot
                    whither he had led Elinor, and though the face was turned away, the elegant
                    shape was that which he longed to see. The falling water prevented his step from
                    being heard, and he was able to take up a place among the trees, where he could
                    observe her, yet run scarce any danger of detection. Should she perceive him, he
                    would deal a few strokes at the trees, and trust to be taken for the forester,
                    and pass unnoticed.
                The unconscious Elinor made her preparations for passing the burning hours in
                    shade and a refreshing atmosphere. She laid aside her bonnet, put by her gloves,
                    unfastened the cotton gown from her throat, and it charmed him to see she did
                    not open a book, but unfolded a piece of household work, and industriously
                    shaped, and hemmed, and sewed at the white jacket she was making. Sometimes she
                    paused, and looked long at the lovely fall of waters, and once going down to the
                        edge of the brook, took water in her joined
                    hands, and drank from that pretty cup. Then returning, she resumed her work, and
                    gave no sign of thoughts within, except a few times singing some notes, like a
                    bird alone in the sun, trying a passage taught by the impulse of its melodious
                    throat.
                It was a fair picture of still life, and he looked at it with the passion of a
                    lover, and the eye of an artist; but at last he began to grow discontented that
                    there was no sign of wanting or thinking of him, no looks cast upwards, no
                    sighs, no restless movement, which he might have interpreted into regret that he
                    was not there. Should he suddenly appear, would he be welcome even? Yes,
                    welcome, perhaps, as a novelty, not as the thing desired—welcome to come and go,
                    but if she knew he had come all that way merely to look at her, she would laugh.
                    He was a very young man, and little knew the patience of a modest maiden, nor
                    the absence of all spoken words, and speaking signs, when she is with herself
                    alone, and is occupied with her natural duties and works.
                
                He watched her all that morning, and saw her at last fold her work, rise and
                    gather some beech leaves while she stood under the tree, to wind one into the
                    other, till they made a wreath, then hanging it on her wrist, she took up her
                    wicker basket, and shortly withdrew towards the house.
                “Dear household Lar,” said he, coming and standing exactly in front of the seat
                    she had occupied, “one day you will sit beside some humble hearth, content to do
                    the lowly offices of home, to live the joyless life of little wants and coarse
                    means; your fragile loveliness will be stained by weather and hard work, your
                    pure voice will have lost its clearness, but neither you nor yours will think it
                    worsened since these days. I should not love you then—I shall be in my grave, or
                    on the summit of ambition then—but there is an interval between that time and
                    this, in which, oh! Elinor! your quiet heart must beat—beat as mine does now—in
                    which you must know the agony of my adoration—in which we must make life all
                    diamond?light, if it be but for the space of a moon’s change! Ex? quisite calm face, when will you lighten thus for
                    me?”
                Next day, he came again, and saw her again. It was, as the village bells told
                    him, a Saint’s day, and Elinor, whom no one helped to perform her usual
                    devotions in an appointed place, came into the entangled woods to find a temple.
                    He saw her kneel in front of the great tree, and with humble eyes cast upon the
                    ground, sign the cross upon her bosom, and open her little book of prayer.
                Even in these devotions there was something which suited his feeling about Elinor
                    better than if the prayer had been more untaught, more her own creation. She
                    passively did what she had been taught to do—she murmured over a form of words,
                    continually coming to the same repetition, and making the same sign of devotion.
                    She turned her pages to the places where marks in the book showed she ought to
                    go, and though the service lasted long, showed no wish either to shorten or
                    prolong it, but did what was set down for her, and then 
                        rose
                        roase
                     and had done.
                Again she took her seat upon the fallen tree,
                    again unfolded her work, and again, with the shadows of boughs and leaves moving
                    over her as the breath of air gently swayed them, sat plying her household
                    needle. What thoughts broke in upon the even train which was necessary to guide
                    that needle, he would fain have guessed. Surely some thoughts must accompany the
                    motion of those active fingers—perhaps there were many given to convent days;
                    perhaps some to him—he wished it, but hardly hoped it; but at last, without the
                    sewing being interrupted, he heard well known notes begin to murmur from her
                    throat, and go on to a continued but still low song, which made him believe
                    those tranquil thoughts had indeed been recalling him, and had come to the point
                    which made that song and him one common subject, for it was the air of a duett
                    in which he had attempted to join her, an air sung at village weddings in
                    Brittany, and he had never seen her laugh so cordially as at his failures in
                    trying to keep a second. Now he heard the village notes and verses again, and
                    believed his own image was before her.
                
                
                    “Nous sommes venus vous voir,
                    Du fond de not’e village,
                    Pour vous complimenter
                    Sur vot’e mariage
                    A monsieur votre epoux,
                    Aussi bien comme à vous,” &c.
                
                She broke off before the verse was finished, and he saw her look from her work,
                    and though he could not hear it, was certain she laughed—briefly, as one does
                    alone. Then there was some measuring or adapting in the work, which took up her
                    attention, and obliged her to rise and use the fallen tree for a table, and when
                    all was in order, she again sat down to work, and seemed to have forgotten all
                    about “vot’e mariage.” Probably they were the words in the song which were the
                    very last she thought about.
                The intense pleasure of watching, and appropriating her solitary ways and
                    movements, had gone on long past mid?day, when Leslie heard a step coming along
                    the rough track which led from the wood walk to this unfrequented place. It was
                    only a servant, who, approaching Elinor, delivered some message and went away again; and she, in consequence it
                    seemed, collected the materials of her employment, and left her seat probably to
                    obey a summons to the house. Leslie was vexed, first at losing his amusement,
                    and next at the way in which it was lost.
                “I thought he had chosen a spot all unknown,” said he, to himself—“one which a
                    lover only could discover—but it seems the very servants know where she is to be
                    found, much more every idle puppy and loiterer belonging to the society”—puppy
                    himself, though of a stout, handsome breed.
                However, there was no probability of her return, he thought, and after half an
                    hour’s waiting for the chance of it, he had moved away, and was descending
                    towards the brook, when he perceived a motion in the boughs overhanging the
                    path, and stopping to watch, perceived it was Elinor coming again, and in haste,
                    to the accustomed spot. Leslie was in front of her, and accident gave him a
                    better place to see her than he had ventured to choose for himself; his fear was
                    that she should also perceive him, but she evidently was in a mood so preoccupied as not readily to have
                    her attention caught by outer objects. All her humble tranquillity was gone. As
                    soon as she reached her fallen tree, she sank down upon it, and leaning both
                    hands upon one of the projecting branches, hid her face, and wept bitterly. She
                    lifted her head more than once, to wipe her streaming eyes, and then hid them
                    again, as though the lovely scene were blotted and rendered null by the grief
                    within.
                Presently she rose, and went hastily down to the brook, and there kneeling and
                    stooping over it, dashed the water repeatedly over her face, and let her hair
                    come dripping from the stream. She then sat down on a rock close to the margin,
                    and not five yards from Leslie, but, as it chanced, with her back to him, and
                    bringing from a little basket a case containing paper and a pen, she put her
                    lithe figure into such a position as to find a desk on part of the rock where
                    she sat, and began hastily to write.
                Leslie’s heart beat faster than ever. Had she not asked him for his direction,
                    that she might apply to him if ever she was in
                    trouble? Was she writing to him? To whom else was it probable, that in that
                    sudden grief, whatever it might be, she should be writing? and he so near—he
                    could almost see the lines as she traced them. Did she summon him to her? What
                    would she say if he were suddenly at her side?—but then he should lose all the
                    gratitude due to obeying her call—he should be the inferior who had come to
                    seek, instead of the superior who had been besought to come. No, he would not
                    hazard that!—besides, he was not sure that she was writing to him; it might be
                    some one else to whom she was appealing. She had very suddenly made him her
                    confidant—it was not impossible that there might be others equally favoured.
                    What was it the Squire had said she was—whimmy?—he had called her
                    whimmy. Yet, alas! that she should cry so, and no one be near to comfort her.
                    Would not she cling to him like a friend if she saw him? would not she be
                    gladder than she knew? Yet, possibly, no!—he would not hazard it—but that letter
                    he would get by some means, and it should not
                    be long before it was his; then he should know what to do.
                Meantime, Elinor finished the hastily?written letter, folded it, and replacing
                    the little matters in her basket, pushed the basket among the ferns and stones,
                    and hastily took her way by a difficult path down the dingle. Leslie concluded
                    that she was going to the post?office to put in her letter; and he purposed to
                    follow soon after, and ask for it in his own name, in case it should be
                    addressed to him. But then the letter would be directed to his own place, of
                    which he had given Elinor the direction, and at the post?office they would not
                    dare give it except where it was addressed. Yet he knew the old woman who acted
                    as post?mistress, and she had been constantly in the habit of seeing him during
                    his visit at Mr. Chanson’s, and perhaps, if he resumed the clothes and character
                    of Mr. Leslie, she might be prevailed upon to disregard the direction in favour
                    of the bodily presence of the man directed to. He therefore rushed back to his
                    lodgings to change his peasant’s dress, and then, regardless of being
                        discovered, regardless of everything except
                    the possession of the letter, he turned back boldly to the post?office. For the
                    convenience of the great house, it was located at the park gates, in the lodge,
                    and was kept by the same old woman who had taken notice of Elinor’s watch for
                    Mr. Leslie. She was perfectly familiar with his appearance, but when he went
                    into the house and inquired if there was anything for him, she started as if she
                    had no expectation nor wish to see him, and seemed to take the circumstance
                    occurring as a personal injury.
                “A letter for P. Leslie, Esq.?” said she; “there’s more fuss than enough about P.
                    Leslie, Esq. I can’t sit to my tea for people all coming for that blessed
                    letter.”
                “Then there is one,” cried Leslie, eagerly, “give it.”
                “I did not say there was,” said the old woman; “and if there should be, it’s gone
                    away in the west bag as directed.”
                “Gone!” cried he, stamping impatiently; “what luck I have! but when—there’s been
                    no mail since—when did it go, I say?”
                “The mail was due at eleven and half,” said the
                    post?mistress, “but it might be ten minutes later.”
                “You are not telling me the truth,” said Leslie; “the letter was not here
                    then.”
                “If you know better than I, sir, then I say no more.”
                “Nay!” said Leslie; “but you know you were telling stories—and what’s the use?
                    The letter is here, and you may as well get half a guinea by giving it me as
                    not.”
                “I can’t do no such thing; it’s made up in the bag to go where it ought to go,
                    and I’m forbidden by my office to let anybody meddle with it, except the right
                    person at the right place.”
                “But,” said Leslie, “you have already let somebody meddle; the person—the
                    people—who you say have been disturbing you at your tea.”
                The old woman coloured up to the eyes, though she would not give way. “I said
                    somebody disturbed me; and so she did. Was not the hole cut away in the window
                    for letters to be dropped in? Where’s the use of bringing them into the house,
                    and not being content with the natural gap.”
                
                “That’s not what you meant by disturbing you,” said Leslie; “that person may have
                    brought the letter into the house, but after it was in the box, I believe you
                    have been taking it out for somebody else, and you can’t produce it for the
                    right owner.”
                “Can’t I?” said the old woman.
                “No! I shall inform against you,” said. Leslie, “for allowing your office to be
                    tampered with, unless you immediately put it into my possession.”
                “That will just be doing the thing you are going to complain of,” said the old
                    woman.
                Leslie was provoked to smile.“Come, come,” said he, “I will have the
                    letter, and you may as well take my money at once, for the trouble of opening
                    your bags, although I know they are not shut. Here, old lady, don’t tell any
                    more lies, but do as you are bid.”
                The ancient post?mistress laughed, and went to the box into which the letters
                    were dropped. Leslie found out her fibs as fast as she composed them, and she
                    acknowledged him a master spirit. A little rummaging and a little grumbling
                    produced the letter in question, and Leslie
                    seizing it, first of all before devouring the contents, carefully examined the
                    folds and fastening, for he had conceived certain suspicions from the old lady’s
                    words.
                “Who opened this letter?” said he, abruptly, after looking at it attentively.
                “Nobody but yourself,” said she, trying to lay her thumb on the fastening; “you
                    have worried it in turning it about so.”
                “No, no!” said Leslie, guarding it from her, for though he had only asked the
                    question as a random shot, he now was certain that there was some mystery.
                “That I have not, neither shall you; but you shall tell me what I
                    ask, for I have you in my power, and I will know.”
                The old sharpshooter was chased from her defences, but ran and took up another
                    position. “Well—well,” said she, “you are a young gentleman, and a mighty
                    good?looking, and if I were you, I should not take it amiss that the ladies
                    thought worth while escorting my letters, and jealousing what was writ in them.
                    It is not old gentlemen and old ladies as do such things.”
                
                “In short, Miss Chanson has had this letter in her hands before me.”
                “Oh! dear me!—Miss Chanson!—no, dear no!—I never said no such thing.”
                “No, you did not say it!” said Leslie. “I perfectly comprehend that it could not
                    possibly be that lady; and now don’t be afraid, for I know all I want. Good
                    evening.”
                “That’s a wilful man,” said the post?mistress to herself, “and those be two silly
                    girls to have anything to do with him.”
                Leslie meantime walked hastily away, and took a path over the fields to be out of
                    observation, opening and reading the much canvassed letter as he went along. He
                    could not but smile at the simplicity of the writer’s alarms, and of her
                    confidence in him.
                “Sir, (”that’s Monsieur,“ said he)—
                
                    ”SIR—You are my only friend; I do not know what to do unless you can help
                        me—and you told me to ask you for help if I was in trouble. Have you money
                        you can lend me? I will pay you back, a little every quarter, and once you
                        said it was not wrong to borrow from you.
                        Miss Chanson called me, and gave me many bills, which I did not know
                        of—perhaps they will put me in prison. What will become of me?
                    “ELINOR LADYLIFT.”
                
                “Poor, precious, enchanting Elinor!” cried he; “how unkind, how sententious, they
                    are to you. I can see the matter from here; ordinary bills are thrust into your
                    hands, without explanation, without advice, and your conventual imagination sees
                    nothing in them but an ogre of a creditor, and dungeons and chains. Oh! how can
                    I be soonest with you? I dare not come at once, for even your innocence would
                    disbelieve that I was as far off as I ought to have been when I got your
                    summons. Yet—summons! no, it is not that; nothing was further, I do believe,
                    from your thoughts, than to call me to you—yet, poor dove, you have done so, and
                    when such fair birds are no better looked after by their natural guardians, what
                    is indeed to become of them? Now I must write so as not to frighten her.”
                
                Accordingly he wrote in the soberest manner, making much, indeed, of her
                    embarrassments, but promising to alleviate them; and then informed her “that
                    particular circumstances having called him into her neighbourhood, he had
                    received her letter in a most fortunately brief space of time, and he should be
                    able, that very evening, to meet her near the waterfall in the wood, and to
                    bring her the means of extricating herself from her difficulties.”
                “She will wonder why I should not walk straight up to the house, and ask to see
                    Miss Ladylift,” said he, as he sealed his letter; “but I hope the spirit of
                    intrigue and coquetry may awaken in her sufficiently to do as I suggest, and ask
                    no questions.”
                The next difficulty was to convey this letter to her, and it perplexed him till
                    he saw the Squire and Laura ride past his lodging, and thus knew they were out
                    of the way; and then he resolved to go himself to the house, in the peasant’s
                    dress he had worn in the morning, and there to put his answer into the hands of
                    a labouring clod in the gardens. This he did, begging him to take “Mr. Davis tailior’s acquoint for the French lady, up
                    speedy to the house.”
                The obliging clod complied, and Leslie returned to his lodging, and early in the
                    evening to the woods, expecting the guileless creature who put such confidence
                    in him. Nor was he disappointed. About nine o’clock, of a warm, moonlit,
                    September evening, Leslie standing anxiously in the wood?path, saw Elinor coming
                    along it to meet him.
                “How good you are,” she said, as they met; “but indeed I did not mean to trouble
                    you thus. I thought you would have written to me; indeed, I did not think of
                    your coming.”
                “But you are not displeased?” said Leslie, taking her hand, which she withdrew
                    when she had performed the proper greeting. “For my part, I am so happy to be of
                    any service to you, I am so happy to see you again, that I cannot but bless the
                    difficulties which have brought this meeting about.”
                “Oh! Mr. Leslie, I am sure you would not say so, if you knew how miserable I have
                        been.”
                “But you are miserable no longer, are you?” said Leslie; “you feel that I am able
                    and willing to remove every cause of pain—I am able to make you happy.”
                “I hope so,” said Elinor; “but it will be a long time before I can pay you.”
                “What! pay me? Oh! I was not thinking of that; I was thinking,” said Leslie,
                    drawing her gently to the fallen tree, where he had watched her sitting those
                    autumn days, and placing himself beside her—“I was thinking whether you did not
                    know that I look upon this moment, when you trust me, when I you apply to me,
                    when you know me to be a better friend than any of those whom chance has thrown
                    you amongst, as the most delightful that ever in all my youth and enjoyment
                    passed over me”—he possessed himself of her hand—“and I don’t deceive myself, do
                    I? You know me to be your truest well?wisher, your most anxious counsellor, the
                    person who would desire your happiness beyond all other things, and do whatever
                    may best promote it.”
                Elinor’s hand stayed in his, but it was with the
                    calmest voice she answered, “Yes, or you would not be here to help me.”
                “No, no! and you felt it was none of those guardians of yours, who was willing to
                    do so?—you did not apply to them?”
                “Oh! I should never have done such a thing,” said Elinor, the slightest smile
                    passing over her face, as at the suggestion of something wholly out of the
                    question.
                “I have a kind of right, you have given me a right to counsel you, guard you; you
                    are inclined to do as I advise you?”
                “Yes,” said Elinor, with a mournful inflection in her voice. “I know nothing at
                    all of this world I am in, and I have found you wise, knowing everything. You
                    can teach me what you please, but I know you will teach me what is right.”
                “Ah, yes! right—the right way to be happy—and we are creatures made to be happy,
                    not to suffer pain from each, other, not to be unkindly treated, but to seek out
                    those who love us, and to put all our trust that what they do will be the best
                    they know how to do, for our happiness.”
                
                Elinor was silent. She was listening, and trying to comprehend.
                “Elinor, did any ever devote themselves to you, and think, of nothing except how
                    to please, how to take care of you; what you liked, where you would go?”
                “Oh! no, certainly,” said Elinor.
                “Your kind Mother in the Convent, your teachers the nuns, your companions—did you
                    ever feel that when you came they rejoiced, when you went they mourned; that you
                    were the thing they first thought of at waking; the object for which they
                    planned their plans, lamented their failures?”
                “No!” said Elinor, “they were not so unreasonable.”
                “But he who loves you is so unreasonable, so reasonable at the same time, for
                    that which is dearer than oneself must be more present, more cherished than
                    oneself—the happiness of that creature must be before every other wish and plan.
                    Would it be no pleasure, dearest Elinor, to be thus beloved?”
                His right hand suddenly transferred her’s to his left, and went round her waist,
                    nor did it fail to press that slender, warm
                    column, which it had encircled. Elinor did not withdraw, but she raised her
                    clear eyes to his, and met his fierce glance with such inquiring, innocent
                    calmness, that his arm released its hold, and he did but raise her hand to his
                    mouth, and pressed one kiss upon it.
                “May I not love you, Elinor?”
                “Indeed I think you do,” said Elinor.
                “I doubt whether you do as much for me,” said Leslie, to himself, and he felt
                    that he should but set her on her guard by any further revelation of his
                    feelings; but he was not wholly displeased with the step he had advanced. All
                    recollection of the cause of their meeting had departed from him; but while he
                    was thinking how best to go on with the interview, Elinor took advantage of the
                    pause, and returned to the difficulties he was to settle for her, which to him
                    appeared prosaic and superfluous, but to her was the thing that made their
                    meeting interesting. Leslie took from her hand the little neat bundle of papers
                    which she produced; he comprehended that Laura had not chosen to explain or
                        soften anything, and promised that he
                    would himself arrange all.
                He would then have passed to other subjects, but Elinor would stay no longer
                    after she had fulfilled her errand, and then he fixed the next afternoon for
                    another meeting at the same place, to give account of what he should have
                    done.
                “Say nothing of our meeting,” said he; “it is best not. I can scarcely explain
                    why; but promise that you will follow my advice.”
                Elinor did so. She had no conscience but Leslie—her own had never come much into
                    activity, and that which she brought from the Convent had been all
                    overthrown.
                Elinor returned to the house, and to the saloon where Mr. Chanson and his sister
                    Laura were sitting, and entering it with her light, noiseless movement, was
                    taking up her work, and about to seat herself in her usual place, when Laura
                    stopped her, by asking, in a constrained voice,
                “Where have you been, Elinor?”
                “In the wood,” said Elinor, the colour rising, she knew not why.
                
                “But, my dear,” said the Squire, “that’s not the proper place for a young girl
                    like you, at night, all alone; you should not go there.”
                “And were you alone?” said Laura, briefly.
                Elinor had nothing to say; the question was so home, that it admitted but of yes
                    or no; one of which she might not, and the other she would not say.
                “Speak out,” said Mr. Chanson; “don’t be afraid of us. Tell the truth
                    always.”
                “Oh, yes! that I will, always,” said Elinor.
                “You were alone, then, I dare say, were you not?” said Mr. Chanson. “Still I
                    don’t like you to wander about alone, and you will do it no more, will you?”
                “Very well,” said Elinor.
                But Laura, speaking almost at the same time, said, “You were not
                    alone, then; you can’t deny it, Elinor. You went there to meet somebody.”
                Elinor answered nothing, but bent her head over her sewing, and had the tears in
                    her eyes.
                Mr. Chanson was almost as much embar? rassed as
                    she. He rose up, crushed the newspaper, and turning his back, leaned on the
                    mantel?shelf, taking part in his own 
                        heat
                        heeat
                     with the embarrassed young girl, against his sister, though the latter
                    was clearly in the right.
                “Was it Mr. Leslie?” said Laura.
                “Oh! Mr. Leslie!” said her brother, half turning round; “quite impossible.”
                Laura could not be quite sure it was he, for though, indeed, the broken seal of
                    Elinor’s letter had revealed the intercourse between them, she could not
                    comprehend by what means he could so rapidly have obeyed the summons; yet she
                    could not but feel it must be Leslie, and her anxiety and dread about it were
                    extreme.
                “Speak, Elinor! say whether or not it was he.”
                “No, no,” said Mr. Chanson; “there is no sense in asking such a thing. I had a
                    letter from him two days ago, about the distemper?powders; he was not going from
                    home—besides ......”
                What there was besides he did not explain, but
                    Elinor took courage under this unexpected defence, and though she would not say
                    a word of denial herself, felt half justified by the denial he extemporised, and
                    sewed away, supported in the silence she resolved to observe. Laura, on the
                    other hand, was unduly discouraged, and her pressing investigation, which must
                    have ended in a victory, resulted in an impatient “Well!” and the three sat in
                    the most uncomfortable silence, till Elinor, who felt thoroughly humble, and
                    anxious to do something right, though she could not do the one right thing they
                    wanted, so anxiously watched her chances of finding the Squire’s spectacles,
                    picking up his book, and placing it softly on the table when it fell out of his
                    slumbering hand, of remembering where Laura had laid down the key of the
                    tea?chest, of letting Puff out of the room, and letting him in again, that Mr.
                    Chanson’s heart was quite softened, and gently touching her head, he said, in a
                    low voice,
                “You are a good little girl—only mind what Laura tells you;” and Elinor was so
                    pleased with the kind words, that she felt as
                    if she should never obey anybody else, nor perhaps would she, had there been as
                    much womanly kindness and sincerity in the sister as of gentleness in the
                    brother.
                But Laura had feelings quite apart from the interests of Elinor, which prevented
                    any approach to kindliness, and those were her own concern in Leslie, and in all
                    that he did. He had secured a place in her affections such as he never aspired
                    to, and which, at this time, he would much rather have been without; and it made
                    Laura wild with jealousy to think that one day Elinor might occupy the place
                    which she herself, with all her beauty, wit, and wealth, longed for in vain.
                    Should those two be coming and going together, civil to her, but lovers of each
                    other? should it be by short and transient fits that she should see Leslie, but
                    Elinor be of his house, always his and with him? should the stranger’s sustained
                    attention be for her, but the word, the sign, the look, the understood gesture,
                    be for Elinor? Laura could not endure it, and the thing was so inadmissible,
                    that whatever she could do to prevent it
                    seemed the thing to be done—not the right thing, perhaps, but still to be done.
                    She hated Elinor, and would willingly have seen in her all those defects which
                    would disenchant Leslie; she wished they were in her, and acknowledged to be
                    there by everybody; and when Elinor had gently crept out of the room, at an
                    early bedtime, she broke the long silence that had descended upon them all, and
                    began to talk in an ingenuous, candid tone, to her brother.
                “There are great excuses to be made for that poor child,” said she. “The liberty
                    she enjoys is so sudden, and the training she has had is so bad, that she is
                    liable to errors from which other people are free.”
                “Yes, indeed,” said the Squire; “and it is very kind and just of you, Laura, to
                    make excuses for her. She wants a friend.”
                “Yes! I only wish she were more willing to listen to me.”
                “She is a little wilful, is she?”
                “I think you must have perceived that. 
                        
                        “
                    Don’t you see how she keeps apart all the morning? I am always
                        willing—anxious— that she should come to
                    my room and be with me; but was not it strange, how she persecuted Mr. Leslie to
                    attend to her?—not unnatural certainly—a man was a marvel to a girl from a
                    convent; but I explained to her the common forms of society, and she should have
                    altered her conduct in consequence; however, it was just the same, and I’m
                    afraid, I really am, that this walk of hers has something to do with an
                    appointment—if not with him, with somebody else.”
                “I hope not,” said the Squire; “though, indeed, I saw that Leslie was rather in
                    love with her.”
                “Oh! no, no!” cried Laura, anxiously; “a man is always flattered if a girl shows
                    any liking for him, but that’s all. How could he take a fancy for a child like
                    that—uneducated yet artificial, not pretty nor amusing?”
                “She does not say much,” answered the Squire.
                “Besides, Lawrence,” went on Miss Chanson, “though he might have been pleased
                    with her, if he had been wholly fancy?free, yet—being as he is ......”
                
                “What? is Leslie in love with anybody—hey; Laura! is that it? is it
                    possible, my dear?”
                “I have never said a word to any human being before,” said Laura, turning away
                    her head.
                “Is it possible? The thing I should like beyond all others; why did not I
                    know?”
                “Nay, you think more of it than you ought. Indeed, Lawrence, I don’t quite
                    understand him; something. is on his mind, which—which ...... in short, there
                    has no word passed between us. Has he any fortune? Sometimes I have thought,
                    that knowing me to have a large one, his own want of any may have held him
                    back.”
                “Oh! he is not poor, but very proud. Are you civil enough to him, Laura?”
                “Nay, certainly,” said Laura; “it is for him to seek, not me.”
                “Yes, yes; but at the same time, I can tell you that Fanny Wimbledon would have
                    been Mrs. Chanson, if she had not thought it necessary to chaff and flout me,
                    when I was looking for a kind word.”
                
                “Did she like you, vain man?”.
                “So I heard afterwards; but I was in Caithness, and it was too far to come back.
                    So don’t throw him away—that is, if you think you could like him.”
                “Lawrence, you are mother and brother to me;” and she laid her head on his
                    shoulder. “I do like him.”
                “Is it so, dear Laura?” said he, fondly caressing her; “then may Providence bring
                    you and him together. If I can help you ....”
                “Only say nothing to him. Oh! for heaven’s sake! do nothing rash. Proud he is,
                    and a word might alarm him. But it is a comfort, brother, to have made a
                    confidant of you, and to you I am not ashamed of saying what no mortal ear
                    besides must know.”
                Thus talked brother and sister; it was a pity that Laura knew all the time that
                    she was lying. Those words of her own, “I have never revealed it to another
                    human being,” took herself in, for although they conveyed a great deal, they
                    affirmed nothing.
                Elinor was perplexed beyond measure what to do about her next day’s engagement.
                        The utmost she wished was to tell Leslie
                    that she could meet him no more; but she knew not by what means to effect this.
                    Laura would not let her go beyond her sight. The room, which she had declared
                    herself so anxious 
                        should
                        shoold
                     be common between them, was for the first time opened to Elinor; she
                    took a pretext of some fine lace, which was in bad condition, and which Elinor,
                    profiting by a convent accomplishment, had once offered to put in order. She had
                    then told how a certain veil had been wanted for an image of the Virgin, in a
                    procession, and how it had been trusted to her to put to rights, when some
                    others had refused through fear of its tenderness. She had spread it on a thick
                    bed of cambric, and then, by patient immersions in certain prepared waters, had
                    removed every trace of dirt and stain, without the least violence to the frail
                    fabric, so that when the image appeared in it next day, inquiries had been made
                    who could so successfully have renovated the delicate fabric.
                This had been a tale of the early days of her arrival, and she was surprised
                    to?day at Laura’s recollection of it, and not
                    best pleased that the occupation should have been given her just this morning.
                    Then followed a drive in which Elinor was included, the object of which was to
                    meet a young relation of the Chansons, Sir Peter Bicester, who had just got
                    orders to join his regiment in Ceylon, and was coming for a farewell visit to
                    Chanson Wood. He was a lively, thoughtless lad of eighteen, a great admirer of
                    his cousin Laura, who was six years older than he, and in his intense
                    attentions, during their after?dinner saunter in the garden, Laura lost sight of
                    Elinor, and Elinor, with the speed of an Italian greyhound, ran to the waterfall
                    to say one word, and but one, to Leslie. In case of not finding him, she had
                    provided herself with a little note, merely, “I cannot come this evening. Mr.
                    Chanson forbids me to go out.—ELINOR LADYLIFT.” This she intended to lay on the
                    fallen tree, and trusted it would be found by Leslie, should she not meet with
                    him.
                Leslie had been there early—as early as he thought it possible the usual morning
                    ride or drive of the others would set Elinor at liberty —and the longer she delayed, the stronger the fear
                    became that he should not see her, so much the intenser grew his desire to do
                    so, and the regard in which he held the object of it.
                “Innocent and artless Elinor!” thought he; “with a whole heart to give, a whole
                    nature to be made happy, is there anything better in life than to make and share
                    your happiness?” and then more dreamily his thoughts dwelt upon images of
                    virtuous felicity, upon the meanness of betraying such guileless confidence, and
                    upon the difficulty which he had not hitherto counted upon of converting her
                    quiet feeling into one of passion.
                It was already quite dusk, when his ear at last caught a footfall. It was of one
                    running quickly; and eagerly springing to meet her, he at last beheld Elinor,
                    and felt an almost unknown pleasure in the reality that she was there.
                “I am here for one minute only,” said she. “Mr. Chanson forbade me to walk out in
                    the evening. I only wanted to tell you not to wait.”
                
                “And why?” said Leslie, holding fast her hand.
                “He says it is wrong. You did not tell me so, or I would not have done it.”
                “I know no wrong; but you must not go yet. What! will you not stay to know what I
                    have been doing for you? All is settled now.”
                “Oh! kind friend,” said Elinor, receiving the little bundle of papers which he
                    had prepared so as to look business?like (taking care that in fact they should
                    trouble her no more), “how can I thank you? I can only say thank you—thank
                    you—Mr. Leslie, good—good Mr. Leslie. Farewell! I must not stay; let me go.”
                “And it is this moment I have been waiting for all day,” said he.
                “Have you, indeed? I am very sorry to have kept you so long. How kind of you not
                    to have gone away. But I am so glad you did stay; I had got a note written for
                    you, but I should have been uncertain whether you received it.”
                “A note!” cried Leslie; “let me have it;” and
                    perceiving it closed in her hand, he gently took that hand, to draw the paper
                    from when a violent start from Elinor made him, too, start, and looking where
                    she looked, he saw Laura standing but a few yards from them. She came forward
                    directly that she perceived she was observed.
                “Elinor,” said she, “is it thus you keep your promise?”
                “I did not promise,” said Elinor; “besides, I came only to say that I could not
                    come.”
                “Go home,” said Laura, in a low, trembling voice.
                Leslie did not mean to be scolded like a schoolboy; he approached Elinor with the
                    open, commonplace air of an acquaintance, and offering his hand, “Good evening,
                    then, Miss Ladylift,” said he. “It gives me great pleasure if I have been useful
                    to you, and I trust you will command my services on any future occasion.”
                “Go home, Elinor,” Miss Chanson repeated, and Elinor, puzzled, moved away and
                    disappeared, letting fall, as she did so, the little twisted note, which by this
                    time she had forgotten.
                
                Laura, meantime, made several efforts to speak, while Leslie politely waited, his
                    eyes averted, and only listening indifferently for anything she might wish to
                    say. But he was surprised and startled out of this indifference by a sudden
                    outburst of tears from Laura, who, unable to withhold her emotion any longer,
                    gave way, and wept like one most miserable.
                “Miss Chanson,” said he, coming up to her; “alas! what is the matter? Are you
                    ill? can I do anything? Lean on me, I beseech you.”
                Laura’s tears flowed only the more profusely, and it was in vain she used her
                    utmost effort to restrain the sobs which burst from her breast. She did, in
                    fact, put her hand on his arm, but she turned away her head, and avoided, as
                    much as she could, any support or assistance he would have given her.
                “Forgive me. I did not know I was so weak. I am ashamed, like one on the rack.
                    Pain and shame—pain and shame for me who have been so proud, so sheltered from
                    both!”
                “What is it you mean?” cried Leslie, feeling
                    the awkwardness of his position, yet not displeased at its novelty, only quite
                    resolved to commit himself in no manner, and to no thing. “Why, or how, can Miss
                    Chanson be the subject of pain?”
                “I shall not be, if I can think I am your sister,” said she, suddenly. “A sister
                    prefers her brother’s happiness to her own—if he is happy, so is she. I have
                    just learned what are your feelings. I did not always know them, but I do now
                    ......”
                Her voice broke off, and though she tried to go on she could not.
                “What do you know?” said Leslie, not at all choosing that Laura should force
                    herself on him as a confidant, nor be able to say that he was the lover of
                    Elinor. “I have nothing to discover, beyond a casual circumstance in which I
                    have been of some slight use to your friend, but if it is true I am to hope for
                    the kindness of a sister here”—and he tried to take her hand, which she very
                    hastily snatched away—“ my happiness would be great in proportion to my want
                    since infancy, of every kindly home tie.”
                
                Laura raised her large, fine eyes to his, with a look interpreted by him to mean,
                    “Is that indeed all you can feel?” and then suddenly put out her hand, which he
                    took, and felt that it trembled.
                “Be it so! yes,” said Laura, “and now believe that I will promote your wishes in
                    any way you will direct me. I have no self any longer.”
                “How can I thank you,” said Leslie; “but do not mistake me—I want no service from
                    any one. I have no wishes, unless, indeed, I might entertain that of again
                    enjoying the pleasure of such society as made my life happy under your
                    roof.”
                Laura sighed deeply, and shook her head. “Ah, yes! you use such words very
                    lightly. Well, be it so; come to us again, Mr. Leslie, and if ...... am I not
                    your sister?” she concluded, at last, in an eager, abrupt voice.
                “I feel,” said Leslie—not knowing what to say he felt—“ I, the most unworthy
                    ......”
                “I’ll explain that I met you,” said Laura, breaking off what he was saying very
                    impatiently; “you will be very welcome to my
                    brother—my real brother,” she added, forcing a smile to her pale lips.
                    “To?morrow, then,” and she moved away; but in all her violence of emotion, she
                    had recollected the little twisted note, and had stooped and secured it, without
                    attracting Leslie’s attention to it.
                “What is all this?” thought Leslie, looking after her as she hastily disappeared.
                    “I am to understand that she thought me her lover! and not only forgiven, but
                    taken for a brother. Brother, indeed! There’s something generous about
                    her—romantic enough. But how unlike Elinor—that inquiring, innocent look, those
                    confiding eyes! Why should this Laura want me to see more of her?
                    Can it be real generosity? But I will have nobody force upon me the character of
                    a lover. I am free!”
            
            
            
                CHAPTER VI.
                LAURA had now entered on a desperate game, which she resolved at every
                    hazard should end in making her the wife of Leslie. Right is so much the
                    essential point in our actions, that scarce any villany is deliberately done
                    without justifying it to ourselves; and so Laura, when not abandoned to passion,
                    found good reasons in the advantages to Leslie, and in her own superior powers
                    of making him happy, to carry her along the path from which she could not think
                    of turning. Every instrument must be laid hold of; she had already made her
                    brother an unconscious volunteer, and she next prepared her cousin to assist in
                    the cause.
                The same fiction which had served with Mr.
                    Chanson she made use of to Sir Peter. His flame for Laura was not such as to
                    make him stand in the way of any serious matrimonial project; on the contrary,
                    he would have been proud to see her chosen by some cavalier of high merit, an
                    alliance with whom would have made everything splendid and jovial, and
                    creditable to his own admiration. That his cousin Laura should be
                    neglected, or laid aside for another, was as impossible as it would be
                    humiliating; and Laura, who had a good insight into motives and character,
                    availed herself of this feeling. She had only to sigh a little, and cast her
                    eyes once or twice to the ceiling, before Sir Peter inquired whether anything on
                    earth, that he could affect, had vexed his darling Laura; and then, with a
                    graceful show of candour, and of that confidence which a woman may show to a
                    boy, but a boy already worth trusting, did Laura partly hint, and partly tell
                    the same lie she had told her brother, and which she was beginning to believe
                    herself.
                Sir Peter’s indignation was boundless— his
                    desire to approve himself her true knight zealous—he would fight Leslie to?day
                    if she pleased. Laura had only to temper his ardour, and to insinuate that at
                    the, point matters were arrived at between herself and Leslie, anything which
                    injured him, or drove him into a shyness of the family, would be fatal to her
                    interests. No, the only thing Sir Peter could do, was to occupy Elinor’s
                    attention. a little, keep her from such “open flirtation” with Leslie.
                “There is no harm in that, is there Pet—is there Peter?”
                “I should think not, indeed—little coquette that she is—and fool that
                        he is, not to see through such feminine arts. She a nun,
                    indeed!”
                Accordingly, the day when Leslie thought proper to accept the invitation
                    forwarded by Mr. Chanson, upon hearing from his sister that she had accidentally
                    met him, Sir Peter went up to Elinor the moment she came into the drawing?room,
                    and forced her into talk, which he continued as he took her into dinner, and sat
                    himself down beside her. Leslie had given his
                    arm to Laura, as mistress of the house, and had quite determined to pay no
                    attention to Elinor, such as could justify Laura in “talking secrets” with him;
                    but he was not prepared to see Elinor an object of attention to another; and
                    apparently well pleased to be so.
                And so, in fact, she was, for her whole being was at ease now that Leslie was
                    returned, and she had leisure to listen to her companion, who was as young as
                    herself, and very gay and droll, and made her laugh, as girls will at nonsense.
                    Leslie had habits of perfect self?control, though he was so young, and he forced
                    himself to be at ease so successfully, that Laura could not determine in her own
                    mind whether he observed what was going on or not. Careless as he seemed,
                    however, he was watching them, and a jealous pang shot through Leslie’s heart,
                    as to whether it was possible that this young soldier should ever have indeed
                    had an opportunity of seeing Elinor as he had done in that deep
                    wood, by that fair fall of waters; and though
                    his consciousness said no, still the question made him watch uneasily the
                    progress of their intercourse.
                After dinner, Sir Peter, intent on the interests of his cousin, still kept up the
                    attempt to monopolise Elinor. He had provided for so doing by engaging her
                    beforehand to sing a particular song for him, which, by a great effort of his
                    memory; he had succeeded in remembering to have heard from her the evening of
                    his arrival, and when the party was settling to the employments of the evening,
                    he followed Laura to the piano?forte, near which Elinor was working, and while
                    Laura played, began to request the execution of the promise he had obtained.
                “If you like,” said Elinor, “by and by; but will you be so kind as to let me sing
                    later? Miss Chanson wishes those ladies to sing, she told me.”
                Sir Peter could not but comply with this modest request, so unlike the answer of
                    young ladies more in the world, and moved
                    away, while Leslie abruptly took his place, sitting down beside her, and
                    assuming that he had that right to her attention which a secret between them
                    brought with it.
                “You are happy now, are you not?” said he; “there are no more such tears as you
                    say you shed over that little bundle of papers?”
                Elinor looked up, frightened lest any one should hear.
                “No one is listening to us,” said Leslie, “no one can tell what we are saying;
                    the insufferable drumming of the piano?forte prevents the human voice from being
                    heard.”
                “Drumming!” said Elinor, with a sudden smile of surprise; “nay, is it not very
                    good playing?”
                “Do you like it?” said Leslie, suddenly.
                “Oh, yes! it is very good indeed.”
                “Do you like it?” repeated Leslie, smiling also, but urging his
                    question.
                “I think so,” said Elinor; “one ought to like what other people are so kind as to
                    do, and it is very difficult music.”
                “Still you do not answer. Do you like that loud, hard drumming?”
                
                “When you say loud and hard,” said Elinor, “you teach me what to say. Nobody
                    likes what they can call loud, hard drumming.”
                “I prejudice you! That is very true,” said Leslie. “So we will leave off talking
                    about it, and I will entreat you, the moment it is over, to replace it, by
                    singing the Spirit Song. Do you remember, you studied it for me?”
                “Yes; and since you have been away I have studied it more, and can sing it
                    better,” said Elinor.
                “Who would do that for me, except yourself?” said Leslie. “Nobody cares where I
                    go, or what I like, or when I shall be back, or whether I die on the road, or
                    live.”
                “I do,” said Elinor; “and people who know you better must care more
                    than I.”
                “If you say so, never mind the rest of the world,” said Leslie; “and
                    now the piano?forte is at rest. Come, dear Miss Ladylift, let me hear my
                    song.”
                Elinor rose, but hung back, while Leslie
                    obtained Laura’s permission. Laura assented.
                “Nay, why do you ask me? I am always delighted when Elinor can be persuaded to
                    let us hear that lovely voice. I merely played a little air to bring people
                    round the piano?forte.” And while she spoke, she looked round for her cousin,
                    and summoned him by a glance, which he well understood, and rushed to the
                    rescue, seeing which, Laura moved away, and left the coming skirmish to do what
                    mischief it would.
                “I am so glad to see you ready to sing,” said Sir Peter; “I was afraid I should
                    have to wait long for Adeste.”
                “Miss Ladylift is going to have the kindness to sing a song which I have begged
                    for,” said Leslie, stiffly.
                “But mine first, I hope; you promised me first,” said Sir Peter, in the blandest
                    tone.
                “I think you had the goodness to get up on purpose to oblige me,” said Leslie,
                    “did not you?”
                
                “Yes,” said Elinor, frightened, and looking round for Laura.
                “Then let me find it; here’s the book I know—yes, here is the song.”
                “Ah! that’s not fair,” said Sir Peter, “you don’t forget how very kindly you
                    granted my petition, and I have been depending upon you.”
                “I did promise him,” said Elinor, looking at Leslie humbly and appealingly.
                “Did you,” said Leslie, very coldly; “nay, don’t allow me to interfere with your
                    arrangements.”
                “I can’t be so indifferent,” said Sir Peter; “mine, mine first; Mr.
                    Leslie, you see, says it does not matter.”
                “Allow Miss Ladylift to determine that point,” said Leslie.
                “May I?” said Elinor, joyfully, thinking if she might settle it, the difficulty
                    was over; “then let me sing first Adeste, and yours afterwards, Mr. Leslie.”
                Leslie made no answer, except a bow, and stepping backward, withdrew from the
                    circle round the piano?forte; nor returned to
                    claim the song which Elinor, when she had got through Sir Peter’s, at once
                    looked round for him to hear. Her sham admirer did all in his power to take her
                    attention from the real one, but Elinor could by no means regain the composure
                    Leslie’s displeasure had taken from her, and she sought with her timid eyes, all
                    the evening, the opportunity of obtaining reconciliation, which he steadily
                    withheld.
                Thus ended the first day of the visit, to which she had looked forward as the
                    time of such happiness.
                Laura next morning took her to task.
                “What makes you walk about with such a mournful air?” said she; “you look like a
                    naughty child who wants to kiss and make it up. What ails you?”
                “I am not a child,” said Elinor, in her sweet, humble voice; “but I am what you
                    please to call naughty ......”
                “And want to kiss?” said Laura, scornfully.
                “No,” said Elinor, hurt at being turned into ridicule, and at receiving reproof
                        in a spirit that did not deserve that
                    treatment.
                “What then,” said Laura, “and who is it you have offended?”
                “I am afraid I have offended Mr. Leslie.”
                “Is it possible you think enough of a man of his age, indeed any age, to trouble
                    yourself about offending him or not?” said Laura.
                “Why should not I?” said Elinor, aghast.
                “Because,” answered Laura, breaking out; “it is the most absurd thing for a girl
                    with any proper spirit, I ever heard of in my life.”
                “But I have no proper spirit,” said Elinor, who felt that if Leslie would forgive
                    her, she would beg pardon from him with all her heart.
                “You don’t know even what it is,” said Laura; “upon my word, your conduct is
                    perfectly indelicate. You might almost as well go and ask him if he will be kind
                    enough to accept you for his wife.”
                
                “His wife!” cried Elinor, quickly; “what has that to do with being sorry to have
                    displeased him? Wife! what can you mean?”
                “Nonsense! I do hate affected innocence, and all that stuff, merely to impose
                    upon a man. Heaven knows they are open enough to flattery; but, really you must
                    allow me to say, that you persecute Mr. Leslie, with yours. You follow him
                    about, and look at him, and invite him to your side, and force him, really force
                    him to pay you attentions, which he probably would willingly he paying
                    elsewhere, only he can’t get rid of you.”
                “Oh! indeed, indeed, you mistake!” said Elinor, almost amazed to death; “he can
                    get rid of me any moment. Think how he went away yesterday evening, and would
                    not even say good night, and indeed I am afraid to seem to be intrusive, and I
                    never do put myself in his way, or do anything to speak to him, unless it comes
                    naturally from him.”
                “You mean, in short,” said Laura, most disdainfully, “that his constant
                        attendance proceeds solely from his own
                    wish for your society.”
                “Yes, I suppose so,” said Elinor, bewildered; “I don’t know any other
                    reason.”
                “Really, you are a perfect simpleton, or choose to seem so,” said Laura.
                “I dare say he is sorry for me,” said Elinor, seeking excuses for Leslie’s
                    kindness. “I am away from all my friends, and he is very, very kind in giving me
                    advice.”
                “And what right have you to ask him, rather than me,” said Laura; “most women
                    like to consult women, rather than young men, and most people will judge those
                    who do otherwise, to be as forward and as bold, as I must say, Elinor, you seem
                    to me.”
                “Am I bold?” said Elinor, sadly, feeling so fearful, and so shy, that she could
                    not comprehend the reproach, and as Laura was habitually out of temper with her,
                    taking it as an instance of what she must meekly bear from her hostess, rather
                    than as a true accusation against herself.
                It influenced her conduct however, towards Leslie, for under Laura’s eye she could not act with the total unconsciousness
                    of her behaviour hitherto; she was obliged to act by rule, for she had no
                    feeling of having transgressed a woman’s duty, and therefore no impulse to
                    direct her. There was, however, always such quiet maidenliness about her, that
                    it was only by a shade that she was altered, and Leslie being on his high horse,
                    did not so much as perceive it, but thought all the reserve, and all the
                    withdrawal of friendliness was on his own side.
                Sir Peter learned through Laura, that his plot had succeeded, and took a boyish
                    delight in the mischief made, over which he laughed with his cousin, as two
                    children do over a ringdove in a string, which they are tormenting; but Elinor,
                    if she did not offer apologies to her kind friend Leslie, had no spirit or
                    inclination to laugh or talk with Sir Peter, and was almost as silent to him as
                    she had been to Leslie, the first time he sat by her at breakfast.
                In this mood, the amusements of the day were arranged. Men have a way of employing themselves at amusements, which
                    causes their feelings to become secondary to their sports, and thus Leslie,
                    angry, even anxious as he was, yet took it as a matter of course that he should
                    join heart and soul in the pastime suggested by Sir Peter, and accepted by the
                    Squire. This was a drag, which an adept sportsman was quickly sent forward to
                    lead over the country, choosing puzzling places, and paths difficult to follow,
                    in order to try the power of some young blood hounds belonging to Mr. Chanson.
                    The most perplexing pass thus selected, was a profound gap in the country, at
                    the bottom of which ran the brook which formed the waterfall in the wood; and
                    the rocky sides of which fringed with trees and bushes, rose very far above the
                    bed of the stream.
                On one side of this, Laura promised to take her station, and Elinor was to
                    accompany her in order to witness the achievements of the hounds in these
                    difficult circumstances. There is no faster running than a drag, and luckily for
                    the sportsmen, the day was a cool one, of the
                    now declining autumn, and the slight frost made the scent puzzling enough to try
                    the acumen of the eager hounds. They had a long circuit to make before they
                    should reach the final point where the ladies were to await them, and these
                    latter had arrived at the rendezvous some time before any sound of the chase
                    broke upon the amber stillness of the autumn scene.
                They sat down together on the stump of a tree, Laura holding a book, and Elinor
                    producing from the pocket of her black apron a bit of curiously fine cambric, on
                    which she was working a cobweb pattern, the whole of which could have been
                    rolled into a walnut shell. They were quite silent. Elinor was afraid of Laura,
                    and her spirits froze under the unsympathetic influence. To?day, especially she
                    was shut into herself, and she mechanically pursued the occupation before her,
                    so far pleased that Laura did not disturb her in it.
                At length the cheerfulest of sounds broke the silence, the distant tongue of hounds, rising and falling, bursting out and
                    subsiding. It was a natural piano and forte exactly suiting woods and dingles,
                    and inspiring the ear, which heard them for the first time, with the delight of
                    an unexplored pleasure. Elinor, finely strung to sounds, took in these with a
                    curiosity and enjoyment which made her fingers stay on her work, and her heart
                    send a flush of blood into her changeful cheeks.
                “Are they coming?” she said, at last, half rising, and looking at her
                    companion.
                “It seems so,” said Laura, coldly, rising also; “I suppose you can hear the
                    hounds?”
                “Yes, and now they are nearer; they seem going away again; there! do listen,
                    there’s an echo.”
                “Everybody knows that,” said Laura.
                She walked forward, and Elinor by her side, they approached very nearly the rocky
                    gap worn by the water; they could hear the boom of the waterfall far below and
                    the unaccountable changefulness in the intensity of its sound which running
                        water gives out. It was a wide gap, and
                    presently the bay of the hounds increasing, they saw white spots glancing among
                    the underwood, then the whole shape and colour of the hounds, full of the
                    tension of the pursuit, and puzzling out their way to the brink of the chasm.
                    Here the foremost threw up his head, and changed his note to one of distress;
                    others came up, scented the prey to the very edge, and then ceasing their cry of
                    pursuit, seemed measuring the leap, and with distracted anxiety ran to and fro,
                    tempting themselves to pass it.
                At this moment a horseman arrived; he alighted, and cheered the hounds to
                    persevere. It was Mr. Chanson himself; he knew the secret pass intended for
                    them, but would only act like magical music, applauding their better guesses,
                    but not explaining wherein the achievement lay. They were maddened to accomplish
                    it, by his voice, and at last the hound which first came up put himself over the
                    edge, where there seemed no hold, and whimpering at what he was about to venture, passed down the rock a
                    little way, seemed to find a point where the leap was possible, and presently
                    breaking out into music again, was seen emerging almost perpendicularly on the
                    other side of the chasm, and away in full cry on the opposite bank. Once taught
                    the way, the others followed, and Mr. Chanson as soon as he saw they were over,
                    turned his horse up the stream, and gallopped away to a further point where was
                    a bridge. He met Sir Peter as he went, and turned him on the same path as
                    himself; a minute afterwards the third horseman came up, Leslie, making straight
                    to the chasm. His horse and he had been down, as appeared by the mud they were
                    covered with, and to make up for the time they had lost, were going their best
                    pace on the track the rider judged by the sound, would bring him straight to the
                    hounds.
                As he neared the chasm, he caught a glance of the horsemen who were now on the
                    other side; he checked the speed of his horse a little, encouraged him by his voice and hand, and then rode steadily
                    towards the leap. Laura, aware of the danger, cried to him to turn up the
                    stream, but though he saw the difficulty, and though he had no wish to be
                    killed, he was at the age, when it seems a matter of course not to
                    be killed, and not to fail; and disregarding her entreaties, put his horse at
                    the leap, and got safe over. Laura as pale as a corpse, shrieked loudly as he
                    leaped. Elinor, quite ignorant there was any peril, was excited by the stirring
                    sight, so that she clapped her hands, laughed, and leaped with delight. Leslie
                    saw them both, and when the impetus following the leap slackened, he stopped his
                    horse, and giving up the pursuit turned him, and dismounted beside the
                    ladies.
                “They have run into it now,” said he; “I may as well stop at once.”
                Laura had been so thoroughly frightened, that she did not instantly recover. She
                    remonstrated with him on the rashness with genuine emotion, which he easily
                    distinguished from any affected nervous? ness,
                    and was flattered by it; but it amused him much more to see Elinor’s excited
                    look, which turned to perplexity, as she heard and saw Laura’s alarm.
                “My horse did it gallantly, did not he?” said Leslie, looking cheerily at Elinor,
                    whose face caught and returned his smile.
                “Like flying,” said Elinor; “it was very pretty.”
                “How childish you are!” said Laura; “you know nothing of the danger.”
                “After all, there was none,” said Leslie, “and the appearance of it gave zest to
                    the leap.”
                “It is very pleasant,” said Elinor, “to see danger, if one is safe.”
                “How do you know that?” said Leslie.
                “Because in the convent,” said Elinor; answering quickly to his quick question,
                    “the waves used to dash against the garden wall, but could not come in, and we
                    all liked to be near them. But once the waves broke over, and then we all ran
                    away.”
                Leslie laughed, and looked investigatingly at Elinor’s face which had blushed brightly, as she replied to his imperative
                    question, and he was thinking why she blushed. Laura was little pleased at this
                    effect of Elinor’s simplicity, and seeing him inclined to turn his attention
                    entirely to her young companion, suddenly declared herself tired, and said they
                    would go home. She chose a path along the rocky channel of the brook, where no
                    horse could be even led, and could not refrain from turning her shoulder
                    pettishly to Leslie as they parted. He scarcely observed it, he had forgotten
                    also his reigned anger with Elinor, and he rode gently away, thinking of the
                    little scene that had passed.
                “How moveable her nature is,” said he. “It was made on purpose, I think, to
                    complete mine, cast in my mould, when a man had been completed, and it was fit
                    only to form a woman.”
            
            
            
                CHAPTER VII.
                ELINOR accepted peace with Leslie gladly and gratefully. Nothing was
                    said between them, but they resumed without words their former position. He did
                    not want—from her at least—any show of spirit, or assertion of the rights of
                    woman; the meek glad cordiality of the young gift was what enchanted him.
                “I should have taken Leslie for Elinor’s lover, if you had not told me, Laura,”
                    said her brother.
                The word went like a dagger through her heart, but she smiled as though the thing
                    were beneath notice, and said merely, “Oh! that little girl! he is
                    good natured to her.” And Mr. Chanson was willing to adopt her view of the subject. Nevertheless he would
                    have been glad the expected word should have been said, which plighted his guest
                    and his sister; and one morning as they stood together, after breakfast, in
                    front of a great dahlia bed, he broke out into words.
                “This is all my sister’s doing, the whole of this garden; I know nothing of such
                    matters, and it is very lucky for me to have a woman of so much taste and manner
                    at the head of my establishment.”
                Leslie had been profoundly meditating on Elinor, but roused himself to answer.
                    “Indeed it is; we are glad enough of the result, but we don’t like the trouble
                    of providing for it beforehand.”
                “Laura is uncommonly clever about the management of one’s house,” said her
                    brother, “indeed about everything. She looks well, don’t she, at the head of
                    one’s table? I am proud of her.”
                “With great reasons,” said Leslie.
                Mr. Chanson was warmed by this agreement.
                
                “And it is my good luck that a girl who might have her own house in London, and
                    do what she likes—for she has all her mother’s property—she is only my half
                    sister, you know, and her mother had Kitsal, you know, at her brother’s
                    death.”
                “Kitsal,” said Leslie, absently, but with a kind of wise voice, as though that
                    word explained the whole matter.
                “It was turned into money,” said the Squire. “If Laura should ever marry, I
                    should try to keep her interested in the county by giving my influence to bring
                    her husband into Parliament; I could do it, sir. They want a Whig, and at the
                    next election, I could, and I would do it.”
                “That’s an object worth every man’s ambition,” said Leslie. “I wonder you never
                    put yourself in, you would surely have liked it.”
                “No, no, it’s not the place for me; I was young once, but I never could hear
                    anybody talk above ten minutes without falling asleep, and what should I do
                    therefore in the House of Commons? I leave all that to the clever men and the fine gentlemen. It is not
                    in me.”
                Mr. Chanson was pleased with himself for this successful exposition of the
                    advantages which an alliance with Laura held out, and when he saw Leslie in the
                    course of the day talking with his sister, he repeated to himself with inward
                    self applause “it works, it works!”
                Sir Peter also tried to put in a good word for her; “Desperately fine shoulders
                    my cousin has,” said he, looking at her in a becoming evening dress; “she is a
                    fine creature, don’t you think so, yourself?”
                “To be sure, everybody must; good colouring too—bright and clear.”
                “Yes, very unlike that little pale sparrow,” said Sir Peter, designating
                    Elinor.
                “Sparrow! oh yes! she chirps nicely, don’t you think so, yourself?” said
                    Leslie.
                “What her singing? I am not very learned about music, but I was much indebted to
                    her for obliging me so about that song the other night.”
                Nobody ever caught Leslie wincing under a
                    sudden attack, he answered readily. “Ay, she was conscientious in keeping her
                    first engagement.”
                Sir Peter laughed; “I doubt,” said he, “whether that would be uppermost in her
                    thoughts. Conventual as she has been, she has no objection to learn the polite
                    art of flirtation; you see that yourself?”
                “Not I,” said Leslie, “I’ve something else to do; and I apprehend if I had not,
                    that little sparrow would only chirp defiance at me.”
                “I apprehend no such thing,” said Sir Peter, “I mean to have a walk
                    and a talk with her to?morrow morning; just keep my secret, and don’t spoil
                    sport.”
                “It is no matter of mine,” said Leslie.
                “You have other views, perhaps,” said Sir Peter.
                “What?” said Leslie, in a quite altered tone, which sounded very much like,
                    “Don’t be impertinent.”
                But Elinor! Leslie felt she did not love him, that her regard was one of respect
                    and liking, such as she felt for the old Holy
                    Mother in the convent, only tempered by the unholiness of his sex and
                    conversation, and he did not know but what the giddy and prattling Sir Peter
                    might succeed in inspiring those feelings of which she was hitherto ignorant.
                    But he could have no intentions except those of amusing himself for
                    the hour, and Leslie felt quite indignant that any man except himself, should
                    entertain views which could interfere with her happiness. He resolved to warn
                    her; and at dinner when a large party were all talking, he asked her what were
                    her engagements for the next day. Elinor did not know that she had any.
                “I said I would show Sir Peter where the stones with shells in them are to be
                    found,” she added, after a pause.
                “Why did you say you had no engagement, then?” said Leslie, abruptly.
                His tone made her blush suddenly, for it alarmed her with the feeling of having
                    unconsciously said what she ought not; but after two or three seconds she
                    answered, “because I forgot it.”
                
                Leslie did not believe her, he saw the rising blood, and interpreted it his own
                    way; but the one truth told about her intended walk was enough effort, without
                    requiring a second about her motive, and he went on, “Don’t do as you
                    promised.”
                “No?” said Elinor, astonished.
                “Let older people show him the stones with shells in them,” said he, “you had
                    better not.”
                “Why?” asked Elinor, “I once showed them to you.”
                “Yes—very true—but you know that as soon as you came to this new scene, you
                    thought I could be useful in giving you an insight into it, and in advising you.
                    I have done so to the best of my power, have I not? so that you can be sure your
                    fast friend.”
                “Indeed you are,” said Elinor.
                “Now you are not so sure of everybody—and unless you wish it very much
                    ......”
                “Oh! no; besides he can easily find the way if I tell him.”
                
                “Yes; and never mind saying much about it to anybody, that’s my advice. It will
                    be better just not to do it.”
                Elinor instantly agreed; and after this they talked on other subjects, about
                    which, although Elinor laughed a great deal less than with Sir Peter, she was
                    far more deeply interested, and forgot every one else, while his low voice, and
                    her lower rejoinder was suffered to continue uninterrupted.
                “Oh! that inveterate flirt!” said Sir Peter to Laura, by whose side he sat; and
                    Laura with death in her heart, was cross to her cousin, and conveyed in obscure
                    language, which had a clear meaning for him, that he did not help her, and was
                    either clumsy or careless.
                The boy was piqued at this, to strain his efforts for better success, and it was
                    therefore with eagerness that he watched next morning, lest the promised walk
                    should escape him; but, Leslie also had his attention alive, and in order to
                    give Elinor a good excuse for not going out, he made use of a means, which no object less interesting
                    could have induced him to bring into play. This was a literary effort of his
                    own, a poem which he could willingly have read to a severe judge, who would have
                    treated it according to its own faults or merits; but very unwillingly to an
                    audience whose admiration was determined beforehand, by the fact that it was
                    their guest and friend who wrote it.
                Laura’s eagerness to accept his offer was based on exactly this reason.
                
                    
                        “D’ailleurs tous nos parens sont sages, vertueux.”
                        BOILEAU.
                    
                
                “Oh! thanks, thanks, what a treat it will be! Peter, here’s such a pleasure for
                    you, Mr. Leslie is going to read a poem of his own to us. Oh! I am all
                    impatience—such a treat.”
                “Nay,” said Leslie, “how can you know that beforehand. I want your opinion
                    whether the thing is good or not.”
                “Oh! there can be no doubt of that. Come to my morning room, where we shall not
                    be interrupted; I could not endure any
                    interruption. You don’t mind Elinor, do you, she is there already.”
                “Not in the least,” said the candid Leslie. Accordingly, to this select
                    committee, he about half an hour after this time unfolded his MS., and told them
                    it was a few verses, which he had a mind to send to a magazine then in fashion,
                    to see whether they would be accepted or not.
                “Of course they must,” said Laura, “they will be only too happy to print anything
                        you may write.”
                “If they don’t,” said Leslie, “I shall be mortified that my verses should be
                    worse than those which they do print—but a man cannot judge for himself.
                        I like them, but that is no test; I shall learn their value
                    from your decision.”
                “I know THAT will be favourable,” said Laura.
                “And you, Miss Ladylift?” said Leslie, to Elinor.
                “I can tell if I like them, or not; but that’s all,” said Elinor.
                Leslie smiled, and Laura flattered herself he was comparing the childish
                        simplicity of the young girl, with her own
                    confidence in his genius. It was a poem of some ten or twelve quatrains,
                    beginning, “I stood within the graves o’ershadow’d vault,” verses which were
                    afterwards sealed with public applause, and which delighted Leslie himself; but,
                    he had no confidence that they would be approved by others. The approbation on
                    this occasion was unbounded on the part of the mistress of the house; but the
                    author was not at all touched by it, except so far as he considered it a homage
                    to his own personal merits; indeed he thought none of them able to form any
                    useful judgment, but he had a mind to hear what Elinor would say.
                “It is too long, I think,” said Elinor.
                “Good heavens, too long!” cried Laura, “I only wish it were ten times
                    longer.”
                Elinor coloured up to her eyes, at being thus convicted of misapprehension; but
                    Leslie smiled brightly, and after a few seconds said she was quite right; as he
                    read it, he had himself been struck by the necessity of cutting out some of the
                    stanzas.
                
                “It is very useful to read aloud what one has silently written,” said he; “which
                    do you think I must take away?”
                Elinor answered nothing at all to this, and Leslie had not expected she
                    could.
                The morning had worn on meantime, and when the party seemed likely to disperse,
                    Elinor had withdrawn to her room, and it was plain to Sir Peter that his chance
                    was over for the present. He took Laura into the conservatory just outside, and
                    here their conversation soon began to break into gleeful laughter, and
                    exclamations of capital! and then hush! and foolish boy! Leslie paid no
                    attention, but went his way, with his verses in his hand, remodelling what he
                    thought faulty, and intent on showing the approving answer of the magazine when
                    it should arrive, to his late audience.
                In no long time after, he was summoned to luncheon, and then to an expedition
                    which had been arranged to a neighhouring lion. When the ladies had gone
                    upstairs to get their cloaks and bonnets, hats
                    and habits, Laura followed Elinor into her room, and in a friendly tone asked
                    whether she particularly wished to go to Gilbert’s Glen.
                “I should like it very much,” said Elinor, not sure what answer the question
                    meant to get.
                “Oh! then of course it is settled—it does not signify.”
                “What does not? I am quite willing to stay at home.”
                “What, really!” said Laura; “are you certain?”
                “Quite, if you prefer it.”
                “Nay, in that case, you could do me a service. I meant to have gone myself this
                    morning, but Mr. Leslie’s interesting poem prevented me. I want some specimens
                    from the Neenshill quarry to show Mr. Goell to?night, and if you don’t mind
                    staying, you could get them while I am away.”
                “Is Sir Peter going to Neenshill?” said Elinor, speaking suddenly the thought
                    that instantly occurred.
                
                “Peter! no—he is to ride with me—what should take him there?”
                Elinor coloured again, at her mistake, and willingly undertook Laura’s
                    commission. Pleased at her success, Laura descended the staircase, and found the
                    party assembled in the hall, some for riding, some for driving.
                “Isn’t Miss Ladylift coming?” said Sir Peter.
                “Well! do you know, she has changed her mind,” said Laura; “she says she thinks
                    the day too hot, though I don’t know that it is hotter than it was. I can’t
                    persuade her, she thinks she had better stay quietly in her room—her head aches
                    she says.”
                Thus glibly lying, Laura got into the phaeton, and the party set off.
                Leslie had been appointed to drive Laura; therefore he saw nothing of the
                    movements of the rest, till they arrived at the destined place, and assembled to
                    walk up the glen; then both he and his companions missed Sir Peter.
                “Oh! such a misfortune!” said one of the girls
                    who had come on horseback, “that beautiful horse of Mr. Chanson’s, which Sir
                    Peter was riding, fell lame.”
                “Really,” cried Laura, “how annoyed my brother will be.”
                “And Sir Peter thought best to ride it back gently, when we were about
                    half?way.”
                “The best thing he could do,” said Laura.
                Leslie meantime spoke to the groom who had accompanied the riding party. “What’s
                    the matter with the horse?” said he, indifferently.
                “Don’t think there’s nothing, sir,” said the groom; “but Sir Peter took it quite
                    on his?self.”
                Leslie feared Sir Peter had taken more interesting matter on his?self than
                    conveying home a lame horse, and instantly he suspected Elinor of being a party
                    to this pre?arranged lameness of Rampage; and he resolved to know what it all
                    meant.
                He followed the party who had walked forward into the glen, and expressing his admiration of the scene to Laura, said he
                    should like to climb the right side of the valley, where the rocks were
                    steepest, and would join her again at the farthest outlet; but, if he should not
                    be arrived by the time they reached it, they were not to wait. Laura gave an
                    easy assent, which was more than he expected; but he had been prepared to
                    disregard any remonstrance she might make, and therefore at once struck away
                    into the wood, and having lost sight of the rest, turned, and came straight to
                    the inn where the horses were being put up. The present of a sovereign convinced
                    the groom that it could do the horse he had ridden no harm to turn round and
                    carry Mr. Leslie home, and that he, the groom, was to return in the vacated seat
                    of the phaeton. Accordingly Leslie mounted and riding gently away for the first
                    quarter of a mile gradually increased his horse’s speed, till he was going at a
                    good hand?gallop back on the road to Chanson Wood. Had Sir Peter been cautiously
                    riding a lame horse, Leslie must have over?
                    taken him, but he did no such thing, and this convinced him more and more that
                    the sudden lameness was a mere fiction, fitting into the sudden headache which
                    he believed to be equally fictitious.
                When he came to the house, nobody was there—the servants knew nothing—had not
                    seen Miss Ladylift go out or come in. Leslie had met with Rampage in the
                    stableyard being led about quite cured of his lameness, but not yet of his
                    perspiration; his own horse required similar cares, and the head groom uttered
                    anathemas upon young gentlemen’s “hignorance of orses,” such as often follow
                    upon young gentlemen’s excited passions which the grooms leave out of the
                    account when they attribute all to “hignorance.”
                Turning at once to the wood, Leslie strode along the path which led to the
                    quarry, with all the feelings of an injured man, and in a very short time had
                    reached the hill, the highest point of which contained the quarry. It was dotted
                    with trees in natural clumps, growing from rocky ledges which broke out over the surface from top to bottom,
                    and among these the path wound, appearing and disappearing in its descent to the
                    level ground. He stood a moment at the bottom, feeling that his appearance in
                    pursuit of his rival would not wear a very dignified aspect, and while this
                    occurred to him, two figures emerged for a moment from the wood to an open space
                    and again disappeared among the trees. Leslie’s eyes were fixed on the next
                    opening, devouring the space beforehand; again the figures came and vanished,
                    but nearer and plainer, and near and plain enough to know they were Elinor and
                    Sir Peter. Leslie ground his teeth—to be deceived was one of the bitter
                    feelings?that a creature so guileless as she seemed should have
                    deceived, and been believed by him, was another. He thought at
                    first he would meet and confound her by mere silence—then he would have given
                    much not to have returned, and not to be found out by her in such interest as to
                    watch her.
                
                Under this sudden thought he dashed into the thick of the wood, and there, from
                    safe distances, again fixed his eyes on the path along which they must go. They
                    passed very near, Sir Peter carrying her basket, and talking with great
                    animation. Elinor’s face was hidden by her great hat and veil; she was saying
                    nothing as she passed, but how could she when her companion was so loquacious?
                    enough, enough, she was walking with him! They passed on, and Leslie strode
                    away, burying himself in the woods till nearly dinner time, and then dressed
                    furiously, and came down to the drawing?room as placidly and calmly as if not
                    one disturbed thought raged within.
                “What became of you, Mr. Leslie?” said Laura; “did you lose your way in the
                    glen?”
                “No,” said Leslie; “but I got so entirely away from the place where we were to
                    have met, that I resolved to borrow your groom’s horse, and ride home without
                    waiting for you.”
                
                Laura let the subject drop. “Look here,” she said, turning to the table; “Elinor
                    has been so kind as to get me some fossils to show Mr. Goell this evening, and
                    after all that tiresome man is not come. They are beautiful, are they not?”
                “Very,” said Leslie, and turned to Elinor. “You got as far as the stone quarry
                    then,” said he, in the blandest tone, “this hot day?”
                Irreproachable as the voice was, it made her colour.
                “Yes,” she said, in a low voice; “but ......” the disjunctive conjunction was
                    indicated, not spoken through, and Leslie, taking up two or three in his hand,
                    said “You must have had a great weight to carry. Your arm must ache, does it
                    not?”
                “No,” said Elinor; “for Si ......”
                “I had the honour of sparing Miss Ladylift that trouble,” said Sir Peter.
                “Oh—yes!” said Leslie, as if the explanation were most satisfactory, and he would
                    not catch the eyes of Elinor, which he felt
                    sought his, to explain or deprecate, or deceive—he thought the latter.
                And now for the next few days Leslie behaved like a brute to Elinor; a polished
                    brute, bringing her shawl, setting her chair, opening the door with frigid
                    politeness, but never once looking her in the face; never coming near for a word
                    of explanation, never entering into what she said or did; never including her in
                    any project or employment. All the time he felt he was straightening, rather
                    than loosing the bond between them, for he was aware she was intent upon
                    explanation, and that at any moment by a return to kindliness he could open all
                    the pent?up feelings of that guileless heart; yes, guileless, for in his most
                    secret thought he was convinced there was no guile in Elinor, though he chose to
                    say, even to himself, there was.
                Meantime, she was so unhappy that she sometimes rebelled against it; she
                    seriously thought she would return to her convent, and hide herself from a world
                    where plainly nobody cared for her. When all her efforts to speak to Leslie, and to conciliate him,
                    failed—when he persevered in mortifying her, and in affecting unconsciousness of
                    her presence, her heart rose quite full of tears, and seemed too swollen for her
                    bosom.
                “What right has he to make me so unhappy,” she said to herself, but Leslie did
                    not melt, though he saw her eyes cloud with what he knew were tears, suppressed
                    though they might be.
                Laura saw all this and was delighted; she thought her plans were working their
                    full effect; and Leslie’s attention to her, which was mostly aimed at vexing
                    Elinor, she readily deceived herself into thinking was wholly to please herself.
                    She was in great spirits; she looked very handsome, and did all that she could
                    imagine would best please her favoured guest. His poem she continually brought
                    forward till he dreaded the very mention of it. Every post, she remembered not
                    to forget her interest about the expected answer, and each time she expressed
                    her conviction that the editor would only not know how to give it sufficient welcome. Leslie felt confident enough of
                    that also, but the pudeur of composition (when
                    the author has written what he felt) made him shrink from so much talk about it.
                    It was the fourth morning after his estrangement from Elinor that the letters as
                    usual being brought round at breakfast, Laura’s inquiry again broke in on
                    Leslie’s glance over those laid beside him. “Is there an answer yet?”—and he,
                    breaking open the seal of a business?like looking one, ran his eye down the
                    page, and replied in rather an unnecessarily indifferent tone,
                “Yes, they refuse it.” Laura had not much tact; instead of dropping so
                    distasteful a subject, she could not let it alone.
                “Impossible! how absurd! and the things they do take, yet refuse yours!—for
                        my part I thought they would have seized upon it like a gold
                    mine! Well they don’t know their own interest.”
                “That is just what they do know,” said Leslie; “what is likely to
                    please, they are certain to adopt,” and he
                    folded each fold of the paper, and put it into his pocket.
                “I only wish you would give it me,” said Laura; “I would print it, and show the
                    world what poetry is.” So she went on, not conscious how this effort to show the
                    author was not mortified, pressed on him the assurance that everybody saw he
                    was.
                Leslie, however, turned the matter into laughter, wished his enemy might write a
                    book; and, in fact, took the rejection to heart very little after the first
                    moment of making it public. But Elinor had seen that he was vexed for some
                    instants, and when the ladies were lingering in the morning?room before
                    separating for their several avocations, she had heard Laura making much of it
                    to the circle round her.
                “Poor Mr. Leslie,” she said; “I’m sorry for Mr. Leslie, he bore it pretty
                    well.”
                In the innocence of her heart, Elinor deduced that he had suffered a great fall,
                    that he was humbled, he who had been so proud and lofty in every way. She
                        glided away, unnoticed; and with a beating
                    heart reached the door of the library, where Leslie was reading, forgetful,
                    probably of the whole matter; or, if he thought of it at all, merely resolving
                    to annihilate the editor some day or other, by giving all his support to the
                    rival magazine. He did not look up, though he saw in a mirror opposite that it
                    was Elinor, and his heart quickened its throb in consequence; but he would not
                    relax from his unkindness.
                She had laid her little plan for doing him a sort of homage, in what she looked
                    upon to be adverse circumstances, and in pursuance of it had already sought for,
                    and found a book, the only circumstance about which that interested her, was
                    that the text in one page was mixed with a certain number of Latin verses, which
                    verses she meant to be her allies in her harmless stratagem. Yet she hesitated
                    for a minute before carrying her plan into execution, and in the mirror he
                    contrived to watch her, without attracting her observation. He saw her timid
                    approach, he marked the pause she made, and
                    how she lightly pressed her small white teeth upon her under lip, like one in
                    perplexity about the thing she was going to do. Presently she resolved to come
                    forward, and did so hastily; upon which, Leslie rose, and was ceremoniously
                    placing a chair for her, when she broke in.
                “No, I don’t want to sit down, I want to ask you if you will explain this Latin
                    for me.”
                He took the book a little surprised at her request, and read into English four
                    lines beginning— 
                        “Pannonis haud aliter post ictum sævior Ursa.”
                    
                “Thank you,” said Elinor, looking him in the face, “you know everything, you can
                    do everything. How pleasant to be so clever as you are.”
                Leslie returned her look, trying to comprehend what this little scene meant.
                “What book is it,” said he, “where you have found this passage?” and he turned to
                    the title page of the little volume. Elinor
                    did not know; she held out her hand for it.
                “It is,” said she, “it is ......” and she tried to catch the title at the top of
                    the page, Leslie saw in a moment that she knew nothing about it.
                “Have you read it through, as far as this?” said he.
                “Not quite,” said Elinor.
                “It is a volume of Montaigne’s Essays,” said Leslie. 
                        “
                         
                    What would the Reverend Mother say, if she knew you had such a book in
                    your hands?”
                “Would she be angry?” said Elinor, in sincerest alarm.
                “Nay, does not it strike you as you read, especially now this twentieth Essay,”
                    (he knew perfectly well she had not read a word of it)—“that she would hardly
                    have thought it a fit study for her pupil?”
                “Would not she indeed,” said Elinor, “Oh! indeed I did but just look at it a very
                    little.”
                “If you had looked a very little more,” said Leslie, “I should not have had the
                        pleasure of being your interpreter, for
                    here is the Latin done into French at the bottom of the page.”
                “Is there?” said Elinor, more embarrassed, “I did not think—that is I thought
                    ......”
                “You thought,” said Leslie, his whole manner changing to tenderness, “that I was
                    vexed, and you came to raise my self?esteem.”
                “No, no, not vexed,” she murmured.
                “Yes, indeed; do not deny it. I see it, like a glimpse of Paradise. How gentle,
                    how womanly—all I could have aspired to, would have been forgiveness, for I have
                    done very ill, but you no sooner fancy me humbled, than your generosity comes to
                    put me higher than I was before.”
                “Indeed,” said Elinor, “I wanted to know the meaning.”
                “Indeed no,” said Leslie; “you had something better in view. You acted from the
                    impulses of your noble heart. How inferior I am—despicable. If I might ever reach to your height—nay, do hear me,
                    Elinor—I begin to know myself.”
                “I know you are good and clever,” said Elinor.
                “Good? alas! but I may become so. All good is possible in contact with such
                    lovely goodness. Elinor! I cannot tell whether there is any feeling in your
                    heart for me, beyond that which you would have for your father confessor; but in
                    mine, there is a perfect love for you, which I did not know I was capable of.
                    Love me! love me! Oh! Elinor, say you can love me enough to be my wife.”
                Elinor stood speechless, puzzled by his change of manner, uncertain whether he
                    was displeased at first, amazed at his earnest expressions, and perfectly
                    bewildered by the prayer to which it all led.
                “How can I tell,” she said, at last, and Leslie’s 
                        earnestness
                        earnestnesss
                     increased with his uncertainty.
                “Is there no answer for me but that,” he said; “what does it mean, Elinor, am I
                    such a stranger to all your thoughts, am I so
                    indifferent to you, that you cannot tell whether you think kindly of me?”.
                “Oh yes! I can tell that,” said Elinor, “you know you are my only friend.”
                “And is not your only friend fit to ask you for his only friend, the
                    nearest, dearest friend—his wife?”
                “That only Mr. Chanson can tell,” said Elinor.
                “Oh! your guardian? yes, I understand you now; but it is your answer, not his,
                    that I want; Elinor, I am not asking your guardian to be my wife.”
                Elinor smiled, and her bright, shy eyes were kindled almost to laughter, but she
                    answered with a grave voice. “It is only he, who can determine for me about such
                    things.”
                “So they say in your convent,” said Leslie, “but consider how many things were
                    told you there, which differ from what you have learned in the world. Think,
                    most precious Elinor, is it he who can tell, or you, whether you would be
                    pleased at dwelling always where I dwell, at being as certain that my heart is full of you, as that you
                    say your daily prayers, at making my life, (and yours with mine) good and happy;
                    at knowing all I know, no secret ever between us, and if we have any trouble,
                    having it together, and knowing exactly the measure and weight of each other’s
                    pain as well as pleasure?”
                Elinor was silent, but she was listening to every word; her eyes had fallen from
                    his, but her hand rested in the grasp of his two hands.
                “Can any tell all this, except yourself? Can you not tell it now? answer me, only
                    answer may I love you.”
                “I thought I had made you angry,” said Elinor.
                “Oh! never think that again—be my wife, and such thoughts could never come—there
                    would be but one thought between us, neither you could doubt me, nor I you;
                    would not there be a pleasure in that?”
                “Yes,” said Elinor, thinking, “he will never suspect me again,” while through
                    Leslie’s mind it glanced—
                
                “She played me false about that rendezvous with Bicester, but never mind, I won’t
                    tempt her to tell me stories.” Aloud he said, “Then tell me your own self you
                    are mine. Say there is so much happiness for me in this world, land for you too,
                    happiness—is it not—will it not be?” and now his hand unforbidden got round her
                    waist. Elinor began to understand him.
                “Yes—it is more happiness than I ever thought of,” she said; “but Mr. Chanson
                    must say if I may.”
                “No, no; not yet, at least, you have nothing to ask from him; it will be enough
                    that he should be told by and by. This is our own concern, that the world’s. Why
                    should they meddle, and whisper, and smile; to us it is serious, it is sacred?
                    Why should every fool know our precious secret?”
                Elinor was glad to be allowed silence, she would have felt it a painful task, to
                    say anything so interesting to Mr. Chanson, to whom she never talked; or to
                    Laura, of whom she was afraid; and she went out of that room full of a consciousness of the great thing
                    that had happened, yet apparently as much the same quiet Elinor, as it was
                    possible to be.
                Leslie was equally self?controlled, he wished beyond measure to keep his secret,
                    and therefore succeeded; there was no covert thought prompting either of them to
                    let it be discovered, and therefore there was a perfect simplicity and good
                    faith in their manner of doing it.
                The days following were a time of incredible happiness to Leslie. He had been
                    vanquished by generous and good feelings suddenly getting the mastery over him,
                    and he was lifted above the base purposes which he had entertained towards
                    Elinor. He enjoyed his own better feelings, the nobler part of his nature took
                    the place of the baser, and had an artistic attraction for him; he felt himself
                    freer for great things than before, he had the pleasure of loving what was not
                    himself, yet his own; and although he was unable to conceive the guileless
                    purity of the young girl, he was more and more
                    captivated by the degree of it, which he could not help discerning, as he became
                    more intimate with her thoughts and ways. Elinor was awakening to the hopes and
                    happiness of life; the Being under whose influence these prospects unfolded
                    themselves, became her one interest, and identified himself with all her
                    feelings. She opened her heart to his love, and mused upon his home, his
                    society, their position together as dwellers under one roof, mused with the
                    innocence of a child which hears many things, but has no interpreter within, by
                    which to understand them. She would have been contented with this state of
                    things for an indefinite length of time, but Leslie began to entertain some
                    remorse as to the part he was playing by Laura.
                “She must be told,” he said to himself. “It is due to her generous behaviour
                    towards me, and my position as guest of her house. I will tell her, if nobody
                    else.”
                Accordingly, one morning, when he knew her to be alone in her sitting?room, he
                        bade Elinor make some pretence for going
                    to her there, and when she had been in the room for a few minutes, he also
                    knocked at the door, and on hearing permission, went in. Laura rose hastily,
                    with a look of sudden wonder, and of some other emotion which prompted her to
                    get rid of Elinor by all means.
                “Have you found what you want, dear child,” she said; “there, yes, that’s it, is
                    not it? ......” but Leslie interrupted her.
                “Nay,” he said, “it was I who told—begged, that is, her to be here. We want your
                    concurrence.” He observed, though without fixing his eyes on Laura’s face that
                    there was a kind of horror in it, such as comes when an object of phantom?like
                    dread rises before one, and the mind refuses to believe it. He immediately
                    finished his sentence. “This lady,” Leslie indicated Elinor, “consents to be my
                    wife. I owe it to you that you should be the first informed.”
                The blood forsook Laura’s lips; her heart it was plain had stopped, so far as
                        a heart can stop which is to go again. The
                    nerves relaxed, so that the strong will could hardly make instruments of them;
                    but she did force them to act. She smiled as some one among us may have seen a
                    dying man attempt to smile when the power over his muscles was half departed;
                    she looked on both with eyes where were no tears, the conventionalities of
                    society held them back. Leslie went on speaking, without appearing to observe
                    her.
                “And now we shall look to your kind offices for counsel and assistance in our
                    project, and for making known to the world in general what we thought it right
                    to bring first to the best friend of both.”
                “Not yet,” said Laura, speaking with a steadily, uniform voice; “my brother has
                    so little thought of such a thing, that he would, perhaps, throw obstacles in
                    the way.”
                “Obstacles!” said Leslie, carelessly.
                “No, not that, but he might be angry with her I mean; it would so disturb
                    him.”
                
                “Believe me,” said Leslie; “we are both willing to leave it to you to make the
                    discovery when you like. Neither of us shall interfere on that subject, if one
                    way or another seems better to you.”
                “It is merely your advantage I think of,” said Laura.
                “Of that I am QUITE sure,” said Leslie: in order to convey
                    some pleasant impression to Laura’s mind.
                “And now,” he said, “I’ll leave my little betrothed with you to get some woman’s
                    talk about fringe and so on. She wants a friend on all matters as you well know,
                    and I humbly beg for one than whom she could not anywhere find a better.” Leslie
                    drew back, courteously applying his compliment by a slight indication of his
                    head, and quitted the room, after an encouraging glance at Elinor.
                When he was gone, the agitation of the scene acted upon Elinor, and she could not
                    restrain her tears, while she tried to possess herself of Laura’s hand, but
                    Laura’s efforts were exhausted; she drew away her hand  as if it had come in contact with a fester, or a nest
                    of snakes, and forcing open the door to her bed?room flung it behind her, and
                    fell on the floor by her bed, totally giddy and beside herself for a brief time.
                    In some people, their first thought under a sudden shock is, that the thing is
                    not; or that it will cease to be. In the worst of her anguish this latter idea
                    spread a gloomy light through the thick darkness, otherwise no strength of hers
                    could have supported it. It was that which by degrees gave consistency to her
                    thoughts, and upon which her mind as tenaciously laid hold, as the falling man,
                    on the bush which grows over the edge of the precipice. She collected her senses
                    and forced her mind into action, not with any view ever entertained for a moment
                    of making the best for herself and others of what had taken place, but with the
                    desperate purpose of destroying it at no matter what sacrifice.
                The first thing was to gain time, and this her instinct had already prompted her
                    to do, when she besought Leslie to keep the
                    secret for awhile. What was to follow she ran over in her head, and sate in her
                    tranquil room, among all, the pretty luxuries of toilette and draperied mirror,
                    of flaçons and flowers, leaning her rounded
                    cheek on her hand, while the natural folds of rich silk fell around her figure,
                    and all this time was brooding the project which should immolate the innocent
                    girl, and the beloved man to the idol enshrined in her own person.
                To this end she laid her plan, and with farsighted anticipation she soon after
                    sought her brother, and engaged him by gentle degrees in a conversation on his
                    political interest, which had always a certain charm for him. There was some
                    property at a little distance lately acquired by him, where the votes of the
                    tenants were less their landlord’s than those which had longer felt his subject
                    of discourse, and suggested the propriety of “at some future time, any leisure
                    day,” cultivating their acquaintance and gaining a hold on their opinions.
                
                Her brother assented, but complained of the tediousness of the operation. Laura
                    hinted that he should lighten the disgust by taking a companion; some one, she
                    said, who would do credit to the cause, and whom he might recommend to them
                    whenever there was occasion.
                “Why not speak out,” said Mr. Chanson; “there is one I should be glad enough to
                    recommend, if you can tell me you wish it.”
                “Nay, you know all I know about him,” said Laura.
                “All?”
                “Yes, and far more than any other human being ever can know.”
                “Then I wish it were more, for my dear little Laura is not the woman to be
                    trifled with.”
                “No, no, don’t say such a word. I understand him, and so he does me. Only be best
                    friends with him, and give him an interest among us.”
                “I will do anything for you, sister,” said he; “you are as clever as you are
                        hand? some, and deserve the very best man
                    wit and money can gain. I shall be sorry to part with you, that is all. But if
                    you gain by it, I won’t think of myself.”
                “Thank you, Lawrence,” said Miss Chanson, and the kindness breathed over her
                    heart like dew upon some burning, arid plain. The tears came to her eyes, and
                    she hid them on his shoulder.
                “You are happy, Laura?” said he, inquiringly; “you are satisfied?”
                “Yes,” said Laura; “oh, yes, I am.” It was very hard to form those words, but she
                    succeeded.
                She had provided in this manœuvre for securing the absence of Leslie whenever her
                    plans should require such a movement to work out the present details. She had
                    only her cousin Peter to help her, and in the late circumstances of apparent
                    estrangement between Leslie and Elinor, he had been laid aside as not wanted.
                    Now, however, he was her chief hope; and the day of his departure drawing very
                    near, what he had to do must be done without delay.
                
                “Peter,” she said, “we are all going to walk after luncheon. Now that little
                    flirt will enjoy a tête?à?tête with you. I
                    really think she begins to get an appetite for it.”
                “Do you think so,” said her cousin; “well she shows it in an odd way. How
                    uncommonly silent she is, except to Leslie.”
                “Oh! she torments him to death,” said Laura, “he was saying to me this morning
                    that he wished—wished—that is ......”
                “What, Laura?”
                “He came, Peter, to my room to speak to me; and she was there, and would not go
                    away.”
                “My dear Laura!”
                “No, no, nonsense; I don’t know what he had to say, but with her in the room, and
                    so determined to stay ......”
                “Yes, yes; but during the walk this afternoon there may be a better opportunity.
                    Well, cousin Laura, you know it will break my heart, but I devote myself, I
                    cover my head with a white mantle, and stretch out my hands to the infernal
                    gods.”
                
                “What nonsense you talk, dear Peter.”
                “Shall we take a gentle walk in the woods?” said Laura, to the party after
                    luncheon, “the autumn colours are growing beautiful, and the day is neither too
                    hot nor cold.”
                Everybody agreed, and they assembled gradually under the portico, as they were
                    ready, previous to the start. Leslie had gently driven Laura into a corner, and
                    in the fulness of contentment with himself and others, was asking questions
                    sufficiently embarrassing.
                “Have you taught her, Miss Chanson, how to cut out cloaks and gowns; and what to
                    do with a housekeeper?”
                Laura commanded her voice, and made some trifling answer.
                “You know it is to you only I can talk on the subject,” Leslie went on; “in the
                    first place, I have no mind to let everybody into my affairs, and in the next,
                    you bid me be silent for the present.”
                “Oh yes! be silent,” said Laura, “I have more
                    reasons than one for that request. Pray say nothing yet.”
                “That you command me is sufficient reason,” said Leslie, who felt that he owed
                    her some reparation.
                “You yourself, perhaps, may find reason to thank me,” said Laura.
                “Nay, I thank you already. The one point being gained, of security in the regard
                    of that little lady, I am grateful for every evidence of interest in either her,
                    or me.”
                “How happy you are in a confiding, honest nature,” said Laura.
                “People always despise those whom they call confiding” said Leslie, “and those
                    despised persons always presume on their own particular clear?sightedness, and
                    say others may be taken in, but as for them it is impossible.”
                “Heaven forbid, that it should happen to you!” said Laura, then hastily went on.
                    “You talk so loftily about despising, and being despised, like one who knows there is no such word for him; but come, the
                    party is all assembled now I think.”
                She moved a step forward, and so did Leslie, and saw that Elinor was standing
                    just within the door, and that the officious Sir Peter had offered her his arm
                    for the walk. Laura eagerly watching also, perceived that Elinor lifted her eyes
                    to Leslie, and that a slight glance of intelligence passed between them, after
                    which Elinor demurely took the offered arm, and proceeded with Sir Peter. That
                    look wrenched the dagger round in Laura’s heart; it was the thing which her
                    imagination had represented as most intolerable, the familiar token which both
                    understood, and from which all others were shut out; her insidious words had
                    fallen useless, and now, friendly as Leslie might be, faithfully as he kept by
                    her side, he did but confirm her anguish by a behaviour which was so friendly,
                    merely because he had made her the confidant of his successful love for another.
                    She could not play out her part to the end to?day. She was obliged to complain of a headache before the walk was over, and
                    sank into silence, which this excuse justified, and which with her throbbing
                    head and dry lips, it was impossible for her to avoid. When they reached home
                    again, she went straight to her room, and appeared no more, accepting Elinor’s
                    timid offers of service, in order to keep her away from the society of
                    Leslie.
                For a time she preserved the impenetrable silence which her feelings dictated and
                    which Elinor, frightened at the repulses she met, shrank into herself to
                    observe; but at last, as she slowly won self?command, she resolved to employ the
                    time in preparing the ground for the scheme before her, and however odious to
                    herself to enter into conversation with the happy young girl.
                “How was this all arranged, dear?” she began, in an invalid tone, “tell me about
                    it.”
                Elinor was as little inclined as she to pour out confidences, but she hesitated
                    not to answer.
                
                “I was afraid he was angry,” she began ......
                “Well,” said Laura, impatiently.
                “I was afraid he was unhappy,” said Elinor.
                “What do you mean?” again said Laura, hastily.
                “He seemed angry.”
                “Oh! nonsense—what stuff—what made him angry?”
                “Your cousin ......” Elinor began, but was glad to be interrupted by her
                    imperious sympathizer.
                “By the by, I wanted to speak about Peter; he is a very young man, and you must
                    not make mischief. You have been talking a great deal with him, you know
                        that surely; and flirting, the world would say, and now that
                    another man is going to marry you, that man may take fancies against Peter; you
                    must say nothing against Peter, that’s the only reparation you can make.”
                “I have never ...... ”
                “Yes, you have—never mind that. Have you talked
                    to Mr. Leslie about that time when you stayed at home on account of a bad
                    headache you had, and then walked to the stone quarry?”
                “Had I a bad headache?”
                “Yes, of course, you can’t forget that.”
                “I don’t think ......”
                “Yes, very bad, you did not drive with me to the glen on account of it.”
                Elinor was silent.
                “Have you talked to him about it? I say.”
                “No.”
                “Oh! that’s very well, then do not. I know that you and Peter went together.”
                “No ...... he ......”
                “Well, came back together, from the stone quarry, and if you were to make a long
                    story about it to Mr. Leslie, there is no knowing what might happen. It was
                    foolish, perhaps thoughtless that is, in my dear cousin, but merely that,
                    scarcely that; and Mr. Leslie is so proud, he might take the greatest offence,
                    he might shoot him dead, my poor cousin.”
                
                “Might he really?” said Elinor.
                “So promise me one thing, never to say one word about that walk—now promise.”
                “I never will, if I can help it.”
                “Oh! you can help it of course. Promise.”
                “I promise, as far as I can,” said Elinor.
                “Can! ridiculous! however, that will do, and now pray let me be quiet. I really
                    cannot talk any more, my poor head in such a state.”
                And now putting her hand to her head, she leaned it down against the back of her
                    easy chair, and there in anything but ease, she acted the motionless invalid, in
                    which character she could escape further conversation, yet retain the young girl
                    as nurse, and watch in her room. This lasted till bed time, and a severe trial
                    it was.
                When at last she had dismissed Elinor, with severe directions to go at once to
                    her chamber, and had got rid of the importunate services of her maid, she was at
                    liberty to start up, and walking through her
                    room, to give vent to the bodily expressions of the tempest in her mind. The one
                    fixed purpose was that the marriage of Elinor and Leslie should be prevented.
                    She had ceased to justify that purpose to herself, and had reached the point
                    when the right or wrong was cast aside, and the end only, kept resolutely in
                    view. When all the house was quiet, when her brother had come, and tenderly
                    stroked her hair, asking how his little Laura did now; when he was gone,
                    carefully closing the door without noise behind him, Laura unlocked her desk,
                    pressed the spring of the secret drawer within, and took out a slip of written
                    paper, poor Elinor’s note to Leslie, which had fallen on the ground the night of
                    their interview in the wood. And there in the early hours, between night and
                    morning, when she ought to have been stretched in maiden slumber on her bed,
                    when she ought to have been profiting by the safety and the indulgence of her
                    prosperous position, Laura sat cold and weary, yet absorbed from such feelings,
                        patiently effacing by the smallest
                    advances one letter after another from the harmless billet, in order to replace
                    them by others which should carry condemnation to the guiltless writer. Her
                    brother’s name was the word she rubbed out; and then with a pen, prepared with
                    the most delicate touches of the knife, and tried twenty times before it suited
                    her, Leslie’s was the one she put in. Now it stood—
                “I cannot come to?night. Mr. Leslie forbids me to go out.—ELINOR LADYLIFT.”
                This note thus altered, she purposed to convey to Sir Peter as coming from
                    Elinor, and from him it should pass either by Sir Peter, or by Laura herself to
                    Leslie, whom she trusted it would persuade of Elinor’s falsity, and by so doing
                    wrench two hearts asunder. There were chances of an explanation between them,
                    and that Laura saw with fearful distinctness; should it take place,
                    her plot was ruined, and she herself with it—where should she be then?
                “Hated, despised!” she cried to herself; “for ever parted from him. But so I
                        am now. Can it be worse than to see
                        her in my place. Oh! nothing is worse. Death were most dear in
                    comparison ......” and as she said so, tears of self?compassion broke from her
                    eyes, and she laid her head on her arms and wept. Presently she rose from this
                    position, and letting her dressing?gown fall from her shoulders, put one knee on
                    her luxurious bed, and laid herself down beneath the fine woollen, fine linen of
                    the bed clothes.
                “Alas!” she said to herself, “if the felicity which I labour through all
                    obstacles to attain were mine by the gracious course of fortune and fate, how
                    good I could be, how kind to others, how grateful myself!”
            
            
            
                CHAPTER VIII.
                THE next morning, after breakfast, Leslie contrived to say to Elinor,
                    that he had been unjustly deprived of her society the previous evening, and that
                    she must come out and walk with him.
                “Miss Chanson can say nothing against it,” he added; “for you need only answer
                    her that you are going with your affianced husband, and her brother won’t think
                    of us one way or the other.”
                “Besides,” said Elinor, “he will be at the stable for the next half hour, and
                    Miss Chanson will have the housekeeper almost directly. I can come down the
                    turret stair and out by the great Datura.”
                “We are doing all we can to spoil the most guileless nature in the world,”
                        said Leslie to himself; “when she came
                    here, such a woman’s calculation as that was out of the reach of her
                    imagination. Well, well, she is a creature of whom I am most unworthy, be she
                    spoiled a little or not.”
                In about a quarter of an hour Elinor did as she had proposed and joined him in
                    the garden, and then seizing her hand he led her into the park and out thence to
                    the fields, and soon they were quite away from all frequented track. It was an
                    autumn day, the heavy mists were golden with the sun which was vigorously
                    dispelling them from the valleys and brook courses, and lifting them up all
                    gorgeously from the glowing earth. The red berries of the wild convolvulus hung
                    in long festoons upon the hedges, and its yellow leaves shone like pale gold in
                    the sun. The wild cherry trees were glowing with bright red, the birch all
                    amber; the ferns dressed the hill sides with their rich shapes and colours, and
                    the hills drew nearer than usual, with every white house and spire distinct on
                    their intense blue. A fragrance of vegetation
                    came and went on the breeze; perhaps it was the breath of dying Nature, but it
                    pleased the lungs with its exciting draught.
                “I feel my heart beating” said Elinor; “at seeing everything so beautiful. Why
                    does it beat?”
                “Because everything is so beautiful,” said Leslie, smiling.
                “And you told me I might enjoy the pleasure,” said Elinor.
                “Yes, it is fitted to give enjoyment. It is innocent; you feel no regret
                    afterwards.”
                “No, I don’t,” said Elinor; “but I should have done so in my convent, because I
                    was taught to fear the things I liked. It was you who taught me
                    differently.”
                “Yes; but at all events do whatever you think is right,” said Leslie. “I only
                    meant to say that whatever is good and pleasant you may do.”
                “I think” said Elinor, “that walking through this autumn country, and my hand
                    held by yours is both.”
                “Both, both,” said Leslie; “and it will soon be our right for ever. We shall
                        be never parted, Elinor; never, not at
                    all, together always, and it will be right to be so; do you understand?”
                “Yes,” said Elinor, her calm, maidenly face looking straight forward; “there will
                    be no stranger to interrupt our talk, no necessity to ask anybody’s leave to
                    walk with you. I may sit in the room where you write, and work without talking;
                    when you like, I may sing what you only like; if you are tired you can sleep
                    without caring whether I am there or not, and I shall be there
                    watching that neither the sun nor the flies disturb you. I have been thinking of
                    all those things.”
                Leslie was silent. It was a new, strange pleasure to hear the meditations of that
                    innocent heart. He believed at that hour what so very few men have the enjoyment
                    of believing, the purity and guilelessness there can be, and is, in many young
                    girls. His pleasure was like that of a man who gets sight of an unsunned
                    treasure, which the earthly air and light he lets in will soon crumble away; but
                    which is there and has
                    been there in perfection, for all the time before he discovered it.
                    The loveliness of the day, the accidents of the scene gave scope to the easy
                    happiness they were enjoying. It grew hot, and Elinor untied her bonnet in the
                    shade, and Leslie took it from her to carry, maltreating the ribbons as he
                    talked and walked, and then laughing with Elinor at his male ignorance of their
                    nature and wants. They came to a steep slope, and beginning to move quicker and
                    quicker down it, ended by running at the top of Elinor’s speed, so that
                    laughing, and the blood mounting in her cool cheek, she came to the bottom
                    holding tight by Leslie’s arm, while he kept her safely on her feet, and laughed
                    with her at nothing but their own spirits, and their own active frames.
                There, as they coasted along a high bank with an irregular hedge on the crest,
                    Elinor’s eye was caught by something hounding about in the fern, and in a moment
                    they saw it was a leveret which seemed at play so near them. Elinor paused to look, but Leslie saw how it was, and said
                    it was caught in a noose, and the string was tightening round its neck.
                “Oh! how cruel, how wicked!” said Elinor; “who could! loose it do, pray.” Leslie,
                    to obey Elinor, went up the bank and tried to lay hold of the leveret, which,
                    half dead as it was, still sprang about to avoid him.
                “It will die,” cried Elinor, the tears almost running over; “oh! do catch it,”
                    and she also scrambled up, and helped Leslie to try to lay hold of it. At last
                    they succeeded. Then Leslie, with one hand upon the suffocated little beast,
                    searched his waistcoat pocket for a knife, and gave it to Elinor to open, and to
                    insinuate it between the leveret’s neck and the string in order to set it free.
                    He watched her earnest face, all given over to pity and interest; her fear to
                    give pain, her resolution to venture it, her disgust at suffering inflicted; and
                    she, thinking of nothing but the leveret, most delicately, most skilfully got in
                    the knife, and drawing the sharp edge across the string released it. The poor
                        leveret, under the sudden revulsion of
                    blood to its natural course, lost all active power, and lay motionless.
                “Poor brute, it’s all over,” said Leslie, putting it on the grass; but Elinor was
                    not so indifferent. She raised its head upon a little tussock, stroked it
                    gently, pitied it, while her lover stood by smiling at the pretty picture; and
                    at last the leveret began to move, and Elinor was relieved and delighted.
                “Oh! I’ll carry it home,” she said, breaking off a great burdock leaf, and
                    placing the little body upon it; then carefully set it on her arms, and Leslie
                    held her by the elbow, to get her safely down the bank. “I’ll get what they call
                    a whisket for it,” said Elinor, pleased like a fresh child with the imaginary
                    details of the leveret’s life; “and keep it in my room, and give it leaves. What
                    does it like best?”
                “Flowers, I think,” said Leslie; “any fresh, tender annuals out of the garden. It
                    will eat up the verbenas with the greatest pleasure.”
                
                “Do you think you can get some?” said Elinor.
                “Oh yes, every morning; but I must take care Miss Chanson does not see me.”
                “Oh! you must not hurt her garden.”
                “Well, well; we will take the hare away with us, when you and I go away
                    ourselves, and it shall have all the flowers at the Tower to itself, if
                        you like.”
                Elinor looked at Leslie, and smiled. “Yes, thank you; it shall live on the
                    eastern terrace you told me of, and have a wooden house of some kind to go into
                    at night.”
                “That will be the very place,” said Leslie.
                At this moment the leveret, which had recovered its senses, but kept the recovery
                    to itself watching its opportunity, made so sudden a spring, that before Elinor
                    could utter the little cry its movement provoked, it was out of her arms, and
                    scudding away to the copse.
                “Oh dear!” said Elinor, looking at her empty leaf.
                
                Leslie laughed.
                “Never mind, I can have your hand again; so all is for the best,” said he.
                And thus they walked, by the hedgerow sides of the corn fields, across banky
                    meadows cropped by sheep, along woodland paths, which descended to the brook
                    courses; where they were crossed by gray large stepping?stones; within the edges
                    of the wood, where with trees for a natural colonnade, they looked out upon the
                    silent, sunny country; hand in hand they walked, healthy, beautiful, good. It
                    was Adam and Eve moving through the Garden of Eden.
                They had scarcely met a human being, the country was thinly inhabited, and they
                    had unconsciously sought the least frequented parts; but some hours after they
                    first began their walk, the forest silence was disturbed by a distant voice,
                    uttering a loud “mark!” and then was fired a gun as distant, and before long
                    both sounds came nearer; nay, they presently saw a towering pheasant hit by the discharge from the loud gun, and
                    tumbling over and over in the air, fall with hanging wings, and dropped head,
                    out of sight in the underwood.
                The next moment, Sir Peter Bicester, and a gamekeeper, and couple of beaters came
                    in view; he immediately left off his pursuit, and came up to Elinor, hoping he
                    had not frightened her, and so on. Leslie had dropped Elinor’s hand; till she
                    was declared his promised wife, he did not wish to claim any intimacy with her;
                    but Elinor was unconscious of such scruples, and replied in the simplest way to
                    the young man’s apologies.
                “But we are going home now,” she said, “so do not stop your amusement for me.
                    Thank you for thinking of it.” And she moved on.
                “Shan’t you come out, Leslie?” said Sir Peter.
                “No, not I; if there’s anything better to do, I don’t care for a gun.”
                
                “And there is something it seems,” said Sir Peter.
                “Well! that is as it may be,” answered Leslie, and followed Elinor, whom he
                    speedily overtook.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER IX.
                THAT evening, Sir Peter knocked at the door of his cousin’s
                    sitting?room, when he came in an hour before dinner.
                “Have you got some tea, Laura?” he asked; “let me have a cup with you, if you are
                    going to have any.”
                “Come in, come in!” said Laura, ringing the bell at the same time, and ordering
                    tea for him and her. 
                        “
                         
                    Well, what have you shot?”
                “Six pheasants, and a woodcock,” said Sir Peter; “I just went into that outside
                    cover, you know, below the lime kiln.”
                “And quite enough,” said Laura, “for a distant part, scarcely preserved.”
                “Yes, it is a good way off,” said Sir Peter;
                    “and do you know, Leslie had taken your ward walking all that way.”
                “He had?”
                “Yes, and they looked as like real lovers as ever you saw any two people. Now,
                    Laura, I want you to answer me one question; are you quite certain there is
                    nothing between them, quite certain? Because if there is, I would not put myself
                    in their way for the generalship of the Indian army—no, not to be made knight
                    banneret on the field of battle.”
                “Have not I told you,” said Laura, “how matters stand.”
                “Yes; but he may be a fool, and he may have taken up with the little idiot; and
                    if the flirting is not on her side, I will have nothing to do with making her
                    break her little heart.”
                “It is all, all on her side; but for her intrigues I should be happy—and I can be
                    happy—I am; what is that man to me?”
                “Nothing, Laura; that’s right, don’t throw away a thought upon him, if he has
                    been such an ass.”
                
                “But he has not!” said Laura, struggling mentally against the doom, as one does
                    bodily against the great weight that is pressing the lungs together, so as to
                    stop breath. “It is merely that a child is artful enough to deceive him, is
                    thoughtless enough to hazard her own character, and ruins my peace.”
                “Nay, if it is so ......”
                “I tell you it is.”
                “Swear!” said Sir Peter, crossing the forefingers of his two hands, playfully,
                    yet in his heart looking seriously to such an appeal as safe to procure him the
                    truth. Laura did not think nor hesitate for a moment. She laid her hand on his
                    crossed fingers—
                “ I swear!” she said. She hated her cousin for making her do this, but she had no
                    doubt, nevertheless, about doing it.
                “Very well, then, I will serve you loyally and zealously to the extent of my
                    power, and that extent is limited, for I must go on Thursday.”
                “Yes, yes, go on Thursday,” said Laura, “and
                    before that time, let Leslie merely see whether or not her pretended passion for
                    him is true, only let her show herself in her true colours, that is all I
                    ask.”
                “As how?”
                “Well, if she appoints you to meet her? If she tampers with you, as she does with
                    Leslie?”
                “Oh! in that case.”
                “You will let him know it?”
                “No, I shall not tell him—that’s quite impossible.”
                “He can find it out then,” said Laura.
                “It would be better for him if he did; would lose a trifle and gain a treasure.
                    Oh! Laura, I wish I were but older, wiser, or of more value in the world, I
                    would fling myself at your feet, though Crœsus and Lycurgus were in the
                    way.”
                “And I would not have you,” said Laura, peevishly, then correcting herself, she
                    added, “what a hoary pair to offer to a young lady; you would have
                    a much better chance my Pet.”
                Sir Peter went on talking nonsense, which he
                    much preferred to plotting against Elinor, for of that employment he was getting
                    rather tired, and Laura was afraid to weary him entirely of the subject, for
                    upon his co?operation all her remaining hopes depended. She therefore treated
                    the subject as lightly as she could, only insisting on some display of despair
                    on his part at his approaching separation from Elinor, and contriving to amuse
                    him with details, each of which she hoped would be a blow against the security
                    in which she saw that Leslie was fortified.
                She herself conducted the assault this evening. Leslie gave her occasion; he told
                    her that he must very soon announce to her brother the engagement into which his
                    ward had entered; and Laura, now thoroughly on her guard assented, proposing
                    that the end of the week should be the time chosen. Leslie agreed, and Laura had
                    gained one point, for did not the Thursday of Sir Peter’s departure come
                    between?
                
                “I shall be glad when he is gone for your sake,” said Laura to Leslie.
                “Why so?”
                “Nay, I think you deserve all the walks and talks and little appointments to
                    yourself.”
                “Oh, I am not uneasy about that,” said Leslie; “such fancies trouble me not. As
                    King Pericles says, ‘Falseness cannot dwell in thee!’”
                “Falseness in me?” said Laura, startled.
                “In her, I ought to have said, but I was too conscientious to misquote
                    Shakespeare. Oh! no, that trouble is quite over.”
                “Then why did she and my cousin find themselves at the stone quarry that day she
                    had the sudden headache, and could not drive with us?”
                “I’m sure I don’t know,” said Leslie; “the best way would be to ask her.”
                “Do, if you think the truth so easy to be had.”
                “Only I don’t care to know,” said Leslie.
                “Oh! very well. I am sure I don’t,” said Laura.
                
                She turned away, and proposed music to one of the party, but her eyes did not
                    fail to observe that Leslie took advantage of the opportunity to stand talking
                    with Elinor at the open window, and she persuaded herself was asking the
                    explanation she intended him to seek. There was some little pre?occupation in
                    his way of carrying on the beginning of the conversation, a shade of
                    embarrassment, and a questioning air. Elinor coloured deeply, and hesitated to
                    answer him, and Laura believed that the headache which she herself had ordered
                    Elinor to remember, and the silence which she herself had ordered Elinor to keep
                    about the stone quarry walk, were throwing the appearance of double?dealing over
                    the entangled girl. Leslie’s fond look at last she could not so well interpret.
                    She did not think he was satisfied with respect to the walk, yet “perhaps”
                    (thought she), “he believes a woman cannot speak the truth, and forgives
                    her—forgives her; yes, but he would not forgive me.”
                
                Laura was not much out in her interpretation of Leslie’s looks; in fact, he was
                    disposed to believe and to excuse in Elinor, the manœuvres which he fancied the
                    inexperienced young girl had been led to practise before her present engagement
                    with him; but at all events, as things were now, he determined to put a stop to
                    all proceedings of the kind, and would fain have warned and set Elinor on her
                    guard, as her mother would have done, had she ever known her mother.
                “Nobody may interrupt me now,” he said, “in the happiness of such walks as we had
                    yesterday. Nobody has any claim on you now, when I claim you. You have given me
                    that right, remember.”
                “Mr. Chanson said I must go with him to see his greyhounds fed,” said Elinor;
                    “but I will not.”
                “Oh! Mr. Chanson. Yes, you may go with him.”
                “Miss Chanson also said I was to carry the hymn books to the school. She wants to show me how to teach them to sing. I will
                    tell her I cannot do it.”
                “No, no; you must do what she asks till you leave her altogether.”
                “But you said I was to walk with you only.”
                “I mean it is not fit for a young girl to let an idle young man like Bicester,
                    meet and follow her.”
                “So my Reverend Mother told me, and I did not, till you laughed, and made me
                    laugh too, about it.”
                “Well, well, yes; but a man says things he does not mean; you should be aware
                    that he does not even remember many things he says, and if a girl
                    does, and believes it is all true, she gets into a very awkward position.”
                “You are a young man,” said Elinor, smiling; “am I to believe
                    you?”
                “Oh! it is quite a different thing with me. What I say now, does not apply to me.
                    Only I don’t want you. to let that puppy talk to you. He can, only mean mischief, and you had better be on your
                    guard.”
                “So the Reverend Mother said,” repeated Elinor; “and I will obey her and
                    you.”
                “Next Thursday he goes away,” said Leslie; “and do you know, dearest and gentlest
                    Elinor, that I am going too? Chanson has got a project in his head about
                    visiting some property he bought not long ago; and he says his sister thinks it
                    will be a good opportunity to do so when young Bicester leaves the house, and
                    before fresh guests come in. He wants me so very much to be his companion, that
                    I have consented. We shall not be away above a few days, and during those days I
                    will tell him that his ward is his ward no longer, but that it is I who have to
                    answer for her in future.”
                “Do,” said Elinor.
                Leslie looked at her, and half laughed. “You will not tell him the contrary?”
                    said he.
                “Oh! no, no,” said Elinor; “no more, surely, will he? I am sorry though that I
                    did not ask him first if I might, for the
                    Reverend Mother told me it was my guardian who must settle
                    that.”
                “And I told you not; very true. But you do not think I told you to
                    do anything wrong?”
                “I hope not,” said Elinor, “for I have no right or wrong in my head now, except
                    what I learn from you.”
                “Ay! trust me, then ...... Oh! I could not mislead you.”
                “No, I am sure of that,” said Elinor, lifting her eyes to his. He thought of the
                    morning at breakfast, when he could not get one glimpse of those shy eyes; and
                    he thought also of the many things between that moment and the one in which her
                    innocence had converted all his thoughts into pure projects like itself. In his
                    heart he worshipped the creature who held so strong, yet so silken a dominion
                    over him, and in his enjoyment of the prospect now before him, he instinctively
                    tried to forget the cruel one which he had entertained and abandoned.
                Laura had no time to spare, or she would have
                    let things work more gently than she could now afford. This was Saturday
                    evening; and the evening of Sunday she destined to commence a plot which must
                    explode before Thursday, or all her schemes would be at fault. The course of
                    Sunday contented her well enough. The usual duties of the day went forward, and
                    however mechanically to Laura, there was no outward dereliction. She would have
                    had a vague uneasiness at absenting herself from the village church, but no word
                    that she heard there struck her as forbidding—no word she uttered there, struck
                    her as renouncing—the secret purposes she meditated. Once, as a very young
                    child, instructed to lay by every secular employment on the Sabbath day, it
                    chanted that her mother, who led a usually secluded life, was invited by a very
                    great house to very great feast on a Sunday; and the mother went, not because
                    she thought and explained that there was no harm in it, but because the
                    temptation was so strong. Laura had opportunities enough to melt down the impression which this fact made on her; nor
                    did it, probably, in itself produce much effect, but her nature had that bias
                    which caused it to select and feed upon this and various similar incidents which
                    the tide of things presented to her, until at length led away by selfishness and
                    by uncontrolled passions, she had come to be, as one may say, two Lauras, the
                    one who professed in theory whatever was good, and the one whose actions
                    regarded simply what was convenient. It is a very common character.
                This Sunday, therefore, saw her in the family pew with her guests; saw her take
                    the school report from the hand of the curtseying schoolmistress, and rebuke the
                    child who was shown up for inattention. She let the horses and servants rest
                    to?day, and proposed merely a walk by way of amusement. Before she could prevent
                    him, Leslie drew Elinor away, and by the side of the waterfall and up the banks
                    of the brook, they passed the afternoon hours.
                Laura had got a present for her cousin Peter, a
                    travelling bag, fitted in the smallest compass with the most numerous articles,
                    and called him to her sitting?room to give it.
                Sir Peter was rather melancholy and sentimental. He was going to the other side
                    of the world, and was pleased to do so, and yet it touched him to feel that
                    nobody was much interested in his departure except himself; his place would
                    close over at once, and it was he only who cared or reflected that he was going.
                    Laura’s care, therefore, to procure a present for him, gave him pleasure. He
                    employed himself in examining and admiring every article, and in obtaining from
                    Laura a few words in her own hand, declaring herself the giver of the bag, and
                    the well?wishing cousin of the recipient.
                “And you will think of me once or twice, will you?” said Sir Peter; “when my
                    thoughts are travelling homewards they will now and then meet yours coming out
                    to Ceylon.”
                
                “To be sure they will; and many others will be on the same journey, anxious to
                    know what you are about.”
                “No, Laura, no. My mother, if she were alive, would have let no post go by
                    without a letter. I have a green bag stuffed with those she wrote to me at
                    school, and so would a sister, perhaps, if I ever had one, but nobody else ever
                    cares for a young man more than for one grain of wheat rather than another in a
                    sack full.”
                “Oh! indeed, I do,” said Laura, “and I am not the only one.”
                “Who else?”
                “Nay, I don’t think I shall tell you. It is such nonsense.”
                “You don’t mean the little nun?”
                “No, no; of course not.”
                “You do,” said Sir Peter, starting up, and forgetting his melancholy; “what did
                    she say?”
                “Oh! nothing—I forget—nothing worth hearing.”
                “Nay, Laura, you shall tell me, or I will ask her. Where is she?”
                
                “In her own room, I should think. You can’t go there and ask her.”
                “I thought she was walking with Leslie.”
                “Not very likely after what she said to me. If she is walking with Mr. Leslie her
                    coquetry passes all allowable bounds.”
                “Why, what did she say?”
                “Nay, you will be so vain.”
                “Not vainer than I am,” said Sir Peter, smiling gaily.
                “True; that’s hardly possible,” said Laura; “well, well, she is very demure, and
                    does not talk much you know, to me at least, but she said this morning in her
                    sudden way, as if her words broke out of her thoughts, ‘Sir. Peter smokes every
                    evening, does not he?’”
                “What an unsentimental meditation!” said Sir Peter.
                “I did not think so,” said Laura.
                “As how, is it not?”
                “When you smoke, you walk out; when you walk out you can be met.”
                “Nay, is that it? nice little girl!”
                “I don’t know that it is that, but it would be easy to make the experiment. If it is so, and she
                    likes you Peter, do take her with you to Ceylon. I use no concealment. I should
                    be glad if she were gone.”
                “Thanks, thanks, dear cousin, but I can’t be quite so convenient as that, for I
                    suppose you would have her my wife.”
                “Peter!”
                “But if she do think of morning walks with Leslie, and moonlight walks with me,
                    at least he will never marry her.”
                “Never, never, never!” said Laura.
                Dinner was not over till the evening was dark, for October was at the end of its
                    first week. The rooms were bright with lamps and candles, but the windows were
                    open to the shadowy scene without, for the weather was very hot, even as though
                    summer were abroad masquerading in the splendidly coloured robes of the aged
                    year.
                “Let us walk down the garden,” said Laura to Elinor, who was the only lady beside
                    herself of the party; “the air is oppressive, further from the house it will be
                    cooler.”
                
                They went together along the garden paths, and reached the avenue of great Scotch
                    firs which terminated it, and which at its other extremity had a wicket opening
                    into the park.
                “I wonder,” said Laura, “whether Eliza Mosterick has had the broth she wanted;
                    did you hear anything about it?”
                “No, I did not.”
                “But you knew she was ill. Did you call to inquire about her when you were out
                    this morning?”
                “No,” said Elinor.
                “You might just as well have done so, and put the Sunday to some better purpose
                    than merely amusing yourself,” said Laura; “poor woman, perhaps she has been
                    waiting vainly all day. I wish I could go as far before my brother comes into
                    the drawing?room; he does not like me to be absent.”
                Elinor was silent; whatever she might say she felt would bring down a rebuke.
                “Could you go, Elinor?” said Laura, at last.
                
                “Certainly,” said Elinor, who was accustomed at the convent to wait on the sick,
                    and to be employed about their errands. “Shall I?”
                “Well, if you will. You know the house; it is the underkeeper’s—you know, just
                    fifty yards from the end of the avenue on the right—she was very ill—unless she
                    is better—and I meant to send her some broth and things ....... Stay, take her
                    five shillings will you, in case she wants to buy anything. Here, put my scarf
                    over your head. It is as good as a bonnet.”
                Elinor did all she was bid, and Laura, when she was disappearing like a white
                    spirit down the gloomy avenue, turned hastily and ran to the house, where she
                    gave thanks (like Shylock when his enemies’ ships are lost, and he says, “Thank
                    God, I thank God!”) to see that the time for evening Sunday prayers was not more
                    than a quarter of an hour distant, at which epoch of the evening the absence of
                    any member of the party must become conspicuous. Both Leslie and Sir Peter
                    glanced round the room as soon as they came
                    in, for Elinor. Both looked at Laura to account for her absence. A faint smile,
                    and a slight elevation of her eyebrows informed the latter that Elinor would be
                    found where he expected, and Sir Peter vanished to keep the imaginary rendezvous
                    on his side. Leslie asked in a low voice, where was Elinor.
                “Is not she here?” said Laura, looking round; “I have been in the garden, but she
                    refused to come. I think she said she was going to write a letter.”
                Leslie was obliged to content himself; and taking up a book, sat watching the
                    door which, every time it opened drew his eager eyes, till the appearance of
                    some uninteresting figure caused them to be impatiently cast down again. Laura’s
                    attention went nervously to the clock, which ticked on so composedly, and would
                    not hasten towards half?past nine. Nor even when the half?hour had leisurely
                    lifted up its voice twice, to denote that it was come, did the outer bell sound
                    for prayers, till another full minute had gone by; and yet further, several seconds, which seemed like hours (as
                    they do to a man under the surgeon’s hands, or hanging on the edge of a
                    precipice while relief is coming), passed by, before the butler threw open the
                    door, and announced, after the manner of butlers, “Prayers is ready.” Laura rose
                    at once, and with a bland smile, walked alone out of the room followed by her
                    brother, by Leslie, and by the few men who were guests in the house. Nothing
                    could have answered better, for as they crossed the ante?room, which opened on
                    the garden, Elinor came hastily in, the veil on her head, and Sir Peter
                    following closely. Laura saw Leslie’s start of displeased surprise; he went to
                    her and offered his arm, regardless who observed him, or what they thought.
                “Where have you been?” he said, in a very low voice.
                “Miss Chanson took me into the garden and sent me on an errand.”
                Leslie had just heard that Miss Chanson bad been alone in the garden, and that
                    Elinor had said she was going to her own room.
                
                “But you are not alone,” said Leslie.
                “I could not help it,” said Elinor; “he came out to smoke and met me.”
                “He always smokes in the garden at night. You knew it?”
                “Indeed, indeed, I did not.”
                “Dear, dear Elinor, do not .......”
                They had now crossed the hall and entered the parlour where the servants were
                    assembled. The necessary outer decorum prevailed, but stormy was Leslie’s bosom,
                    sad and frightened was Elinor’s, while holy words and pious attitudes alone
                    appeared to the public ear and eye. Laura hastened Elinor away with her after
                    prayers, saying that they must be punctual to?morrow at breakfast in order to be
                    ready for an expedition which she had arranged, and however early it was they
                    would now go to bed to prepare for it. Leslie was so much in love that he did
                    not venture on being offended with Elinor; he no longer assumed an authoritative
                    manner with her, that was too paternal, too like a guardian, but he had a
                    grieved look and way towards her, wholly
                    natural and unpremeditated, which brought the tears into her eyes. He saw them,
                    and they atoned for everything.
                “She is sorry,” he said to himself; “she knows she has been wrong. No doubt it is
                    his fault more than hers. Still, why did she use the worn out plea to Laura of
                    writing letters. Why did she, to me, invent the pretext of being sent on a
                    message. And she tells these little lies so innocently, she would deceive any
                    man, if he were fool enough to think there is a woman in the world who does not
                    lie.” He stamped the unoffending boards of his room as he came to this
                    conclusion, and walked up and down till he reflected there was such a thing as
                    going to bed.
                And now came Monday, the day on which the drawing, the needlework, the gardening,
                    the professional duties, if there be any, or the gun and the dogs, the fishing
                    rod and ride if there be none, are resumed after one day’s suspension. There has
                    been the village church changing the disposal of the morning and afternoon from the six days’ course;
                    there has been, perhaps, a different style of books read, an abstinence from
                    some favourite employment, and, at all events, there has been the sight of the
                    poor man’s holiday; twenty?four hours, in short, in some way different from
                    other similar periods, and a consequent mark left upon Time. Laura awaking, saw
                    before her three wretched days, in which she had to fight against the natural
                    order of things in order to bring about a base purpose of her own; a purpose
                    liable in a high degree to failure, she was disinclined to get up and do this
                    iniquitous battle, although it was not that the iniquity struck her, but her own
                    hard fate in being unable to obtain the object necessary to her happiness
                    without such a struggle.
                “And why is it?” thus her thoughts came over her, but not worded; “why is it that
                    I love him thus?—he is not eager to please me, as others are. I am obliged to
                    cultivate conversation before it runs freely between us. He does not seek out
                        my wishes as my poor brother does, and as
                    William Mansfield and the other man did whom I could not bear. No! I must
                    sacrifice plans and comforts to him. If he once loved me, if I once knew that he
                    would be sorry to go away, then I could renounce him—perhaps—but if he went now,
                    he would forget me to?morrow. I should think of him, and he would not think of
                    me; he is so commanding among men, he cares so little what is thought of him; he
                    is so acceptable in society, so beautiful—if I could but know I had power over
                    him—shall another?—she ......?”
                Laura sprang out of bed and took up her self?imposed burthen. How carefully were
                    all the minute cares of her person attended to, and how mechanically; but as for
                    her mind, its habits were not those which led her to be true with herself; hence
                    all was slurred and burred within, and she had a most imperfect view of what she
                    herself was doing. But at half?past nine she descended clean as a white pebble
                    from a running brook, neat as a rose?bud still bound by its unfolding calyx; agreeable, attentive,
                    handsome; but within, there was a heart constantly conscious in its way of
                    beating that something was wrong; there was a dry mouth which disliked the
                    business of talking, and hated that of eating; there was the sense of hearing
                    strained to catch one voice, and rebelling because that voice was not addressed
                    to her. There was fear over all, that some of the many words might be said which
                    would reveal those secrets which lay so near the surface, and which any chance
                    might lay bare from the covering she was able to draw over them.
                Chance did not show itself favourable to?day; for her plan had been to keep the
                    lovers apart by dividing the party between carriage and horseback, and to visit
                    a show place in the neighbourhood, of which the possessors were friends of hers,
                    and their society and chaperonage round their house and garden, would prevent
                    the formation of tête?à?têtes. But before
                    breakfast was over, the clouds let fall their long?threatening torrents, and in
                    a very short time Mr. Chanson declared the
                    expedition impossible.
                “It will be too late, even if the rain stops by mid?day,” said he; “you must do
                    something else. Come, we’ll have a game of billiards first, and then, when you
                    two women have written a dozen letters, and worked your frills, or your
                    kettle?holders, you shall help me to change the shells out of the library to the
                    new cases. I want the labels neatly written, and little card boxes made. I am
                    glad it rains.”
                “I will be glad too, for your sake,” said Laura; “Elinor, will you help?”
                “Oh, yes!” said Elinor.
                “You can’t want to write more letters!” said Laura, availing herself of the shot
                    which accident opened to her.
                “No,” said Elinor.
                “Have you finished all?” asked Leslie, in a low voice.
                “I have not,” said Elinor, in a voice still lower; “but say nothing. I shall be
                    so glad to do Mr. Chanson a little service.”
                
                “His sister believed that you were employed in writing last night,” said
                    Leslie.
                “How could she,” said Elinor; “I went to bed by her desire as soon as we were
                    upstairs.”
                “Equivocator!” thought Leslie.
                Evening came, and with it a change in the weather. Before setting, the sun shone
                    brightly out, and it left the autumnal garden in a gentle haze of warm air,
                    where the smell of the fresh earth and the excited flowers, and the air
                    renovated with moisture, flattered every sense of eye and ear.
                “How delicious,” said Laura, when she and Elinor stood again outside the window
                    which opened on the walk; “let us take our bonnets and walk for ten
                    minutes.”
                They did so, and at the end of that time, Laura said she must return to the
                    house. “Elinor, will you be so good as to go as far as the clerk’s, and ask him
                    to look in our pew for my prayer book? the one in vellum, you know, which my
                    brother gave me. I forgot to bring it away, and I want to gum down the label on the back before it gets
                    rubbed off.”
                “I can’t do that to?night,” said Elinor.; “in the morning if you like.”
                “Why not?” said Laura, turning full round upon her.
                “Sir Peter does not allow me to walk alone.”
                Laura burst into laughter. “What, must Sir Peter shut himself up every time it
                    pleases you to take the air?”
                “I don’t mean that” said Elinor.
                “Oh! you fancy he means to assassinate you, or take hold of your hand ...... or
                    ......”
                “No!”
                “Or that his sole object in walking out is to share the delights of your
                    conversation, and wait upon your presence. Upon my word his sole object is,
                    rather, to smoke his pipe.”
                “Oh! yes.”
                “Which object he pursues in the garden and the fir?grove. Therefore, even though
                    that frightful young man were to amuse his leisure with the sin of tobacco,
                        you would be quite safe my dear in walking
                    to the church. Now go, will you, Elinor?”
                “No,” said Elinor, “I cannot. Mr. Leslie does not choose I should.”
                “Oh! now it comes out. She’s afraid of beiing scolded, is she? What! she has been
                    scolded already, and has cried and said she would never do so no more, no!
                    never. What a good child!”
                Elinor stood with tears in her eyes. “Yes,” she said, when Laura scornfully
                    waited for an answer; “I said I never would do what he disliked.”
                “I never heard anything so babyish in my life. Why you are no more fit to be a
                    married woman than an infant. If you let a man tyrannize over you in that way
                    while he is your lover, he will be cruel as a husband, and sick to death of you
                    in six months.”
                Elinor stood silent: her colour rose under the hard words and fearful prophecy,
                    but she did not credit it, and yet would not contradict the utterer.
                “Now, my dear child,” said Miss Chan? son, “for
                    your own sake let me entreat you to behave a little more like a woman. Have a
                    little independence, just enough to make him think you his equal. If he finds
                    fault with things right and innocent, don’t mind him, go your own way. Stand up
                    to him. Men like to be stood up to.”
                “Very well,” said Elinor, smiling, “I will remember what you say.”
                “And go to the church for me,” said Laura, smiling also, “there’s a good
                    girl.”
                Elinor shook her head.
                “You will not?”
                “I cannot.”
                “Say will not at once, if you mean it. Well?”
                “Indeed I cannot, I will not.”
                “That will do. Then will you be so very obliging as to go in and tell my brother,
                    that I am obliged to go on an errand, because you will not, and
                    that I ...... and that you ...... what you choose.”
                Laura turned her back, and set out hastily; but in a few seconds she stopped, and
                    looked back, she had expected that the gentle
                    girl would have run after her, but there was Elinor, standing quite still,
                    watching her. Laura ran back—
                “What! will you do neither one nor the other, do you defy me? am I to be defied
                    in my own house? ridiculed? go to the church directly, or let me believe you are
                    the most ungrateful of women.”
                “I will not walk alone this evening,” said Elinor.
                “Will you do this, then?” said Laura, commanding her voice to the lowest and
                    calmest tone. “Will you pass this evening in your own room?”
                “I am very sorry I have offended you,” said Elinor, “I will do whatever you bid
                    me,” and she turned away, and went straight into the house, and upstairs, while
                    Laura dashed the tears of passion from her eyes, and inveighed against the
                    cruelty of the young girl, for triumphing in her victory over the lover of her
                    benefactress.
                When she reached the drawing?room it was still empty. She opened a book of
                    drawings on the table, and composed her
                    agitated frame. A few minutes brought in her brother and his guests, and then
                    the first inquiry was for Miss Ladylift.
                “She told me she was going to write letters,” said Miss Chanson, demurely.
                Sir Peter instantly glanced at his cousin, and smiled. Mr. Leslie caught the
                    smile, and his eye turned in the same moment upon Laura, but she was looking
                    straight forward, as innocent as a bird. He perceived, however, that young
                    Bicester was swallowing a scalding cup of coffee, and that lounging apparently
                    from one window to another, he silently opened the door, and disappeared.
                    Leslie, with no attempt at mystery, went out directly after. The evening was
                    growing very dusky, but he saw the man he deemed his rival, entering the avenue,
                    and hastily followed him. Sir Peter was alone; and that he was alone, surprised
                    Sir Peter. But that the person who joined him should be Leslie, thoroughly
                    annoyed him, and Leslie on his part was equally angry at finding the young
                    soldier thus apparently awaiting a rendezvous.
                    The one overtook the other, and they walked together a few yards in silence.
                “Are you going into the park?” said Sir Peter, at last.
                “No; are you?”
                “No.” Again there was silence; then Sir Peter began again.
                “I never knew you choose this walk before.”
                “Did not you?”
                “No.”
                Sir Peter shook the ashes from his cigar bitterly, and then turned suddenly, and
                    walked in the opposite direction. Leslie, who seldom smoked, took out a cigar,
                    in order to give himself some reason for being here, and puffing with undue
                    vigour, excited a great smoke, and marched to the end of the avenue; here he
                    turned, and about mid?way, the two young men met, and crossed each other, each
                    sending out a large gale of tobacco, and looking as happy as he could. How long
                    this was to go on, Leslie did not like to conjecture but at all events he did not intend to leave the ground while
                    his rival occupied it, even though they should walk thus till morning. Sir Peter
                    it seemed was not so persevering, for before they came across each other a third
                    time, he stepped on one side of the path, and left the avenue by a wicket which
                    led by a back way to the house. Leslie immediately stood still and flung his
                    cigar as far as its weight would carry it, and then collected his thoughts with
                    more form than the presence of Sir Peter had allowed.
                “It is too plain, that he expected her,” he said to himself; “then he has already
                    met her. Yet I warned her—besought her—but he is a villain, availing himself of
                    her untaught, guileless, nature—inexperienced, bewildered, humble as she is! If
                    he knew my claim upon her, she would be safe. Yet impossible! shall the silly
                    coxcomb know that it is my promised wife, whom he has hoped would come at
                    midnight to meet him? Impossible! He is going, thank heaven! to the other side
                        of the world ...... tempest, fever, sword,
                    and shot, pursue him!”
                Thus he stormed within, standing beside one of the stern fir?stems, which threw a
                    steadfast shadow on the turf from its branches between the moonlight and the
                    ground. Nearly half an hour passed, in which time Sir Peter felt fully persuaded
                    that his rival must have been tired of his suspicion, and have left the avenue.
                    He himself had been to the saloon, where still the fair Elinor was not, and with
                    some hope, rekindled from the malicious eyes of Laura, he returned again to try
                    his fortune. Slowly he paced down the avenue, and failed to perceive the dark
                    figure beneath the fir?tree. As he came on, it advanced suddenly from the
                    shadow. Sir Peter started slightly.
                “I forgot something,” said he.
                “Did you,” said Leslie.
                “Yes!” said Sir Peter, and again they passed each other, and Sir Peter proceeding
                    to the end of the avenue, opened the gate, and went finally out. “What right has he to act dragon?” said the
                    young man, as he returned home.
                Next morning, Tuesday, Leslie and Miss Chanson were walking together through the
                    garden to the conservatory. Elinor looking from her window saw them, and was
                    pleased that her angry guardianess should be in company with one who she felt
                    would speak even better of her than she deserved. So warbling some low notes
                    with her melodious throat, she turned away to put in order part of her simple
                    wardrobe, with skilful fingers well versed in the arts of hemming and
                    darning.
                “She told me,” said Leslie, to Miss Chanson, “that you sent her to her room last
                    night.”
                Laura started, not knowing how much of their interview had been repeated, and
                    looked Leslie inquiringly in the face.
                “If I did ...... ”she began, and paused.
                “Tell me one thing,” said Leslie, “did you do so from any idea that it was better
                    not to leave her walking alone?”
                
                “Why do you ask me?” said Laura, quite at ease again; “what does it matter?”
                “No, no, it does not matter ...... very much,” said Leslie; “only is it possible,
                    do you think that she intended to join ...... that is ...... to meet ......”
                “Only that could have justified me,” said Laura, candidly. Leslie
                    was silent. “I told you long ago,” said Laura, at last, “that I hoped your
                    confidence was not misplaced.”
                “No, no, it is not,” said Leslie, “but she has been in an unnatural atmosphere.
                    She came here full of innocent mistakes, and we undeceived her too hastily; she
                    has lost the landmark for all minor proprieties.”
                “Then I wonder,” said Laura, “that she should think it necessary to conceal them,
                    by such complicated statements.”
                Leslie again was silent. “She is bewildered,” said Leslie, at last, “by the
                    admiration she excites; I have not flattering words so freely at command as
                    others, and per? haps, she is better amused by
                    those who have them, than by me.”
                “That’s quite impossible,” said Laura, very quickly; then as if frightened at
                    what she herself had said, she added hastily, “perhaps she wants character, she
                    is like most women ......”
                “Oh no!” said Leslie, sighing, “she has a firm purpose, hidden under her soft
                    exterior. I will talk to your brother the moment we are alone, on Thursday, and
                    I will make her mine before any other candidate dare come between my treasure
                    and me.”
                It was now Laura who was silent. To hear a purpose announced which directly
                    contradicts the secret object of one’s endeavours and desires, is like a blow
                    struck right upon the heart. Why cannot the blinded eye of our companion see and
                    choose the path which we perceive so plainly is the one fit for him?
                Leslie was out of spirits, and when he had gone through the flowers of the
                    conservatory mechanically with Laura and the
                    gardener, he walked back with her, till they came in sight of the house again,
                    and then turned into the park, and wandered away alone, whither he did not
                    care.
                Laura proposed twenty things in order to entangle Elinor with her cousin, but was
                    baffled in all. Elinor would not take a lesson in billiards, would not learn to
                    sit the pony, would not teach Sir Peter a duet, would not lend him a book of her
                    own—she declined all, even before they were fully proposed; and at last, upon
                    the arrival of some morning visitors, attached herself to the mother of the
                    party, who did not choose to walk far, and never left her side the rest of the
                    morning.
                Laura did not venture upon any scheme for the evening, but she saw with bitter
                    pleasure, that Leslie, by seeming accident sat by another than Elinor at dinner,
                    and that when they were all assembled in the drawing?room, he and Elinor seemed
                    to want subjects of conversation, and were grave and embarrassed in place of
                    that joyful glee which Leslie’s face had so often assumed, to Laura’s anguish, when listening to, and
                    talking with Elinor.
                Wednesday was come, and now Laura had her last blow to strike, the one that must
                    undo her if it did not succeed. There was a feeling in the house about seeing
                    the last of Sir Peter, since after to?day, he could be seen and heard no more.
                    He was not to go shooting alone, nor to take a solitary gallop; he was to walk
                    with Laura and the rest, he was to visit the stables with Mr. Chanson. Even if
                    those who were not to be travellers had something better to do, there would be
                    time for that to?morrow, when there would be no more time available for Sir
                    Peter. Mr. Chanson, Leslie, and Sir Peter, were all to set out early on the
                    morrow. They were to drive together to the neighbouring town, and there to
                    separate, the two first to pursue their way to Mr. Chanson’s property, and the
                    young soldier to go on to London where his final preparations would be made.
                    Leslie, in a doubtful state of mind, was looking out for offence and cause of unhappiness; Elinor, in an humble one, was
                    unconsciously giving it. She was accustomed to the discipline of a conventual
                    school education, and had learned a degree of patience, which made her take
                    Leslie’s absence as an unavoidable trouble, of which she must not complain. He
                    also had been accustomed to the natural teaching of school, but had acquired a
                    different lesson, for his spirit had been one of those which make others yield
                    to them, and had gratified every wish as it arose. Her meekness, therefore, in
                    resigning him for a certain number of days seemed indifference in his eyes,
                    mystified as he was by Laura; and though he loved her the more anxiously for her
                    coldness, he imagined that it gave him greater reason to suspect that another
                    occupied part of his place in her heart. Elinor felt there was something wrong,
                    though she knew not what, and Leslie was conscious of a restraint, unlike those
                    happy days—the few days—when he and she wandered among the fields and woods.
                
                “So now it is come to the last evening,” said Sir Peter, as he and Laura sat
                    together an hour before dinner, in her own apartment. “I have had a very
                    pleasant visit, and I shall not forget it.”
                “And what remembrances do you carry away from our nun?” said Laura.
                “Oh! hang the little nun, I am tired of her; I can make nothing of her, and
                    really I believe our meetings have all been either my own doing, or accident.
                    She cares for nobody but Leslie.”
                “She does not care for him,” said Laura; “he is half offended, that
                    she should take his departure so quietly.”
                “Did he tell you so?”
                “No—not in so many words—but words are not always necessary to explain
                    meanings.”
                “You are so clever, Laura! you see everything.”
                “Women have that faculty, you know. Now, I would venture to lay a wager, that if
                    this last day, you were to write, soliciting one last interview, the interview
                        would be granted, or you would get a kind
                    excuse for not granting it.”
                “Oh! it is too much trouble.”
                “Where is the trouble? there is pen and ink, and I will tell you what to
                    write.”
                “But it is hardly fair.”
                “Fair indeed! as if any measures were to be kept with her. What has she done by
                    me?”
                “You! oh, I can’t keep in my head that you can possibly have any regard for a
                    person who does not adore you.”
                “No, it is most unworthy,” said Laura. “I will do better ...... there, there
                    ...... shake him off—forget him. But that little girl I should like to unmask,
                    nevertheless; come play out the play, write her a little love?letter.”
                Laura now took her portfolio on her knees, drew the little writing table close,
                    and laughing and coquetting, composed a note which amused Sir Peter, and which
                    he copied at Laura’s side, and promised to remit to Elinor. Laura agreed that he
                    should do so, but just as he was leaving the
                    room, recalled him, and told him to trust it to her care, for that she could
                    manage it much better than he. Sir Peter tossed her the note, which she caught
                    in a very pretty attitude, and kissed the tips of her fingers to him as he
                    paused at the door, to give her a last look.
                It was ten o’clock that night when a woman wrapped over her head and whole figure
                    in a cloak, brushed by Sir Peter, as he walked in the avenue, and as she passed
                    thrust a note into his hand. He caught the hand that gave it, but it told
                    nothing except that it was enveloped in a glove. Rather than be detained by him,
                    the hand slipped out of the glove, and the figure darted into the thick shade,
                    and disappeared. The glove was merely a concealment for the hand, for it had
                    plainly been held loosely, as a measure prepared beforehand to avoid detention;
                    but it was a woman’s glove, of delicate size, and was finished with a plaited
                    ribbon, such as Elinor frequently employed herself in fashioning. Sir Peter
                    laughed as he recognised it, and placing it in
                    his bosom, proceeded by the light of the moon to decipher, though with great
                    difficulty, these words—
                “I cannot come to?night, Mr. Leslie forbids me to go out.—ELINOR LADYLIFT.”
                Poor Elinor’s ill starred billet!
            
            
            
                CHAPTER X.
                SEE that man walking up and down his room all night, except when at
                    times he flung himself on the sofa, burying his head in his clenched hands. The
                    little shred of paper lay sometimes on the table, sometimes on the floor,
                    trampled on, crumpled, torn; again spread out, and read with unabating fury.
                    Beside it lay the glove, which together with the note had been brought to him by
                    Laura, and which with scarce any words she pressed upon him as the tokens of
                    Elinor’s falsity. He saw them and believed; they seemed to him to indicate that
                    the meetings between Elinor and the young soldier, which he had persuaded
                    himself were the effects of accident, or of
                    mere momentary thoughtlessness, were parts of a long?continued understanding
                    between them, and that to Elinor they had become so habitual as to make an
                    apology necessary, when she was unable to keep the appointment. How could Leslie
                    doubt? there was her handwriting, there was the glove of her fine hand—false
                    hand, false heart!—her he had trusted then in vain! the innocence by which he
                    had remodelled his own intentions, did not exist. Laura had stabbed him with
                    this poisoned dagger, and left it to work out her own ends; and frantic indeed
                    was the effect of the wound she had inflicted.
                As soon as day dawned, Leslie left the house, and continued his agitated walk up
                    and down the garden where he knew, by many a morning’s experience, it was
                    Elinor’s practise to walk before the breakfast hour, and where of late he had
                    usually joined her.
                The cold October air chilled his frame, the heavy rime, almost frost, weighed
                    down the remaining flowers and the dripping
                    grass; the sun, long hidden after it had left the horizon, struggled with the
                    mist that filled the whole atmosphere. It was late before the day became as
                    light as the hour warranted; and the savage impatience of Leslie grew almost to
                    delirium.
                At last, a window which opened to the ground from one of the sitting?rooms was
                    heard to rise, he stood still, partly hidden by the trunk of a cedar, and saw
                    shrouded in a gray cloak, and a hood concealing her face, Elinor step into the
                    garden, and move along the walk to his place. He instantly came forward, and
                    silently seizing her arm, saying no word, answering no look, dragged her forward
                    with a hand which she felt violently trembling, nor stopped till they were in
                    the wood together, deeply hidden, as the words they had to say together required
                    hiding. Then letting go her arm from one hand, and opening the other, he showed
                    her the little note and the glove, which it had clenched as they came along.
                “Your’s?” he said, fixing his bloodshot eyes on her face.
                
                “Oh, it is my glove which I had lost,” said Elinor, holding out her hand for it,
                    and looking up at Leslie, perplexed, whether to smile or yield to terror.
                “And where, and how did you lose it?” said Leslie; “tell me, explain ......
                    confess that ......”
                “How can I tell?” said Elinor, frightened, and with a trembling voice.
                “No; in one sense you cannot tell, shame forbids—your false nature forbids—can
                    you tell me this? Did that glove deliver that note? look at it.”
                Elinor looked at the little paper in his fierce hand, and recognised the first
                    words of the billet she had written months before.
                “Leslie,” she said, “I do not know, how should I? it is so long ago.”
                “Silence!” cried Leslie, “you can deceive me no longer; no affected innocence, no
                    well?continued deceit can perplex or blind me now. This is then your
                    writing?”
                “Yes,” said Elinor, earnestly looking in his face, and saying the one true word,
                        for she had nothing else her nature
                    permitted her to say. Then his fury burst out—
                “ Devil! angel! woman!” cried he. “You have failed then to deceive me! you
                    confess—we are even again. I was on the point of believing in virtue—you fail—I
                    am free, falsest, hardest, perfidious woman ......”
                Elinor interrupted him. “What harm have I done? did not you tell me I might write
                    to you.”
                “To me! oh, well?acted innocence! yes, I was so cunning. I thought to have
                    surpassed you in cunning; would I had ...... any crime better than to have been
                    smiled at till I was a fool, and for an instant to have been held in your
                    mocking snares—but it is over—seek your other victim, if you will, follow your
                    soldier if he will have you! I have my eyes open at last.”
                “As I live and stand here, Leslie, there is no human being who cares for me, or
                    whom I care for, but you.”
                “Words! sweetest words!” cried Leslie, “falser than sweet, and crueller than
                    false, were I not free. But they are nothing to me now; no, nor those; tears, nor those clasped hands, nor that well?acted
                    fear—no, no, no.”
                “Leslie!” cried Elinor, laying her hand upon his arm.
                He caught hold of her hand, and crushed it in his, like one whose nerves have
                    escaped control, and are contracting upon the object that excites them with
                    mechanical fury; then his hold relaxing, he flung her hand away, and uttering a
                    groan, which at the same time he struggled to repress, lie turned, and rushed
                    from her sight.
                Elinor was changed to stone, by all that the few minutes just passed contained;
                    she gazed on the blank space where Leslie had been, and had said such killing
                    words; she thought of herself, entering the garden but now, about, as she
                    believed, to converse with her lover, and part from him for a few days, soon
                    never to part again; and could by no means realise that his love had turned to
                    fury, that he had said he was about to leave her for ever. Her mind and body
                    seemed paralyzed, and when at last she
                    recovered strength of both, enough to move from the place where she was, she did
                    but return with benumbed steps to her own room, and there sinking upon the
                    floor, lay crushed and bowed together, sobbing as though her comfortless heart
                    must break.
                The guilty cause of all this woe, once more glittering in outside show, like some
                    splendid serpent, was descending in apparent peace to the morning meal; but
                        her bosom also burned with anxiety, and she trembled internally
                    at the thought of what aspects she might meet. Might she not there see, perhaps,
                    Leslie and Elinor, with all explained between them, and united for ever against
                    her. Might she not see Leslie frowning and despising her, Elinor sheltered by
                    him against all future malice, or should she see them alienated from each other,
                    and she herself successful. She opened the breakfast?room door, with a
                    hesitation unseen on her serene face, and glanced round; but her conjectures
                    were all wrong, for although all else were assembled, the two were not there. Again her heart bounded with fear,
                    that they might be together, too angry to keep up any appearance of good will
                    with her; and after enduring the doubt and anxiety for a few decent minutes, she
                    affected to be anxious what could have become of Elinor, and left the room to
                    look for her.
                When she beheld the young girl, she knew that her artifices had succeeded, and
                    triumph filled her heart. Elinor, abandoned by what was all the world to her,
                    and terrified at her own solitude, no sooner saw a familiar face, than she rose
                    and flung herself on Laura’s shoulder, straining her in her embrace with
                    inarticulate mourning. Laura thought of her own fine lace and muslin, which
                    Elinor was deranging; and raising her, so as to stand free of the sorrowing
                    girl, asked her, with a voice as kindly as she could make it, the cause of her
                    distress.
                Elinor’s explanation would hardly have made anything clear, had not Laura
                    possessed already a more perfect knowledge of the circumstances than she could
                    receive. The single point she cared about was,
                    what had become of Leslie, and Elinor could only repeat that he had flung her
                    off, and rushed away through the thick wood, where she soon had lost that last
                    sight of him.
                “Last indeed!” said Laura; “after such a parting, there can be no reconciliation.
                    What have you done Elinor?”
                “Indeed, indeed, I have done nothing! he is too cruel to me.”
                “Yes, too cruel; he has been very hard on you; he should have overlooked what
                    faults your ignorance of the world led you into. Think of him no more, give him
                    up as he has given you.”
                “I must die before I do that!” said Elinor.
                “Nay, nay, dear child; dying is not the thing in question. Here, dear, take a
                    little water ...... can’t you? well, lie down, or sit down, I will come again to
                    you—but they are all waiting now—I will bring you a cup of tea.”
                And Laura departed, going down stairs elastically, and filled with the image of
                        her rival, whom she had left behind
                    humiliated, robbed of her beauty by tears, and abandoned by the man who once
                    abandoned Laura for her. She made the excuse of headache, and having over?walked
                    herself, about Elinor, and now if Leslie had but come in, would have been
                    perfectly happy; but his absence raised new fears in her heart, that in giving
                    up one, he would not renew his allegiance to the other, nay, might commit some
                    rash act, her fear and her love began to dread what.
                Breakfast was nearly over when a note was brought to her brother at the other end
                    of the table; he opened and read it to himself, and Laura all the time was
                    obliged to keep smiling at her cousin, who sat beside her, for his last
                    breakfast in her society, but whose words at this time conveyed no meaning to
                    her at all.
                “What have you got there, Lawrence?” she said, at last; “you look perplexed?”
                “This fellow Leslie,” said he; “he writes me word that a messenger came for him
                    from home, and he is obliged to set off at a
                    moment’s warning. Who saw any messenger?”
                “No, sir,” said the servant, who was waiting at breakfast.
                “Who saw Mr. Leslie go?” said Mr. Chanson.
                “It was not I, sir.”
                “Go to his room. Are his things gone?”
                Nothing was gone.
                “Nor does he say anything about sending them,” said Mr. Chanson; “he’ll write
                    again, I suppose—but what a nuisance for me. Now I shall have to go alone .....
                    I shall stay, I think.”
                “Oh! no,” said Laura; “go, and perhaps he will meet you. What can have happened.
                    Perhaps his house is burned down?”
                “Perhaps he is arrested for debt?” said another.
                “Perhaps the bank he deals with is stopped?” said a third; but both Mr. Chanson
                    and Sir Peter looked at Laura, suspecting a quarrel between her and Leslie. She
                    neither said nor looked any answer, but she
                    was officious and obliging in promoting the arrangements of the party, and when
                    she fancied her brother still hesitated about his journey in consequence of
                    Leslie’s secession, she exerted herself to persuade her cousin to accompany him,
                    and demonstrated that with a little extra, exertion he might both perform this
                    friendly office by Mr. Chanson, and also get through his business in London
                    before the time came for the sailing of the ship. Sir Peter, for her sake, at
                    last consented. Mr. Chanson was satisfied to exchange Leslie for him, and all
                    seemed arranged to the general satisfaction. But five minutes before the time of
                    departure, Laura, watching her opportunity, followed her brother into his study,
                    where he was giving his last directions to a servant, and sending the man from
                    the room, suddenly put her arms round her brother’s neck and appeared to be
                    stifling the sobs which stopped her utterance.
                “My dear child—Laura—sister—what is it? Speak to me—can I help you? Only tell me
                    who has grieved you.”
                
                “Has he not forsaken me, Lawrence? Shall I ever see him again?”
                “Who is gone, Leslie! is that it? I was afraid something had gone wrong between
                    you.”
                “Oh! I have been so wrong; I have acted so foolishly. Only that little girl’s
                    artful manœuvres bewildered me. This very morning she appointed to meet him in
                    the garden, and I could not bear it. I ...... I ......”
                “You quarrelled with him, did you? and is it that which keeps Elinor up stairs
                    and drives Leslie away? But what right had you to quarrel with him; tell me, had
                    you any?”
                “What right!” said Laura impetuously, “except that of a betrothed woman?”
                “Is it so?” said her brother seriously; “in that case I have no business to go
                    looking after prospective votes. My business is to stay at home, and see that my
                    sister has justice done her.”
                But Laura sank almost on her knees, her arms clasping her brother all the
                    time.
                
                “Oh! no, Lawrence—no!—don’t ruin me quite. Any interferences of that sort would
                    destroy my happiness for ever. He loves me—he will return to me, but it must be
                    by his free will. Could I deign to accept a hand that did not bring a heart
                    ...... but the heart is there—it is mine—my own fault has alienated it for an
                    instant, but if it be left to itself it will not fail to return. If he departs
                    at my rash word, my penitent word can recall him.”
                “I thought you implied it was he who had left you?”
                “I cannot measure exactly what I say. I am distracted. I came to tell you
                    all.”
                “Let me remain with you, Laura; it will be best.”
                “No, no! I would not have him think you know anything that has passed between us.
                    Go, dear Lawrence, I will recall you if it prove necessary. All I want is to
                    have nothing concealed from you on my own part, and to be able to trust my
                    brother through good fortune and evil.”
                Real tears came into Laura’s eyes, as though
                    she had been spectatrix of the same scene at a play. Mr. Chanson was moved, and
                    repeatedly pressed upon her his offers of assistance. She, however, continued
                    steadily to refuse, and returning with him to the hall, suffered Sir Peter to
                    think she had been reddening her eyes with sisterly weeping for him, and at last
                    saw them all depart, and was very glad when the house was finally cleared, and
                    she was at liberty to put the finishing stroke to her plans.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XI.
                LESLIE’S anger and despair carried him to the end of three days, and
                    when those were elapsed, the mild image of Elinor began to break through his
                    stormy passions like present moonlight in a sky thick with black clouds. His own
                    harshness, exercised upon so delicate a feature, shocked himself; her fear, her
                    courage when she laid her soft hand upon him, her utter bereavement when he left
                    her in the deep wood alone, wounded his heart. He believed in all the faults
                    which he had believed at that moment, but he began to think they were
                    immeasurably punished by him; he felt himself the greater sufferer under that
                    punishment, and when his spirit revolted from the idea of receiving again the
                    broken vows which she had once made him, he
                    yet felt impelled to implore her pardon for the manner in which he had resented
                    her perfidy.
                When he had persuaded himself that such was the object which made him long to see
                    her again, he at once gave way to his desire to do so, and a very short time saw
                    him again in the neighbourhood of Chanson Wood, haunting every spot where he
                    could hope to meet with Elinor. But it was all in vain, the cold weather caused
                    all the shutters to be closed with declining daylight, so that he had no such
                    chance as the summer had afforded him of investigating the dwellers of the
                    rooms. No old favourite haunt was visited by her footstep, no morning or evening
                    hour brought her out to behold its beauty.
                Leslie wandered about for four and twenty hours, and then made his way to the
                    house itself, and inquired for Mr. Chanson. He was not yet come home.
                “Miss Chanson?” She was walking in the flower?garden. He had not words to ask for
                    Elinor, but followed the servant silently into
                    the garden, dreading more than wishing that the two ladies might be together.
                    But no; Laura only was there. While the servant was within hearing, Leslie’s
                    tone and manner preserved their common?place, but they were no sooner alone than
                    he broke out eagerly,
                “Can I see Miss Ladylift?” Laura hesitated. “What! she cannot forgive me?”
                “Could you forgive her?”
                “A man has always a right to forgive a woman. Where is she?”
                “Mr. Leslie ...... don’t you know?”
                “My God!” cried Leslie; “I have killed her!” and his wild eyes searched and
                    commanded Laura’s face for the fearful words he expected.
                “Not so,” said Laura; “but she is not here. Before I could communicate with my
                    brother, before I could reflect what to do, she insisted on setting out for her
                    convent.”
                “Her convent?”
                “After you were all gone, and I returned to her room, she had already made her preparations, and no efforts of mine could
                    detain her. I did what I could; I sent to Mr. Roundel, you know him, my
                    brother’s man of business, and requested him to take charge of her on her
                    journey, which he did.”
                “Tell me,” said Leslie, laying hold of Miss Chanson’s arm, and speaking in a very
                    low voice; “was she willing that he should go with her?”
                “Why?” said Laura.
                “Was there not another whom she expected to join her.”
                Laura’s colour rose to scarlet in?her face.
                “It never occurred to me till now,” she said; and in truth, Leslie had suggested
                    an event in the plot which Laura had overlooked in contriving it.
                “Where is the companion you gave her?” cried Leslie.
                “He returns to?morrow; but surely if what you fear had occurred, I should have
                    heard it from him.”
                “I can’t tell,” said Leslie, as if unable to
                    argue, able only to fear and suffer. “I shall see him the moment he comes home.
                    Farewell! Ours has been a troubled intercourse, Miss Chanson,” he said, offering
                    his hand; “forgive me much that you have against me, and which you will forget
                    when I no longer darken your happy home.” So saying, he turned away and walked
                    up the garden, Laura pursuing him with stedfast eyes.
                “Does he think to leave me thus?” she said to herself; “is all over between us,
                    does he suppose? and he goes without a look behind, unconscious that there is a
                    spell upon him, and of necessity he must return.” Then as she saw him ascend the
                    steps of the terrace, her eye could not but mark that he did so with a step very
                    unlike the decided strong movement of his general pace. “He is ill,” she said to
                    herself; “I may lose him even in trying to win him. Better even that, than that
                    he should belong to another.”
                The day was by this time dark, and Laura, whose general habits were luxu? rious, and who was to be found on cold
                    evenings in her lounging?chair at the side of a bright fire, her feet upon the
                    warm hearth, abundance of wax light on her marqueterie table, her book, her
                    work, her dress all in keeping, on this night muffled her person in a gray
                    cloak, and going herself to the stables, at the time of the hall supper, when
                    she knew one lad only would be left there, caused this boy to prepare her pony
                    carriage with uncompromising haste, and, with him to drive her, set off in cold
                    and darkness for Cantleton, the town where Mr. Roundel lived. She had readily
                    answered Leslie that he would return to?morrow, her instinct being on all
                    occasions to gain time; but she was perfectly aware herself, that he had already
                    been back a whole day, having in fact received from him the assurance that he
                    had conducted Elinor to the convent whither all Laura’s skill and power had been
                    exerted to make her fly. She had, however, felt in a moment that she must see
                    him before Leslie could do so, and had gained twenty?four hours by her ready
                    lie.
                
                It was ten o’clock before she reached the town; she had a humiliating part to
                    play, that she felt, but at least she would do it in a grand,
                    unquestionable way, and would come out of the house quite beyond being assailed
                    in person by any remarks which might be made by its indwellers when she should
                    be gone. Besides, she had brought a sum of money, so considerable (under the
                    name of paying Mr. Roundel’s expenses on his journey) that the acceptance of
                    it—and she was quite sure it would be accepted—would constitute an
                    acknowledgment that further services must be rendered in return. Still, while
                    she waited for him in his parlour, where the fire was out, and the chairs all
                    set back against the wall, she had uneasy beatings at her heart which kept her
                    standing; and which she thought to subdue when he came in, by taking a seat with
                    as much dignity as if she were in her usual position of command. She did not
                    begin with any reference to the strange lateness of the visit, for the cause of
                    it would soon, she knew, seem stranger than the visit itself, but without apology or explanation opened her
                    business.
                “You have done me a service, Mr. Roundel,” Laura began, “in conveying that young
                    lady back to France.”
                “Since it was for your interest, as I understand,” began Mr. Roundel.
                “For her own, I beg it to be understood,” said Laura.
                “Oh! certainly, certainly.”
                “Did she seem delighted at returning to the convent?”
                “I can hardly say delighted,” answered Mr. Roundel.
                “Indeed! I am surprised at that. What could then make her wish so much to return?
                    Did anybody come to welcome her?”
                “A maid?servant answered the bell when ......”
                “No; before you reached the convent? In fact, Mr. Roundel, I have cause to
                    suspect that her eagerness for the journey—for the trouble of which, by the by,
                    allow me to offer you this note”—Mr. Roundel looked at it, and began to
                    understand that his answers must take some
                    shape which he did not as yet perceive—“her eagerness must be connected with the
                    departure of ...... you knew my cousin, Sir Peter?”
                Mr. Roundel bowed assent.
                “You must be aware that her fancy for this gentleman could never be encouraged by
                    us; but it is possible that infatuation on his part ......”
                “Very possible,” said Mr. Roundel.
                “What, you had reason to suspect?”
                “Nay, I cannot deny I had my suspicion,” said Mr. Roundel, thinking that
                    expression would suit whatever came next.
                “Indeed! and what followed?”
                “What followed?” said Mr. Roundel. “Well, to tell the truth, nothing very
                    particular.”
                “You trifle, sir; if that young man gave you cause to suspect intentions which
                    she favoured, I conclude that you were unable to conduct your charge safely to
                    the convent.”
                “I assure you,” answered Mr. Roundel, hastily,
                    “I safely delivered Miss Ladylift into the hands of the Superior; what might
                    happen afterwards, I cannot say.”
                “Unfortunately, Mr. Roundel, I fear that I can.”
                “Is it possible?” said Mr. Roundel. “At all events, I discharged my duty.”
                “Undoubtedly, there is no fault of yours; but however distressing to myself to
                    speak upon such a subject, I feel it my painful task to mention to you, that
                    should any one inquire about her from you, you had better put an end at once to
                    any interest taken in her, by stating that, on too good authority, you know her
                    to be unworthy of it.”
                “Upon my soul!” said Mr. Roundel; “and if particulars are asked, I can refer
                    ......”
                “It is not probable that I should enter upon such subjects,” said Laura, in the
                    most dignified manner; “I have already said, perhaps, too much; and when I came
                    to you, I did so as to a friend, who, I trusted, would relieve me from the
                    necessity of saying more.”
                
                Mr. Roundel bowed, and Laura, rising, prepared to depart.
                “But if I am asked where I left the young lady,” said he, “what must I say?”
                “The truth, sir,” said Laura, very loftily. “What you yourself know to have been
                    true as to her arrival, and what you understand from me to have been true with
                    respect to her subsequent departure.”
                “I understand,” said Mr. Roundel, in a very low voice. Laura’s eyes met his;
                    then, in a grand way, she requested his pardon for disturbing him at this late
                    hour, and bidding him good?night, sailed out of the house, Mr. Roundel following
                    her to the pony carriage, and when she was gone shrugging his shoulders, and
                    muttering an epithet I will not repeat.
                The next morning, Leslie, who had passed the night in walking about a bedroom of
                    the inn in the town, wandered forth, dragging through the time till he might
                    inquire when Mr. Rounder’s return was likely to take place.
                “Master was already at home,” the maid
                    answered, and Leslie and he soon stood face to face. Mr. Roundel had thought
                    over the matter, and had resolved in his own mind that the rich and powerful
                    Miss Chanson was the injured person in this, to him, obscure history, and that,
                    on the whole, in adopting her views of it, he should best consult his own
                    interests, as well as her wishes. He therefore scrupled not to give Leslie the
                    version Laura had taught him.
                Leslie received the story so calmly, and so much as a matter?of?fact, that Mr.
                    Roundel became almost persuaded that he himself had been telling the truth.
                “A very fine young man,” said he to himself, when, after thanking and wishing him
                    good morning, Leslie disappeared down the street. “A fine man, and takes the
                    result of his adventures quietly;” and with that Mr. Roundel turned back to his
                    office.
                Leslie meantime reached the inn, and wished to inquire what public conveyance
                    would first start on the road to his own place; but the words which he found
                        him? self using were not those which bore
                    the meaning he wished to convey. He tried to frame the name of the town nearest
                    to his own house, and spoke as slowly as he could in order to fasten the sound
                    and the idea together; but even then he failed, and perceiving that he had done
                    so, he turned away by a great exertion, and forced his limbs to carry him a few
                    step’s; then a great dizziness came over everything, and stumbling forward upon
                    a seat which he just descried, he there lost consciousness of himself and
                    everything else.
                He was known at the inn as the guest of Mr. Chanson, and when the doctor had seen
                    him, and declared him dangerously ill with brain fever, and when it became
                    apparent how desirable the presence of some responsible person might become, the
                    landlord sent information to Chanson Wood of what had happened. Mr. Chanson had
                    returned the evening before, and his hospitable nature led him at once to the
                    desire of receiving his sick friend, and to have him nursed under his own roof.
                    Laura se? conded him, and looked upon all as
                    the favourable working of her fate, which was relieving her own brain from the
                    necessity of forming further devices for the achievement of her scheme.
                A carriage fitted up for bearing an invalid, was despatched with a handy footman.
                    Mr. Chanson went on horseback to the inn, and before the end of the day, the
                    unconscious Leslie was conveyed to Chanson Wood; and lay there helpless, like
                    one entangled of old in the meshes of a corrupt and beautiful enchantress.
                The struggle between life and death was more severe and more solemn than Laura
                    had anticipated. It lasted very long, and sometimes forced upon her the real
                    probability of that which she had hitherto put to herself in words only, namely,
                    that Leslie would die. “If he should die?” she said to herself, believing it,
                    and trembling at what it implied, but she threw off the image, for it was in
                    disagreement with all, the web she had been weaving, and whatever unfavourable
                    report was brought her, attributed its worst
                    gloom to mistake or ignorance, which falsely represented the real state of
                    things.
                But it was very long before the demon of the fever could be cast out of Leslie’s
                    frame, and when at last it was expelled, it left him shattered, exhausted, and
                    so utterly devoid of the strong sense of life he had hitherto enjoyed, that it
                    seemed to him impossible ever to be again the free, careless, powerful being he
                    was accustomed to be; rather, he felt that he had only escaped the death of
                    fever to go down more slowly, and as surely, into the grave, where all things
                    are dark and at rest. His mind had begun under the auspices of the pure love
                    with which Elinor had at last inspired him, to have healthier feelings than were
                    habitual to it, of happiness and of virtue; but the disappointment of his
                    newly?born faith and hope had swept away all the better feelings which grew up
                    with them, and a more gloomy scepticism as to whatever was just and good never
                    darkened any human bosom than that with which
                    he got up from his long illness.
                It was now five months since he had fallen down unconscious in the inn at
                    Cantleton, and been conveyed by Mr. Chanson to his own house. He had just become
                    able to walk about, and his only desire was to go home and die there. He felt
                    the burthen of his obligations to Mr. Chanson and Laura, and heartily wished
                    they had left him to perish when he fell ill, and have neither tormented him
                    with a second long process of dying, nor with a debt to them, which nothing he
                    could do was able to pay. He made efforts beyond his present strength in order
                    to get away the sooner, and the re?action when he was alone piled over his
                    spirit the mountain weight of its oppression.
                Laura watched him; and it seemed to her the moment was coming when she might
                    finish her enchantment, and prove whether the spell had been woven strong enough
                    or not. She did not deceive herself as to the fact that he loved her not; he was
                        obliged, but not grateful; he was waiting
                    impatiently to leave her, though there was no one whose society he would seek in
                    exchange. She could not talk so as to interest him now; though he did his best
                    to renew the easy gossip of bygone days. Still she had strong hold on him, and
                    knew it. She had kept the secret of his engagement to Elinor inviolable; and he
                    was thankful that it had never reached Mr. Chanson. She had falsely insinuated
                    to him that her own name had been coupled with his through the county, and that
                    the result was injurious to her hitherto sacred reputation; he had believed her;
                    and though he said to himself the fault was hers, and so must be the penalty,
                    yet it was difficult to feel himself in no degree committed; and, finally, his
                    fixed expectation of death and his disenchantment with all faith in happiness,
                    persuaded her that he would be indifferent to one scheme of life almost as much
                    as to another.
                It was one early April day that she proposed to him to walk for ten minutes in
                        the garden; and he, eager to prove himself
                    strong and independent again, complied. Laura knew how weak was his frame, and
                    wondered that he could force himself to pass and repass so often up and down the
                    dry gravel walk; at last, she proposed to rest under a bower which kept off the
                    active breeze of April and the bright sunbeam, and Leslie consenting, they sate
                    down side by side.
                “This short walk is long for me,” said Leslie, “but my ability to perform it
                    reminds me that I am able at last to relieve you of a burthen which you have so
                    kindly supported. To?morrow I will find my way home.”
                “If you have resolved upon a thing,” said Laura, “you will do it; remonstrance is
                    useless.”
                “Yes,” said Leslie; “but it is a kindness in you to speed me thus.”
                “The kindness of letting you free yourself from my society without useless
                    contradiction? you cannot say yes to that; social forms forbid you; but honesty forbids you to say
                    no.”
                “Not so much honesty,” said Leslie, “as the conviction that I am a dying man. I
                    cannot fence with words at this time; I have strength for nothing but the bare
                    truth, and I allow that to die in a dark corner at home, is what remains of my
                    ambition.”
                “Alas!” said Laura, “since you say those cruel words, I know that you mean them;
                    I too have a meaning,” she went on.
                “Nay, do not tell me,” said Leslie, for he felt she had a scene in store, and he
                    shrank from the trouble of it. “There is no meaning, no purpose which has
                    anything to do with me, or in which I have a part to bear.”
                “I mean,” said Laura, suddenly, “that in your death, more die than you.”
                “By no means. I was a pleasant fellow enough last year, but this one, I am a mere
                    curtain, a drop?scene; when I am pulled away, all the stage will be bright
                    again.”
                “And all this for the sake of one who is
                    unworthy to be remembered!” ejaculated Laura.
                “One,” said Leslie, shuddering, “whose name must not be a sound again, for God’s
                    sake. Unspoken as it is, it galvanizes life back to my heart.”
                “Forgive me, Leslie, I am grieved to have said it.”
                “Forgive!” he answered, 
                        “
                         
                    there is much of that needed on all sides—not by you, however. These
                    are idle words.”
                “No, not idle,” said Laura, “I am not without need of forgiveness, though others
                    want it more.”
                “Don’t say so, for you do not mean it, nor have I wit or strength to unravel your
                    feigned humility. In my best days I always was idle about contradicting those
                    who spoke ill of themselves.”
                “You are hard,” said Laura, “and oblige me to look very narrowly to my judgment
                    of myself. Perhaps you are right; though I may have done a wrong thing, still it
                    is possible that, like Othello, I was not the most guilty.”
                
                “‘More sinned against, than sinning,’” said Leslie; “I told you so.”
                Laura paused, she thought he would ask in what she had been sinned against, but
                    he said nothing, and she was obliged herself to make use of the opportunity she
                    had opened. After a minute’s silence, therefore she resumed.
                “Society makes crimes out of things which are innocent by Nature. When man is in
                    prosperity a woman is obliged to deny that his good or evil destiny can interest
                    her, but when fortune has forsaken him, when he is unhappy, ill, lonely, is it
                    unwomanly then to say she feels for him?”
                “Alas!” said Leslie, “I am not deserving of one kind feeling. I tell you truly
                    that I cannot rouse one in return, for any human creature. Who could, when his
                    grave was dug, his shroud making?”
                “Do not talk thus, Leslie; even were it true, a woman, were she friend, sister,
                    wife, would know no comfort, except to watch and support every step which
                    remained of his earthly career to one in such trouble.”
                
                “I am no judge of that,” said Leslie, smiling; “I think, however for my own part,
                    that I am like an unsociable lion, who stalks into the wilderness to die, and
                    leaves the lionesses to enjoy themselves in the world again, when he is
                    gone.”
                “The world,” said Laura, forcing back conversation to a grave tone, “looks to
                        you for its opinion of me.”
                “Nay,” said Leslie, “it cannot be so unjust.”
                “Cannot be!” cried Laura; “why use that vain phrase when nothing is more certain
                    than that it is? But heed it not. It is fair, I know that the woman
                    who has ventured to feel unasked should learn to the uttermost how she has
                    offended the pride of man.”
                “On the contrary,” said Leslie, “our manly phrase is that we are much flattered
                    by such generosity.”
                “And your meaning is that, you despise it.”
                “That depends upon whether it gives pleasure. For my part,” he went on, “she whom I loved is dead, she is as if dead, and
                    that deadness has spread over me, so that I am already a mere citizen of that
                    quiet country, from returning to which I have been unblessed with a short
                    respite. Let us talk no more.”
                “Yes, I must say what I have to say; I am wrong to do so, but your desolate words
                    wring it from me. I liked you prosperous, I love you miserable; answer what you
                    will, these are plain words—I cannot deceive.”
                “Oh no! I can never be deceived again, I can never feel again. I tell you truly,
                    those words of yours leave me unmoved, therefore unsay them. I can easily
                    forget.”
                “No, Leslie, they are as true as that they have been spoken.”
                “They have a meaning, certainly,” said Leslie, “but hardly that which they bear
                    at first sight. Let us understand each other: do you believe that busy bodies
                    would respect you more if you bore my name? A dying man’s name is not much to
                    give.”
                
                “Leslie, can you think, that even if the world has been so unjust, (and so it may
                    have been), such selfish thoughts can prompt me in what I say?”
                “Call them by some other title than selfish thoughts, and they seem a fair motive
                    enough. Only be honest with yourself; confess to yourself that you are moved by
                    some such motive, and that you know I am so indifferent to the whole world that
                    I cannot love nor esteem any member of it; nay, that kind words, such as you
                    have used, pain or annoy me, more than any amount of indifference.”
                “You hate me for them,” said Laura.
                “No, I cannot hate, I cannot love; it is to me as if you said my name could be
                    useful to you, and as if I hesitated whether to give it or not. Can you still
                    wish it?”
                “Can I do otherwise?” said Laura.
                “Yet reflect: should you not buy too dear the suppression of certain rumours
                    which you say exist, if to attain that end, you must undertake to walk by a
                    dying man to his grave?”
                
                “Leslie, you know me, or affect to know me very little. I have said the word
                    which once you almost said to me, I have truly said it; you knew long since,
                    that you were dear to me—you forget it—it was indifferent to you. It was not
                        I who forgot it, and now, when all forsake you, I say again, I
                    love you.”
                “Remember, even those words leave my heart unmoved. Laura forgive me, but I seem
                    to myself like the statue of stone, upon taking whose hand we have all seen such
                    unpleasant consequences ensue at the opera.”
                “Can you jest?” said Laura.
                “No, I will not—I will calculate. I hear those strange words of yours comparing
                    them with scenes which I confess remain in my memory. I reflect on the evil you
                    say the world has cast on you. I repeat that I feel nothing, and that what I do,
                    or what I forbear is indifferent to me. And after that—if you
                        will—be my wife.”
                Laura held out her hand, he took it; not as a
                    friend takes his friend’s, not as a lover grasps that of his mistress; but he
                    laid his palm upon the back of her hand, and rising, led her silently towards
                    the house.
                Pale, unanimated, uncongenial, these two went slowly along the walk, while the
                    clouds of a suddenly overcast spring sky veiled the light of the day. It was
                    like Adam and Eve wandering through the world after they were cast out of
                    Paradise.
                Next day Leslie told Mr. Chanson of his engagement with Laura, and departed to
                    his own house. All approach to tenderness on the part of Laura, he treated as if
                    it aid not exist, and Mr. Chanson, a matter?of?fact man, was completely puzzled.
                    But Laura was contented. The project which had seemed almost impossible was
                    executed; and when she pondered over the situation in which she found herself,
                    she shut her eyes upon the fact that Leslie’s misery was her own creation, and
                    dwelt upon that of attaching herself to an un?
                    happy and suffering man, till she believed that she was both generous and
                    unselfish in so doing.
                Leslie meantime reached the Tower in a state of perfect exhaustion, and he
                    thought with pleasure that the next tidings Laura would receive of her
                    bridegroom, would be in the formal style, and on the formal deep?edged paper of
                    the undertaker. He sank into a stupified sleep, at the length of which the few
                    servants in his house were too uninterested in their master to wonder, and
                    probably did him the best service in their power by neglect. He woke and
                    wondered that he did so, and now without rule and without physic, proceeded to
                    live or die, just as day by day might determine. His time was passed in the most
                    absolute solitude, so that through the twenty?four hours he would sometimes not
                    find occasion to utter a word; he would lie at length on an easy chair, his
                    gloomy eyes fixed on one spot, or wander into the air, and out of sight, nobody
                    knew whether afar off, or just hidden by the first great tree, or projecting buttress of the old wall;
                    and here suffering his ideas to come or go as they would, the gloom of his mind
                    seemed to settle thicker and thicker, as weary day was added to weary day. To
                    himself he appeared drifting into that dark chaos, which, as he believed
                    surrounded on all sides the brief light of conscious being; and the impression
                    was the stronger, because he had lost entirely the activity of those mental
                    faculties which had hitherto been his pride and pleasure. He never read, never
                    composed, never remembered the images with which former reading had stored his
                    mind. Nature was uninteresting. There was sound without music; forms, but no
                    beauty; actions, but no crime, and no virtue. Even the bitter past was not
                    enough to account for his total shipwreck; he was convinced as fully as if it
                    had been matter?of?fact, that the near approach of dissolution it was which thus
                    covered him over with shadow.
                In this mental condition, he wrote several times to Laura, to break off the
                        engagement she had taken on herself. To
                    him it was a matter of indifference, but to her it would plainly be mere misery.
                    Laura, however, heeded no more what he said about himself than she had heeded
                    the evil reports of the physician, when he was ill at Chanson Wood. She had her
                    own intemperate hallucination about Leslie, which had begun in fancy, went on in
                    jealousy, and was confirmed by the measures into which she had thrown her
                    conscience, and her very soul, to secure him. It was not likely that she should
                    stop now. If a thing could be done twice, it would very seldom be done the
                    second time. But the girl who marries for money must reach the enjoyment of
                    coaches, respect, and fine clothes before—if it were to be done again—she would
                        not do it; the man who sets his fancy on power, must have
                    possessed the pride of governing, and the homage of the multitude, before he can
                    tell whether the sacrifices made for it were worth while. In the same way,
                    Laura, with a mind incapable of self?control or self?sacrifice, acknow? ledged no alternative except being the wife
                    of Leslie; and thus, under gloomy auspices, their marriage was privately
                    celebrated in the drawing?room of Chanson Wood, during the month of November of
                    this year.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XII.
                LESLIE’S excuse to himself for marrying as he did, was the ever present
                    conviction that he must die. But for that sick state of mind he could have done
                    no such thing. He believed the world to be closed upon him, and circumstances
                    drifting him towards Laura, he had wearily yielded himself to them for the few
                    months he expected to know the last of life, and its society.
                Time, however, as any one more accustomed to illness would have anticipated,
                    produced a gradual amelioration; and it was with reluctance that Leslie found
                    himself compelled to acknowledge a renewal of the life which his will was ever
                    prompt to lay down. The commonplace matters of a household in which he was
                    called to act, did him good. A detected
                    poacher, for instance, a cheating tradesman, a groom who neglected a horse; and
                    he would have been ashamed to suffer the intellectual despair which consumed
                    him, to show itself among practical men, or domestics of his house. He had
                    letters to write about ordering claret, or paying for a dog?cart, and not
                    deigning to ask assistance, performed these commonplace tasks, and found they
                    made inroads on the army of his phantoms. When he mounted his horse again, the
                    familiar exercise was useful to him, and the first animal he rode being
                    excessively perverse and obstinate, he had no time to meditate by brook sides,
                    or through shadowy lanes.
                Thus through the winter he went on resuming his intellectual health, though the
                    moral sank to a lower and lower tone, as he continually reflected on the dream
                    of innocence and virtue which had existed only to make him the dupe of a girl of
                    seventeen. That false girl was ever present to his ideas, he repented his
                        forbear? ance, he imaged her to himself in
                    the society she had chosen, he analysed over and over the apparent
                    guilelessness, the exquisite innocence of her demeanour, baffled how to
                    reconcile them with what he knew of her treason.
                “But did not I myself bid her follow her soldier, if he would have her?” he
                    repeated to himself. “Heaven! how infinitely far was I from believing such a
                    coarse word could resemble the truth.”
                He had more thoroughly believed that he was speaking the truth, when he told
                    Laura, that in marrying her, she was perfectly indifferent to him. So she was
                    indeed, and very soon did Laura, after reaching the point she had allowed to
                    dazzle her, begin the descent which led away from that glittering height. All
                    her life she had so far taken pleasure in being popular, as to make people as
                    comfortable as she readily could; her brother’s habits and fancies, her cousin’s
                    whims and wishes, she had never traversed, nay, much more had promoted, and this
                    same patronising and good? humoured compliance
                    she was now quite willing to extend to her husband. But in return she had
                    hitherto got gratitude and worship, and had been exalted to the place of oracle
                    in all matters which admitted a reference. There was a difference now; for she
                    had become the companion of a man excessively her superior, whose time and
                    habits were spent on objects which required rather her exclusion than her
                    assistance. She attempted changes, but found quickly that the ways of the house
                    must be the ways of the master; and that there was an unbending will in this
                    respect which stopped her at once. To gain the upper hand, she tried jealousy,
                    she tried sickness, she tried magnanimity, but all in vain; Leslie kept her to
                    her bargain, that in marrying him, it was her whim and fancy which were
                    gratified.
                “Poor Laura” he said to himself,“I promised her I would die, and here she is
                    suffering all the penalties of believing me. I am sure I intended it.”
                Laura’s goodhumour soon gave way to these
                    trials; her next effort was anger, passion, reproach; but to those he put an
                    authoritative stop. Love was far from them both he knew; but ridicule should be
                    equally far; an outer decorum should prevail in his house; and as for the rest,
                    were not women proved to him to be creatures undeserving respect, incapable of
                    goodness?
                Rather more than a twelvemonth had passed since their ill?omened marriage; and
                    however apparent the unsuitableness of Laura’s character became, the secret of
                    her machinations remained undiscovered. In the early days of her marriage, the
                    apprehension that some chance might reveal it, had continually haunted her.
                    Every letter which she saw Leslie reading made her anxious; she watched his face
                    for the sudden lighting of discovery; she dreaded when he put it by and said
                    nothing about the contents, that suspicion had been excited which he would
                    silently follow out; she examined his letters before they reached him, if she
                    found it possible to do so; and made pretexts,
                    which afforded mirth to the servants’?hall, to look at the addresses of those
                    which he left for the post; every acquaintance awakened her fears, lest some
                    chance word should reveal the real position of those whom she had represented
                    under such false colours; and in her anxiety and alarm, she had invented many
                    ingenious excuses for avoiding communication with all who could by any chance be
                    acquainted with the persons and circumstances of the past months.
                But as time went by and no revelation took place, as Leslie remained unaltered,
                    and no kind of allusion to the past ever arose between them, the silence in
                    which all was involved began to give her confidence, and that which might have
                    happened at any moment, and which did not happen, seemed like a thing gone into
                    oblivion, which never could possess a tangible shape again.
                Laura grew bold in impunity, and then followed the reflection that she had
                    secured the position she now occupied beyond the power even of discovery to dispossess her. By degrees she began to feel as if
                    the very discovery would have its advantages. There would be at least a
                    momentary triumph, in showing how she had outwitted Leslie; and when his
                    superiority weighed upon her, unsoftened by any kindness on his part, there
                    would arise a longing on her’s, to show that she had once baffled his talents,
                    and possessed herself of a place from which no efforts of his could now remove
                    her. It was a heavy secret, which she dreaded to betray, yet found it difficult
                    to keep, and which would come almost into the shape of words occasionally, yet
                    shrink back in terror when there arose a real chance that it should escape.
                In this uneasy state, irritation arose out of many a trivial circumstance; harsh
                    words were said on her side; cold scorn of them was implied on his; he forgot
                    them, and was neither more nor less annoyed by the companion who had forced
                    herself upon him than he had expected to be; his interests were all apart from
                    her, and were tinctured by the gloomy
                    atmosphere which still clouded his spirits. The habits of his mind made him
                    resort as necessarily to reading, as his bodily appetite to food; but the only
                    subjects which could fix his attention were the stern expression of great
                    passion, the details of strong purpose and of grand crimes—whatever was bitter
                    towards man, whatever lowered human nature, he dwelt upon, and thence broke away
                    to his own gloomy reflections, pursuing the phantom of past faith and hope to
                    their disappearance, and racking himself against the problem of Elinor’s
                    character and conduct (as they appeared to him), which it baffled him to
                    explain. He wearied himself with restless exercise, and sought the reality or
                    the semblance of danger as a means of forgetting for a while his vain longing
                    for the past; and his hatred of the present. Miserable, but resolutely silent,
                    he lived through the days.
                In these circumstances Mr. Chanson found them, when, in the end of the autumn
                    following their marriage, he re? turned from a
                    moor belonging to him in Scotland, and came to pay a visit at the Tower. He saw
                    nothing that was going wrong; outer forms were carefully observed, and he was
                    satisfied with the smooth surface which was presented to his eye; the bitter
                    words which Laura could not restrain, were unanswered by her husband, or made to
                    pass for jests; the complaints she suggested were unreasonable; and her brother,
                    who, in the midst of all his admiration, had sometimes felt her government
                    rather a severe one, secretly applauded the manner in which Leslie reigned so
                    absolutely, yet without any ostentation of dominion. He was well pleased with
                    his reception, with the amusements of the wild and extended country, and finding
                    himself alone with his sister and his brother?in?law, his talk flowed more
                    freely than it did when tramelled by society.
                They were all three one afternoon upon the terrace of the Tower, where the
                    building wanted most repair, and where Leslie had arranged some plans of
                        alteration. Laura was very much opposed to
                    these; she had always drawn the elevation of her brother’s cottages, and had as
                    constantly met with unbounded applause; and when she first heard of the
                    necessity of building at the Tower, she had prepared a drawing of battlements
                    and loopholes, which Leslie negatived at once. The subject had been ever since a
                    sore one, and Leslie avoided it as much as possible. To?day he had been far from
                    willing to make this spot the scene of their saunter, but Laura, who was in a
                    bad temper, knew no ease till she had got her brother there, and could vent her
                    discontent.
                “I should not wish this picturesque building spoiled,” said Laura; “should you,
                    Lawrence?”
                “No, who would?”
                “We don’t agree about the way of restoring it,” said Leslie.
                “No; I incline for preserving the character of the building. I don’t see any
                    reason for destroying a beautiful thing,
                    merely because another person wishes to preserve it.”
                “Look here, Lawrence,” said his host; “this fragment of a wall fell when I was a
                    boy, climbing the Tower. It and I came down together.”
                “And you not killed?” said the Squire.
                “So it seems,” said Leslie.
                “Is that the reason,” asked Laura; “why you mean to leave the Tower with a great
                    rent in it?”
                “But I don’t mean to do so.”
                “Nay, the other day when I showed you my idea of the restoration, I understood
                    you to say it did not suit you to do anything to the Tower.”
                “Pardon me, I did not feel the merit of your suggestion; but I was and am aware,
                    that restoration of some kind is essential.”
                “When do you mean to begin building,” said Mr. Chanson.
                “I have not thought much about it,” said Leslie.
                “Then you may leave it to me. I have thought, and I have a right to do as I please with a part, at least, of the
                    expenditure of the house.”
                “What is your meaning?” said Leslie.
                “Once I could do as I pleased with all that was then my own.”
                “That’s a strange observation,” said Leslie; “let us speak of it this once,
                    because your brother is here. Lawrence, I beg of you to say whether the implied
                    reproach is well founded.”
                “Laura, my dear, really I am obliged to acknowledge that for once you are wrong.
                    Leslie’s magnificence to you ...... do recollect!”
                “Wrong? did you ever say such a word as that to me, while I was so happy in your
                    house.”
                “One more word,” said Leslie; “be just with yourself. In bringing you here, did I
                    deceive you?”
                “Oh, dear no! I am not so easily blinded as others are who boast
                    very much of their penetration.”
                “What are you saying or meaning,” said her brother, who observed Leslie’s heightened colour at this last thrust, and
                    the sudden compression of his stern lips. In fact, he understood Laura to allude
                    to his fatal secret with regard to Elinor, which she had hitherto kept from her
                    brother, but which he would prefer at once revealing, to having it held out as a
                    threat whenever she might lose her temper.
                “It is quite true,” said he to Mr. Chanson, “that I was strangely deceived by one
                    to whom your sister alludes.”
                “No, no, Leslie!” cried Laura; “I did not mean that.”
                “What do you mean? What does anybody mean?” said Mr. Chanson.
                “It is best to cast away secrets,” said Leslie; “who could bear one clinging
                    about him like a poisoned shirt? That young girl ......”
                “What! Elinor?” said Mr. Chanson; “nay, Laura told me all about her the very day
                    we parted, when Peter took the place with me which you threw up, and went I know
                    not where ...... but what does it matter? Laura forgave you.”
                
                “Forgave me?” said Leslie.
                “Well, whatever word lovers please to use. You were reconciled at all events, for
                    here you are man and wife.”
                “Do choose some other topic for discussion,” said Laura; “I will explain what he
                    means presently,” she added, in a low voice to Leslie.
                “No, allow me to understand your brother,” said Leslie; “I remember the day
                    perfectly, but being absent, you know, I was not aware of the movements of the
                    rest of the party. Your nephew took my place?”
                “He did. Laura persuaded him.”
                “Yes,” said Laura; “they travelled part of their journey together. Now, Lawrence,
                    you promised to walk to the brook. Let us go, or it will be too late.”
                “Well, if you wish it,” said her brother; but Leslie interposed.
                “Did you ever learn where Sir Peter went when you parted?”
                “To Ceylon, man! We all know that..”
                “But in the interval between the time when you
                    parted from him and he set out, are you aware where he went?”
                “Nowhere at all,” answered Mr. Chanson, “except where I went. I never did part
                    with him till he went abroad. How could he go anywhere?”
                “I heard a very different tale,” said Laura.
                “That’s unaccountable,” said Mr. Chanson; “why, you know very well that I went to
                    sea with him for a dozen miles, and came back in Mendip’s yacht.”
                “Are you sure,” said Leslie to Laura in the commonplace tone of conversation;
                    “that you did hear a different account?”
                “Did not you?” said Laura, in an abrupt, scornful voice.
                “Yes. I was told another.”
                “And believed it,” whispered Laura, under her breath.
                Leslie looked at her fixedly. Mr. Chanson went on speaking. “Peter was sorry
                    enough that his visit was at an end. He was a great admirer of Laura, and in
                        a lesser degree of Elinor also. It was a
                    pity she could not marry him.”
                “Do you speak so easily of what passed?” said Leslie.
                “Why not? if she had liked him it would have been all very well.”
                “She had no mind to marry so poor a man,” said Laura.
                “Poor little thing! Any fate would have been better than shutting herself up in
                    the nunnery,” said Mr. Chanson; “I often think of her.”
                “She is there?” said Leslie, in a voice of perfect composure, and Laura could not
                    but start at the self?command which enabled him to catch at the revelation her
                    brother was unconsciously making without betraying that it was new to him.
                “Certainly; it was entirely her own choice to go there, was not it, Laura?”
                “Her own, solely, I suppose we must conclude,” said Laura.
                “You hear of her sometimes?” asked Leslie.
                “Yes; every three months an ecclesiastic
                    connected with the establishment acknowledges my remittance of her little
                    income. It is little, indeed, but since she has chosen that life, they tell me
                    it is better not to add to it.”
                “You have never failed to hear from him?” asked Leslie.
                “No, except when I was absent from home. Laura had the letter then. Did not she
                    mention it?”
                “Not I,” said Laura; “was it worth while? I am tired of the subject—I am cold. I
                    shall go in ......” and she departed, walking leisurely towards the house.
                “I see how it is,” said Mr. Chanson; “Laura has not quite forgotten the fit of
                    jealousy which Elinor caused her, but take no notice of it. Women are naturally
                    unreasonable, and must be allowed for.”
                “In what have I given her cause?” said Leslie.
                “Oh! I am alluding to the time before your marriage, to your great quarrel, when
                    we all parted.”
                “She complained to you?”
                
                “No, no! don’t think it; but seeing her so unhappy, I could not but inquire the
                    cause, and then, for the first time I learned your engagement, and her fears
                    that Elinor had entangled you, though in love all the time herself with young
                    Bicester.”
                “All that, she told you?”
                “Yes.”
                “Indeed!” said Leslie; “never mind. I begin to understand. And Sir Peter, what
                    did he say?”
                “I never said much to him on the subject. But in what little he did, say, he
                    alleged in his own excuse that having learned your engagement to Laura, from
                    Laura herself, he thought himself entitled to make love to Elinor, as you had no
                    right to do so—all the time acknowledging that she avoided him as much as she
                    could, and that he was wrong to have so persecuted her.”
                “Did he say that?” asked Leslie; then, as Mr. Chanson made no answer beyond a
                    brief “Ay,” he repeated in a tone which would
                    have startled one more observant than the Squire: “Did he say
                    that?”
                “Yes: honourable of him was it not? I should have been quite deceived in that
                    young girl had not Laura told me beforehand of her little skittish ways.”
                Leslie kept silence, but with a sudden effort he broke in two the short stick
                    which he held in his hand; his brother?in?law looked at him in astonishment.
                “By Jove! that’s a strong arm. Is it some trick? How do you do it?”
                “Sometimes one has a wish to do a strong thing,” said Leslie, pitching away the
                    broken pieces.
                Mr. Chanson rose from the stone wall where he had been sitting. Leslie also
                    moved, and took the way towards the house, whither, following the impulse thus
                    given, the Squire also bent his steps, and entering it by the first door they
                    came to, Mr. Chanson turned into the hall, and Leslie, the moment he was alone,
                    strode up stairs in quest of Laura.
                She knew he was coming, but did not know
                    herself what mood his coming would excite in her. She was frightened at one
                    moment, angry and fierce at another; sometimes he seemed the Leslie upon whom
                    she had let her fancy doat, and then the Leslie whom at other times she hated
                    with all the violence of her former love. He found her, at apparent ease, in a
                    lounging chair, with a newspaper in her hand. She looked at him as he entered
                    almost as a wild animal would look, excited to self?defence, and ready for
                    flight or fight as the movements of the intruder might determine. Leslie came
                    forward to the table which was on one side of her, and there he stood, saying at
                    once in a perfectly calm voice,
                “I am come to demand account from you of the deceit you have practised upon
                    me.”
                “Have I deceived you?” said Laura; “did you believe me?”
                “Yes; a lie like yours there is no defence against. Unsay it.”
                “What am I to say and unsay?”
                “Where is that young girl?”
                
                “Whom do you mean?” said Laura.
                “Elinor Ladylift.”
                Laura laughed. “You speak out. Elinor Ladylift is in the convent of St. Cécile.
                    You heard my brother say so.”
                “Did she at once go there, stay there? did no one ever seek her there? did she
                    take refuge and remain there?”
                “So Lawrence said.”
                “You dare not trifle!” said Leslie, striking the table with his hand, and
                    advancing a step nearer to Laura. “Do you know it of your own knowledge?”
                “I know nothing to the contrary,” said Laura.
                “You acknowledge, then, that your representations were false .......”
                “False!” said Laura.
                “Go on. There was a letter brought to me by yourself. Explain it.”
                “I have often brought you letters,” said Laura.
                “There was a letter purporting to be written by Elinor Ladylift to your cousin
                    Bicester. Was that letter a forgery?”
                
                “It was her writing,” said Laura.
                “What is behind in your meaning? Dare you say she sent it to him? Dare you
                    .....”
                “I did dare, and it answered my purpose,” said Laura; “you believed. I could have
                    laughed at times to think how the great, manly intellect yielded to despised
                    woman.”
                “Laugh! yes,” said Leslie; “that is the very word for perfidy and crime which in
                    due time have lost their covering, and are carrying you to the ruin you have
                    wrought for others.”
                Laura sprang up. “Nay, not so; guilty I have been, but what has made me so?
                    Miserable I may be, but I ventured all for that which I have won—I am yours!—you
                    are mine! In that hope I knew nothing, cared for nothing, except itself.
                    Whatever I have done, you, you Leslie should pardon me, for that for which I
                    perilled my very soul was your love!”
                But Leslie drew back as she approached him. “Love!” he said; “is it by that name
                    you call a vile fancy which was con? tented
                    patiently to destroy life and hope in its object? How nearly you have dragged me
                    to death, how far from happiness. But no more of that. The past has been yours,
                    the present is mine. I care nothing for unravelling the web of your perfidy.
                    Enough that I know all you have said and done is false. Enough. I have borne
                    with you while what you acted passed for true. Now do you bear with
                    whatsoever befalls you, dragged on your own head by your own deed! I have
                    done.”
                He left the room at once. Laura sprang up before he was gone, and called him, but
                    he closed the door and went to his room. Here, like a man who once possessing
                    the amulet that ensured the blessing of his life, and who, dropping it into some
                    profound lake, stands despairingly gazing into the waters; did Leslie stand
                    awhile, horror?stricken at the knowledge of his own fate. All that he had left
                    behind he now saw and knew; all the clouds that had hidden past actions rolled
                    away, and left the view of the sunny land behind him, which he had exchanged for the dreary pestilential region now
                    surrounding him. The horror of his entanglement bewildered him; the thought of
                    all those days and months, wherein reparation for his cruel injustice had been
                    delayed, pressed upon his senses; the choking feeling of distance and alienation
                    wrought so fiercely on him, that of all impossible things the most impossible to
                    his imperious and self?indulged nature was to delay by even another hour to
                    seek, nay, to force an interview with Elinor, leaving the issue of that
                    interview to be what it will.
                Springing out of the first torpor, he took measures at once to leave the Tower.
                    He provided himself with what money was in the house; he thrust his papers and
                    letters into the drawers, and summoning a servant, bade him instantly prepare
                    what was necessary for a journey, and bring it after him to the neighbouring
                    town, whither he himself would proceed at once on foot. To put himself into
                    action was the only relief he could find, and hastily he passed through the hall, and out on his road away, able he
                    knew to conceal his emotion from any one he might casually meet, but not
                    trusting himself either with inaction or with the sight of the woman who had
                    ruined him.
                When joined by his servant, he took charge himself of the portmanteau, sending
                    back the man without message or explanation, and hastened alone with all
                    possible despatch to the coast. Here he took the first conveyance which crossed
                    the sea, and was put ashore at early dawn on the Breton coast, at a village but
                    a few miles from St. Cécile’s nunnery.
                It was Thursday, and he remembered having heard Elinor say that Thursday was the
                    day on which the pensioners were chiefly permitted to receive their visitors. He
                    therefore pressed forward with all haste to add one more chance to those shadowy
                    chances which remained of ever beholding that dear face again, but his heart
                    died within him to think how faint they were; sixteen months’ grief, neglect,
                    Time, what had they done? Was she even there? was she perhaps lying at perpetual rest beneath a
                    reviving turf? or if she lived, was she by this time a professed nun, alive, but
                    dead to him? Could she forgive him? had he not believed accusations which the
                    deceiver herself had thought it incredible to impose upon him? Oh! what mountain
                    piles of sin had he not committed against the gentlest, most charitable, most
                    defenceless of beings! He saw the little low building rising before him with
                    emotion that almost choked his breath. It stood on a common which descended to
                    the sea?shore, terminating in rushes and sand hills; a marshy pool or two
                    glittered in the sun, and some small cows were picking up the coarse herbage
                    under the care of a boy and girl bareheaded and barefooted. The building itself
                    was low, and formed a square, of which the side opposite Leslie was unpierced by
                    windows, and except for one low door at the upper end, it might have been, what
                    Leslie’s gloomy feelings likened it to, a tomb.
                At this door he knocked, and presented a letter he had prepared, entreating
                        per? mission, in her guardian’s name, to
                    speak to Miss Ladylift. The lay sister took it, and returning before long,
                    conducted him to another part of the low, gray square, where she admitted him to
                    the parlour and there left him. There was already a young girl, laughing with a
                    motherly woman, and with a child, who seemed the girl’s sister. Leslie turned to
                    the window, his back to these people, his face therefore not to be seen at once,
                    although he could watch whoever came in at the door. And before any long time,
                    there was the voice he loved so fearfully.
                “Qui me demande?” and Elinor stood there looking at the group within.
                “One not worthy so much as to ask pardon,” said Leslie, turning to her and
                    approaching.
                “Mr. Leslie!” cried Elinor, starting as if a bullet had struck her heart.
                “That’s the last word you said when I last beheld you,” said Leslie; “if I was
                    mad then—if there was a curse upon me, can you forgive me?”
                
                “I forgave you long since,” said Elinor.
                “That is, you would wish me no harm,” said Leslie; “but is that all—is
                    forgiveness only that?”
                “Yes, only that” said Elinor; “but indeed, full and free forgiveness, for though
                    you were more unjust than I understood, you know that, now, or you
                    would not be here. Good?bye.”
                “No! no! no!” said Leslie, taking her hand, and drawing her to the window, while
                    he spoke very low. “It is not all so lost between us. You are to me all that
                    woman can be to man. You have my destiny in your hand; you must hear me.”
                “There is nothing to hear,” said Elinor; “you renounced me, and I found shelter
                    here. Your wife sent me.”
                “I have none,” said Leslie.
                “How! I know from herself that you have married Miss Chanson.”
                “No; there is a fiend who lays claim to me; a serpent stole round me, but I am
                    free!”
                
                “You speak madly,” said Elinor; “I will go. May you be happy! Farewell!”
                “Is that all? you loved me once, Elinor.”
                “I try to forget all the past,” said Elinor. “It is quite gone... Let me go
                    now.”
                “You try? Do you say that? Alas! is it your will never to see me again?”
                She did but bow her head as if in assent, but he felt her trembling hand.
                “Oh, my beautiful! my perfect!” he cried, grasping that hand and trying to look
                    into her eyes; “you love me still! that love is still there. You are too true
                    and good to say ‘No!’ when you cannot but say to yourself ‘It is Yes!”’ Elinor
                    hid her face as far as she could on her own shoulder, the tears ran down her
                    cheeks. “You loved me once,” he repeated.
                “You tried to make me,” said Elinor.
                “ Oh, angel! I did. It was long before your heart gave way; very long before your
                    colour mounted when I came, but it did at last, and you never can forget
                    it.”
                
                A sob broke from Elinor.
                “La pauvre enfant,” said the old mother, who was present; “laissons les!”
                “Mais, ma mère, c’est si joli,” whispered the young pensioner.
                “Fi, donc, Jacqueline! un jour cela t’arrivera à toi, peutêtre. Faut être
                    compatissant,” and the good woman drew away her girls, leaving the room to
                    Leslie and Elinor.
                Leslie drew a chair for her, and sank down before her. “I have been so
                    miserable,” he said, dropping his face on her knees, “I am so—not at this
                    moment, with your precious hand in mine, but if I loose it and am again what I
                    was before I grasped it, I cannot go on living, I must die.”
                “It would be best if we both could die,” said Elinor, “for on earth we must part
                    for ever.”
                “Then you, you—are you happy?”
                “No!” said Elinor, hiding her face and weeping.
                “Alas! and once we were so near it—a word or two was all that was between it and us. I had it in my hand, I let it go. But
                    it is near again, now we are near.”
                “How could you doubt me?” said Elinor; “I learned you thought I
                    could possibly feel regard for one who was not you.”
                “Was I not mad? was I not a fallen spirit, into whose hands an angelic one had
                    been put? But you are here again to save me; it is your destiny to save me.”
                “Do not talk idly; you have chosen your companion; your wife ......”
                “Wife, hush! hush! there is one whom my heart acknowledges—here, this is my
                    lawful wife. That woman is a mere adultress.”
                “You frighten me, Leslie.”
                “Ah! save me from what frightens myself—come with me now. Rise, fly with me. The
                    world is waiting for us outside that open door. We cannot stay in prison; home,
                    paradise, innocence, wait for us there! Come, my own Elinor!”
                Elinor’s eyes raised to his face, reminded him of that day, now two years old,
                        when they before so innocently looked at
                    him, wondering at his meaning.
                “Could I leave my Mother so? Would she allow it?”
                “No, no; but to be happy is our nature. I am good if I am happy, but make me
                    miserable, Elinor, and what crimes lie before me!”
                “Nay,” said Elinor, “we need not be happy, but we must be good.”
                “Are not those two things one,” said Leslie; “if it lie in your power to render a
                    human creature the most blessed being on the earth, would you not do wrong to
                    leave him in his misery? Must not that be wrong?”
                “I cannot tell,” said Elinor; “we must wait—one day, no doubt, we shall be
                    happy.”
                “And will our youth wait for us, will our life wait?”
                “Oh no!” said Elinor, “and I wish, with all my heart I wish, that we were old,
                    and sick, and infirm, for then we should be near the land where I may come to
                    you.”
                
                “Ah Elinor! but should those lands be dreams! Hear me! ......”
                “I cannot, dear Leslie—oh yes! indeed you are dear Leslie—I only
                    know we are parted for ever.” Elinor forcibly rose, while Leslie with her hand
                    in his, detained her, pleading, still more by the agony he suffered than by his
                    words; and at that moment the door opened, and a tall handsome woman, her face
                    bounded by the straight lines of her head?gear, came in, and Elinor at once
                    broke away, and took up her place, pressed close against the Reverend Mother.
                    She whispered a word or two to the young girl, and Elinor instantly stood freely
                    up, and though the tears ran over, spoke out, “God bless you, Leslie! Farewell!”
                    and vanished through the door, from his sight.
                “You have brought her bad news, I fear,” said the Superior.
                “Yes, bad news,” repeated Leslie, mechanically.
                “Poor child! she has need of good. Ever since she came back here so suddenly, she has had a weight at her heart. What sort
                    of people were they, those guardians of hers?”
                “I know scarcely anything about them,” said Leslie.
                “Yet you came from them to her, I understood.”
                “Yes,” said Leslie, “I am acquainted with them, but they are people perfectly
                    indifferent to me.”
                “Do you think anything happened there to make her unhappy? Who visited chiefly at
                    the house?”
                “I knew one, a mere fool,” said Leslie, “he thought himself clever, and was the
                    gull of every female and male idiot that chose to deceive him.”
                “Then he it could not be, whom she regrets.”
                “Does she regret some one?”
                “I cannot tell; her confessor knows; if she have proved the vanity of 
                        worldly
                        worldy
                     affections, I hope it may turn her soul to the holy bridal of the
                    church.”
                “God forbid!” cried Leslie.
                
                “And why, sir? Do you think she has no vocation?”
                “Vocation!” repeated Leslie, hardly knowing what he said.
                “Before she went to England, I thought so too,” said the lady, “but experience of
                    the world’s emptiness and sorrow, often work a change for the better in the
                    heart.”
                “Alas!” said Leslie.
                “There would be a difficulty, of which you are perhaps aware,” said the
                    Superior.
                “Difficulty? yes, no doubt—what is it?”
                “When we have devoted ourselves to our profession, and have no leisure for the
                    works which earn a living, we must have means of subsistence, live as hardly as
                    we will. Therefore those who enter here for a life of devotion must be able to
                    support themselves and others, by contributing to the general stock, or else
                    they must come as menials, which would not do for her ...... but Elinor is so
                    very poor.”
                “Is she poor?” said Leslie, with infinite pity in his voice.
                “She has perhaps ten thousand francs for all
                    her fortune; what you call, she tells me, sixteen pounds a?year.”
                “Oh! my Elinor!” groaned Leslie.
                “With that she boards, and though it is too little, we keep the precious child
                    among us, and she nurses, teaches, works, up to her best strength to make up
                    what is wanted.”
                “Madam,” said Leslie, “your society is most worthy, most deserving, would not a
                    few thousand francs, bestowed on it in her name, secure her more comforts, more
                    ease?”
                “Such a donation might enable her to assume the veil,” said the Superior.
                Leslie shrank as if his hand had found itself on the bag of a nest of
                    hornets.
                “Don’t let her do that, Reverend Mother,” said he; “what is so dangerous as to
                    encourage vows which are not voluntary, or of which the vower may repent? You
                    might have a sin to answer for.”
                “Fear not,” said the Superior, with dignity, “that we need the advice of a
                    stranger in guiding our flock.”
                
                “No, no, I am aware of that—yet I entreat you forbid her to become a nun.”
                “Leave her to us, young man,” said the Superior.
                “I must see her again,” said Leslie.
                “Nay, your interview has already been long.”
                “And write to her.”
                “Give me your letter, if you wish to write, she shall have it.”
                “But if she wishes it, I may return.”
                “If she does not wish it, you cannot.”
                “And you will influence her. Oh! madam, there are miseries in the world, so great
                    that you would pity the very devils whom you hate, for suffering them.”
                “There is a refuge from all,” the Superior began—but Leslie broke away.
                “I can’t hear it now; preach to ease, not to the rack. Let me go,” and he rushed
                    away in a state of mind almost beyond his own control.
                For several days he wandered round the Convent, asking admittance, and still
                    refused, offering rewards to get a letter con?
                    veyed to Elinor, but denied; haunted by her tearful eyes, by her poverty, by her
                    desolation. He was terrified at the possibility of the vows she might contract,
                    and was for ever grasping at those blessings which might have been his and hers,
                    but which were now mere shadows of those real things floating away, further and
                    further into the past. He was fast bound in the meshes, which a woman, a mere
                    woman, had found the means to twine around him, and fiercely did he resent the
                    injury, and gaze sternly at her falsehood and successful deceit. It was in vain
                    he raged against his bonds, which Elinor refused to assist him in evading, and
                    which the hand that fastened them, even if willing, had no power to untie,
                    though it had sought and forced the fatal spell to make them fast. She was his
                    fate; a contemptible, but all powerful agent; a hateful presence which had
                    forced itself upon him, and which held him imprisoned in sight of the felicity
                    he had once grasped, and let go at the false
                    accents of that despicable deceiver.
                Violent were the passions of the strong but fettered man, fierce the hatred of
                    the powerful but baffled intellect; wild was the fury of the man, who believed
                    in but one world of good, and saw the mortal moments passing away, unenjoyed,
                    and irretrievable.
                Out of those hours arose a purpose. The reader sees the man, and knows the deed.
                    From the premises laid before him, he need not indeed have concluded that even
                    that man would do that deed; but since it was told, in 1855, that the husband
                    killed the wife, so now, in 1860, it is explained why he killed
                    her.
            
            THE END.
        
    
