
     ----CITATION----
        Corelli, Marie (1855-1924). The Modern Marriage Market. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 103 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (September 24, 1998).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7111
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    The Modern Marriage Market 
                
                BY Marie Corelli 
                    Lady Jeune 
                    Flora Annie Steel 
                    Susan, Countess of Malmesbury 
                With Portraits
                
                    London 
                    Hutchinson & Co.
                        PATERNOSTER ROW
                
                Mdcccxcvii
            
            
            
                AUTHORS
                
                    MARIE CORELLI 9
                    LADY JEUNE 57
                    FLORA ANNIE STEEL 97
                    SUSAN, COUNTESS OF MALMESBURY 135
                
            
        
        
        
            
                By MARIE CORELLI
                
                I
                AMONG the many ages or periods in this world's existence,—ages and
                    periods which have been separated and classified, according to the fancy of
                    historians, as the “Dark,” the “Mythical,” the “Classical,” or the
                    “Mediæval,”—it is doubtful whether there has ever been one which has so richly
                    merited the pre-eminent and prominent label of “Sham” writ across it as this,
                    our own blessed and enlightened time. If any
                    pride can be taken in the fact, let those who will be proud. For never in all
                    the passing pageant and phantasmagoria of history did a greater generation of
                    civilised hypocrites cumber the face of the globe than cumber it to-day,—never
                    was the earth so oppressed with the weight of polite lying,—never were there
                    such crowds of civil masqueraders, cultured tricksters, and social humbugs, who,
                    though admirable as tricksters and humbugs, are wholly contemptible as men and
                    women. Truth is at a discount,—and if one should utter it, the reproachful faces of one's so-called “friends”
                    show how shocked they are at meeting with anything honest. We are drifting our
                    days away in a condition of false luxury,—of over-ripe civilisation,—which has
                    bred in us that apathetic inertia which is always a premonitory symptom of fatal
                    disease. If one should talk to us of heroic actions—even the simplest—our
                    befuddled minds connect them vaguely with a necessity for the police or the law
                    courts,—if we should hear of a bold man's attempt to scale the heights of a
                    seeming too lofty ambition, we express our
                    sickly belief that he will fail,—and if he succeeds, we are, in the same sickly
                    spirit, more disappointed than gratified. We cannot abide boldness. We are too
                    weak in our nerves to stand the warm and splendid fervours of enthusiasm. We
                    shudder—we cry—we whine at things that threaten to disturb our slothful
                    self-indulgence,—our eating—our drinking—our sleeping in soft beds, guarded from
                    draught and noise—our dear, pet vices—our morbid egotism—our blind, idiot
                    vanity: we cannot endure troublous emotions—the great stress and storm of heart which moulds noble character. Away
                    with such! We cannot be expected to exert ourselves more than is absolutely
                    necessary for the feeding of our bodies and the carrying of them about,
                    carefully, to such places as may seem adequate for their entertainment and
                    further nourishment. I am not speaking of the “millions underground,”—the vast,
                    toiling, silent millions of unregarded and unrewarded workers, who labour out of
                    sight as it were and with such ominous speechlessness,—the speechlessness being
                    only for a time. I am addressing you,—women,
                    most of you,—who read the pages of this popular magazine* because you expect you will find
                    something therein to minister to pleasure or vanity,—something in the way of
                    advice of dress or the toilette, or the
                    thousand-and-one little fascinations wherewith you hope to entrap the often
                    silly souls of men,—not because you want to be told where you fail in the very
                    mission and intention of Womanhood. Some of you are sincere enough, no doubt, in
                    the wish to do the best with * This article, and those which follow, appeared in
                            The Lady's Realm, 1897. the responsibilities invested in you: but “wishing to
                    do” is one thing,—and “doing” is another. Most women of Society find it more
                    than difficult to carry out the good intentions with which they have perhaps
                    begun their careers; and the more exalted their position, the less, as a rule,
                    are they able to withstand the temptations, follies, and hypocrisies which
                    surround them. Follies, temptations, and hypocrisies surround in a greater or
                    less degree all women, whether in Society or out of it,—and we are none of us
                    angels, though to their credit be it said, that
                    some men still think us so. Some men still make “angels” out of us in spite of
                    our cycling mania,—our foolish “clubs,” where we do nothing at all,—our rough
                    games at football and cricket, our general throwing to the winds of all dainty
                    feminine reserve, delicacy, and modesty,—and we alone are to blame if we shatter
                    their ideals and sit down by choice in the mud when they would have placed us on
                    thrones. It is our fault, not theirs. We have willed it so. Many of us are more
                    “mannish” than womanly; we are more inclined to laugh at and make mock of a man's courtesy and reverence
                    than we are to be flattered by it. The result is that nowadays we are married,
                    both men and women alike, for what we have, and not for what we
                        are.
                It is one of our many hypocrisies to pretend we do not see things that are
                    plainly put before us every day, and also to assume a fastidious disgust and
                    horror when told of certain “barbarisms” still practised in Europe, barbarisms
                    which we consider we have, in our state of ultra-civilisation, fortunately
                    escaped. One of these “barbaric” institutions
                    which moves us to shudder gracefully and turn up the whites of our eyes, is
                    slavery. “Britons never, never shall,” we say. British women shall never, for
                    example, stand stripped in the market-place to be appraised and labelled at a
                    price, and purchased by a sensualist and ruffian for so much money down. No
                    British man shall ever stand with bound hands and manacled feet, shamed and
                    contemptible in his own eyes, waiting till some luxurious wanton of the world,
                    with more cash than modesty, buys him with her millions to be her
                        fetch-and-carry slave till death releases
                    him from the unnatural bondage. These things are done in Stamboul. True.
                    Stamboul is barbaric. What of London? What of the “season,” when women are as
                    coolly “brought out” to be sold as any unhappy Armenian girl that ever shuddered
                    at the lewd gaze of a Turkish tyrant? What of the mothers and fathers who force
                    their children thus into the open market? Come—face the thing out—don't put it
                    away or behind you as a matter too awkward and difficult of discussion. It is an
                    absolute grim fact that in England, women—those
                    of the upper classes, at any rate—are not to-day married, but bought for a
                    price. The high and noble intention of marriage is entirely lost sight of in the
                    scheming, the bargaining, and the pricing.
                What is marriage? Many of you have, I think, forgotten. It is not
                    the church, the ritual, the blessing of the clergyman, or the ratifying and
                    approving presence of one's friends and relations at the ceremony,—still less is
                    it a matter of “settlements” and expensive millinery. It is the taking of a
                    solemn vow before the Throne of the Eternal,—a
                    vow which declares that the man and woman concerned have discovered in each
                    other his and her true mate,—that they feel life is alone valuable and worth
                    living in each other's company,—that they are prepared to endure trouble,
                    poverty, pain, sickness, death itself, provided they may only be together,—and
                    that all the world is a mere grain of dust in worth as compared to the exalted
                    passion which fills their souls and moves them to become one in flesh as well as
                    one in spirit. Nothing can make marriage an absolutely sacred thing except the great love, combined with the pure
                    and faithful intention, of the human pair involved. They have to realise first
                    of all that a God exists; and that before that God, Whom they solemnly
                    acknowledge and believe in, they are One.
                What has the cash-box to do with this? The reply will be that in order to live,
                    one must have the wherewithal for living. Quite so. But then, if it be once
                    fully realised that there is a Supreme Creator of things, to Whom we are
                    answerable for the breaking of any of His laws, we shall understand that no two human beings have a right to share each
                    other's lives at all, if the result of such sharing should be to drag each
                        other down. Marriage is intended to uplift—to consecrate—to
                    inspire,—and while these noble duties cannot altogether be properly fulfilled if
                    extreme poverty bars the way, and starvation looks in at the door, it is not at
                    all necessary that the married pair should be so grossly and vulgarly wealthy as
                    to be free of every shadow of difficulty. Shadows of difficulty show best where
                    love's sunshine falls. We are never as strong,
                    as sweet, or as true as we might be if we lack the divine difficulties which
                    nerve us to fresh endeavour. It is as easy—perhaps easier—to be happy on five
                    hundred a year, as on five thousand, and a study of the faces of those who
                    possess a hundred thousand a year will move us more to compassion than envy.
                I know an artist who lives on the Island of Capri,—a perfectly happy man. He
                    earns about one hundred pounds per annum by painting charming little studies of
                    the beauties of the island, and disposing of them whenever he can to chance
                    visitors. He is a gentleman by birth, breeding,
                    and education,—he is essentially one in manners, and excels in the almost lost
                    art of conversation. He is passionately in love with his wife,—a pretty, coaxing
                    little creature of the fair Sicilian type,—and he adores his son, a sturdy small
                    person of three years, whose exquisite baby beauty is the delight of every
                    inhabitant of the place. Nature surrounds the little trio with her loveliest
                    scenery—the melting charm of sea and sky and island picturesqueness is theirs to
                    enjoy from every window of their flower-wreathed habitation, and they crave for
                    nothing more than they possess. “We love each
                    other,” is the simple secret of the idyllic life they lead; and when you have
                    been at one of the merry little Bohemian suppers which the artist often gives to
                    friends coming over from Naples to Sorrento,—when in the warmth of the Italian
                    night the windows are set wide open to let the white moon light up with her full
                    Southern brilliance the unpretentious “feast” of luscious fruit and genuine
                    wine, and your fair hostess leans against the rose-twined porch, softly playing
                    her mandolin in subdued accompaniment to the gay songs of her guests,—you begin
                    to think you have found something like the lost
                    paradise,—which, after all, was only a paradise just so long as the human beings
                    in it were content to obey their Maker's commandment. Beyond that commandment
                    lay the forbidden tree,—the sting of the serpent-devil, and afterwards
                    distrust—mutual reproach and misery.
                It is the same now as it was then—the old Biblical legend can be fitted to
                    ourselves every day and every hour of the day. God's laws exist,—and chiefest of
                    them all is the Law of Love. Twist that great mandate into a decree of Mammon,
                    and you have blotched with crime the bright
                    face of the universe. The artist of Capri is happier than many a millionaire,
                    and a hundred times better-looking than most. Nature has done her best for him
                    in all respects,—has given him a fine face and figure, a fearless look, superb
                    health, and complete enjoyment of life,—what more does any one want out of the
                    vast storehouse of creation?
                It is what we are all fighting and struggling for—life and the enjoyment of life:
                    this man has it on a simple hundred pounds a year. And if another man as good,
                    as handsome, as simple- hearted, and as worthy
                    of respect, were to ask one of our modern young Englishwomen to-day to try and
                    love him on that income, she would find her heart singularly
                    impervious to his wooing, depend upon it! If he suggested living in some lovely
                    nook of the world, where life is cheaply and easily maintained, such as Capri,
                    she would begin to mope at the mere idea of the “dulness” involved—and why?
                    Because Love is not sufficient for her. Because in the rush of our time we are
                    trampling sweet emotions and true passions under foot, and marriages are seldom
                    the result of affection nowadays,—they are
                    merely the carrying out of a settled scheme of business. Mothers teach their
                    daughters to marry for a “suitable establishment”: fathers, rendered desperate
                    as to what they are to do with their sons in the increasing struggle for life
                    and the incessant demand for luxuries which are not by any means actually
                    necessary to that life, say, “Look out for a woman with money.” Heirs to a great
                    name and title sell their birthrights for a mess of American dollar-pottage,—and
                    it is a very common every-day sight to see some Christian virgin sacrificed on
                    the altar of matrimony to a money-lending,
                    money-grubbing son of Israel.
                Bargain and sale,—sale and bargain,—it is the whole raison d'être of the “season,”—the balls, the dinners, the
                    suppers, the parties to Hurlingham and Ascot. Even on the dear old Thames with
                    its delicious nooks, fitted for pure romance and heart betrothal, the clatter of
                    Gunter's luncheon-dishes and the popping of Benoist's champagne-corks remind the
                    hungry gypsies who linger near such scenes of river revelry that there is not
                    much sentiment about—only plenty of money being wasted. Here, for instance, is a little river-study taken from life:—
                Time: late evening. Scene: Cookham. Sky-effect: moonrise. Dramatis personæ: He and She, lolling each in a
                    deck-chair on a luxuriously fitted house-boat.
                
                    HE:
                    I heard a lot this season about the way you were going on with that poor
                        devil of a So-and-So,—people said you were fond of him, dontcherknow.
                
                
                    SHE 
                    (casually):
                    Did they? So I was. Awfully fond. But he hadn't got any oof-bird.
                
                
                    HE:
                    Oh! Then I suppose he's “off”?
                
                
                    SHE:
                    Off? I should think so! Why—(this with deep contempt) he's become a
                            digger.
                
                
                    HE
                    (laughing):
                    Costume will suit him down to the ground. Rather good-looking fellow—fine
                        figure and all that—jolly sort of chap. I say, then, if he's “off” I'm
                        on—eh?
                
                
                    SHE:
                    If you like. I told you it would be all right when your governor died.
                        Couldn't settle up till then. He might have lived ever so long.
                
                
                    HE:
                    So he might. But he hasn't. He's gone, sure enough. Then it's a tie?
                
                
                    SHE:
                    It's a tie. No—don't kiss me—I don't feel like it.
                
                
                
                    HE 
                    (chuckling):
                    Don't you? Well, I suppose you have got to be taken in the humour. I don't
                        feel like it either, now I come to think of it.
                
                
                    SHE:
                    I am quite sure you don't. It's so idiotic, you know,
                
                
                    HE:
                    I bet you kissed the digger fellow. Come, didn't you?
                
                
                    SHE:
                    I may have done. I don't remember. Anyhow, it isn't your business. I want
                        some ices.
                
                
                    HE:
                    Waiter! Ices! And a brandy-and-soda!
                
                (Slow music. Song by nigger-minstrels—“Won't yer ketch 'im when
                    yer sees 'im.”)
                [CURTAIN.
                
                This kind of wooing is the way Mammon teaches his sons and daughters to jest with
                    the most divine emotions of life,—and the spirit of fin
                        de siècle cynicism and mockery pervades all the preliminaries of
                    marriage and marriage itself, to work dire results of discontent and
                    wretchedness hereafter. For Nature will not be baulked of her rights. She gave
                    us brains wherewith to think—hearts wherewith to feel—emotions to respond to
                    every touch of human tenderness and sympathy—minds to educate in such wise that
                    they should be able to grasp and realise all the dear and holy responsibilities of life; and when we will neither think nor
                    feel, nor respond, nor be educated, nor realise what we were made for, she takes
                    her vengeance upon us—and an appalling one it sometimes is. There can be nothing
                    more hideous, more like a foretaste of hell itself, than the life-to-life
                    position of a man and woman who have been hustled into matrimony, or rather, as
                    I prefer to put it, sold to each other for so many thousands per annum, and who,
                    when the wedding-fuss is over, and the feminine “pictorials” have done gushing about the millinery of the occasion, find
                    themselves alone together, without a single sympathy in common,—with nothing but
                    the chink of gold and the rustle of bank-notes for their heart-music,—and with a
                    barrier of steadily-increasing repulsion and disgust rising between them every
                    day.
                And this is what happens in nine cases out of ten in fashionable modern
                    matrimony. “A marriage has been arranged” is a common phrase of newspaper
                    parlance,—and it has one advantage over most newspaper forms of speech—namely,
                        that of being strictly and literally true.
                    A marriage is “arranged” as a matter of convenience or social interest; lawyers
                    draft settlements and conclude the sale,—and a priest of the Most High God is
                    called in to bless the bargain. But it is nevertheless a bargain,—a trafficking
                    in human bodies and souls, as open and as shameless as any similar scene in
                    Stamboul.
                And yet there is liberty in our land if we will only avail ourselves
                    of the glorious privilege. Women are free to assert their modesty, their sense
                    of right, their desire for truth and purity, if
                    they only will. Is it too much to ask of them that they should refuse to be
                    stripped to the bosom and exposed for sale in the modern drawing-rooms of the
                    “season”? Is it too much to ask that, in their natural and fitting desire to be
                    suitably wedded, they should look for men rather than money,—love rather than an
                    “establishment,”—mutual sympathy and understanding rather than so much heritable
                    property in houses and lands? And may not it even be suggested that men should
                    be manly enough to refuse to set themselves forth in the market as “Heir to the estate of So-and-So, worth
                    so much in hard cash” or “Only lineal descendant of the Earl of
                    So-and-So,—anxious to sell title, with body and soul attached to it, to any
                    woman who can give the adequate millions necessary for immediate purchase”? A
                    man who marries a woman for her money only is really one of the most despicable
                    objects in existence. He who by natural law was intended to be the supporter,
                    becomes the supported,—he who by every proud prerogative of manhood is formed to
                    be the conqueror and 
                        pro-
                        protector
                     tector, is tamed and tied like a
                    feeble nursling to a woman's apron-string, he loses the right to exert his
                    independence, and must submit to be henpecked, “nagged at,” or else treated with
                    a callous indifference, and sometimes an infinite contempt.
                The woman who marries for money is quite as blameworthy, and is likely to find
                    her position equally as aggravating, only in another way. The man who has the
                    “chinks” will never throw her poverty at her as a fault in the blunt and coarse
                    terms which many a wealthy woman uses to a dependent husband,—but he will involuntarily show her, by a
                    thousand little unmistakable signs, that he knows he has bought her,—and even in
                    the very lavishness of his gifts to her she will gradually come to realise the
                    “position” she holds with regard to him—namely, one of social dummy, household
                    figure-ornament,—while he, free as air, amuses himself with other women, and
                    soothes any pricking of his conscience by the reflection that after all, as his
                    wife, she has everything she wants in the way of dress and jewels, food and
                    firing, and that, in all the necessary items of
                    sustenance and comfort, he has done his duty by her.
                The real fact of the matter is that marriage is nothing more nor less than a
                    crime if it is entered upon without that mutual supreme attraction and deep love
                    which makes the union sacred. It is a selling of body into slavery,—it is a
                    dragging down of souls into impurity. The passion of love is a natural law,—a
                    necessity of being,—and if a woman gives herself to a man in marriage without
                    that love truly and vitally inspiring her, she will in time find that the
                    “natural law” will have its way, and attract
                    her to some other than her lawful husband, and drag her steadily down through
                    the ways of sin to perdition.
                I am addressing myself especially to women. In a woman's life one
                    love should suffice. She cannot, constituted as she is, honestly give herself to
                    more than one man. And she should be certain—absolutely, sacredly, solemnly
                    certain—that out of all the world that one man is indeed her pre-elected lover,
                    her chosen mate,—that never could she care for any other hand than his to caress
                    her beauty,—never for any other kiss than his
                    to rest upon her lips,—and that without him life is but a half-circle, waiting
                    completion.
                How much of this kind of “certainty” enters into the “arrangements” of a
                    fashionable marriage? How many women, as they pass up to the altar in all the
                    glory of their bridal finery, are actually proud and happy to take the vows of
                    love and fidelity? Very few. Yet it should be a proud moment for
                    any woman; it should be the height of her life's triumph to submit to the
                    mastery of love. Only, unfortunately, it is seldom this divine mastery of love
                        which dominates her; it is a weak compound
                    of toleration and resignation, mixed up with pounds, shillings, and pence,—a
                    farce of society fuss and feigning, in which poor Love gets crowded out
                    altogether, and hastily spreads his wings for flight. He is the last of all the
                    mythical gods to be tempted or cajoled by lawyers and settlements, wedding-cake
                    and perishable millinery. His domain is Nature, and the heart of humanity,—and
                    the gifts he can bestow on those who meet him in the true spirit are marvellous
                    and priceless indeed. The exquisite joys he can teach,— the fine sympathies,—the delicate emotions,—the
                    singular method in which he will play upon two lives like separate harps, and
                    bring them into resounding tune and harmony, so that all the world shall seem
                    full of luscious song,—this is one way of love's system of education. But this
                    is not all: he can so mould the character, temper the will, and strengthen the
                    heart, as to make his elected disciples endure the bitterest sorrows
                    bravely,—perform acts of heroic self-sacrifice, and attain the most glorious
                    heights of ambition; for, as the venerable Thomas à Kempis tells us, “Love is a great thing, yea, a great and thorough
                    good; by itself it makes everything that is heavy light, and it bears evenly all
                    that is uneven. For it carries a burden which is no burden, and makes everything
                    that is bitter sweet and tasteful. Though weary it is not tired, though pressed
                    it is not straitened, though alarmed it is not confounded, but as a lively flame
                    and burning torch it forces its way upward and securely passes through all.”
                Is not such divine happiness well worth attaining? Is the cash-box better? And
                    will the possession of jewels, gold, and
                    estates, be of any avail as consolation in the hours of pain and loss? Think
                    well about it, fair women, before deciding your destinies; and if you are
                    inclined to shudder at the way in which your human sisters are sold in Stamboul,
                    put a stop to the preparations you are making for selling yourselves. The London
                    market will be open to you in May, and the bidders will assemble as usual. They
                    will consider your value in face, figure, skin, eyes, hair, and general
                    complexion. They will note in slang parlance as to whether you are “well-groomed” (
                        i.e.
                        id est
                    , well-dressed), just as they note the condition of their thoroughbred
                    mares. They will look at you with the egotistical tolerance of men who have
                    money and know that they are worth marrying. Your pretty ways, your little
                    smiles, your blushes, your graceful attitudes, will be discussed at the clubs
                    and restaurants in various forms, as, “She knows how to do it,” or, “She is
                    laying a neat trap for me,” or, “I expect I shall have to give in to her in the
                    long run,” and certain other chuckling assertions of a like kind; and if you come up to the expectations of the
                    Jews or the Gentiles, who are thus estimating your qualities, you will be
                    sold.
                That is, if you choose to be marketable commodities. It rests with you. You are
                    not bound to listen to one of your own sex who asks you, as I do, in plain words
                        not to sell yourselves. But if you do listen, albeit only for a
                    moment, I shall not have written quite in vain. I want you to refuse to make
                    your bodies and souls the traffickable material of vulgar huckstering. I want
                    you to give yourselves
                    ungrudgingly, fearlessly, without a price or any condition whatsoever, to the
                    men you truly love, and abide by the results. If love is love indeed, no regret
                    can be possible. But be sure it is love,—the real passion, that
                    elevates you above all sordid and mean considerations of self—that exalts you to
                    noble thoughts and nobler deeds,—that keeps you faithful to the one vow, and
                    moves you to take a glorious pride in preserving that vow's immaculate
                    purity;—be sure it is all this, for if it is not all this, you are making a
                    mistake, and you are ignorant of the very
                    beginnings of love. Try to fathom your own hearts on this vital question; try to
                    feel, to comprehend, to learn the responsibilities invested in womanhood,—and
                    never stand before God's altar to accept a blessing on your marriage if you know
                    in your own inmost soul that it is no marriage at all in the true sense of the
                    word, but merely a question of convenience and sale. To do such a deed is the
                    vilest blasphemy—a blasphemy in which you involve the very priest who pronounces
                    the futile benediction. The saying “God will not be mocked” is a true one; and least of all will He consent to
                    listen to, or ratify such a mockery as a marriage-vow sworn before Him in utter
                    falsification and misprisal of His chiefest commandment—Love. It is a wicked and
                    wilful breaking of the law and is never by any chance allowed to remain
                    unpunished.
            
            
            
                By LADY JEUNE
                
                II
                THE inevitable controversy as to the improvement or deterioration of one
                    age over another still continues, and no comparison is ever satisfying. It is so
                    easy to generalise and so difficult, when we particularise, to arrive at any
                    accurate deduction. Each age has its vices and weaknesses, which alter according
                    to the condition and influences which are then existing; and to say that one
                    time is worse or better because the particular
                    characteristics we contemplate have altered or disappeared, is entirely
                    misleading. An idyllic life of peace and contentment, away from the storm and
                    stress of life, is theoretically perfect, but it is perfectly possible for such
                    a life to develop the worst qualities of mankind. Egotism, self-indulgence,
                    indolence, and a thousand other weaknesses might ride rampant under such
                    conditions; while in an existence where luxury, wealth, and pleasure appeared to
                    be the sole ambition, some of the noblest virtues of humanity might exist.
                    Therefore, in generalising and condemning the
                    weaknesses of the age in which we live, we are apt to form too hasty conclusions
                    of the life which we see around us, and in condemning its weaknesses to lose
                    sight altogether of the higher and better part which lies close beside.
                Human nature is stronger than all the forces and influences opposed to it, and it
                    does not alter materially, though conditions of life, and changes, modify it. We
                    are always inclined to be pessimistic in comparing the time in which we live
                    with the past. We are always being told that we were once more virtuous and brave, more simple and self-reliant; that our
                    women were more beautiful, our men more Spartan and courageous; that modern
                    civilisation, and the gigantic changes which the nineteenth century has
                    witnessed, have demoralised and degraded us; and that the great qualities which
                    inspired the makers of our Empire have died away in an effete and worn-out
                    civilisation.
                If we were to admit the accuracy of all the conclusions at which the pessimists
                    arrive, it would still be possible to prove that a “remnant” remains,
                    sufficiently pure and wholesome to mitigate
                    greatly the evils that undoubtedly exist; but we maintain—and it is easy to
                    prove our contention—that the pessimists are wrong, and that not only are we not
                    worse in the main than our forefathers, but that our times have called into
                    existence qualities of the highest nature, which could be only produced by the
                    particular conditions of to-day.
                It is impossible, in the complex life of our time, that there should not be a
                    large and powerful element in society whose influence is not altogether for
                    good. The great wealth and luxury of to-day must produce effects which are demoralising and weakening to the characters of
                    those who live under their influence; but every age has had the same evil,
                    though perhaps to a less intensified degree. Where there is great wealth there
                    must be great extravagance and display; but if only controlled and properly
                    directed, its effect may benefit the community.
                A demand for luxuries means employment to many poor people. Large entertainments,
                    with all their accessories—smart clothes, carriages, and all the adjuncts of
                    wealth which modern moralists condemn—have, after all, some advantages; and those who live in London and work
                    amongst the poor can truthfully testify to the vast difference in their comfort
                    and prosperity when a season is a good one, and to the severe pinch of poverty
                    when the spending power of the wealthy classes is curtailed. Therefore, while
                    deploring and admitting evils which are the inevitable result of an age of
                    luxury and expenditure, one cannot help feeling that the outburst against them
                    is sometimes exaggerated, because people are too apt to jump to hasty
                    conclusions from not carefully analysing the criticisms they make.
                
                A very powerful indictment against the evils of modern Society appears in these
                    pages from the pen of one of the most popular writers of to-day—one who has
                    studied human nature, and knows much of the life of to-day; and while admitting
                    that some of her criticisms are accurate, we think she is a little carried away
                    by a righteous feeling of indignation at some things which belong to every age
                    and society, and are not in themselves a definite sign of the decadence of this.
                    It is very easy to write the word “Sham” across this age, and by a free and hasty generalisation to condemn it—to make
                    it seem as if courage, heroism, and all other manly qualities have disappeared
                    in a “slothful self-indulgence,” and, that the aim of our life is to shut our
                    eyes and ears to everything save the gratification of the lowest desires of
                    human nature. We fail to see any signs of such a decadence when we know that for
                    every post of danger and responsibility there are thousands of men ready to
                    volunteer, and glad to serve their country, giving their life for the pay that a
                    well-paid artisan would not look at. In the daily record of the papers we read of acts of heroism and self-sacrifice which show
                    no indication of a decay of the heroism and bravery which have been the glorious
                    characteristics of our race. In great shipwrecks, in the terrible naval
                    disasters of the last few years, the same cool, heroic courage has been
                    displayed, not only by the officers, but the men—as, for instance, when the
                        Victoria was sinking. The taking of Chitral, the march on
                    Dongola, are incidents in our history just as glorious, though of less
                    importance than some in more well-known military expeditions. They all prove that when the necessity arises England
                    can send her sons to fight her enemies with the same confidence as of old,
                    knowing that they will prove themselves as worthy as the veterans of Trafalgar
                    and Waterloo.
                Our vast colonial empire, which is the growth of this “effete” century, is surely
                    an unanswerable argument to the cry that we have become unable to hold our own
                    in the council of the nations. Wherever new fields of enterprise and
                    colonisation are opened, there English men and women are found ready to people
                    them; and it is because they possess the
                    qualities which we are now told are in a state of decay that they succeed where
                    every other people fail. It seems to us, in this age of independence, that there
                    never was a time when self-reliance and individuality were so pre-eminently the
                    characteristics of a people; and that, so far from having sunk into a condition
                    of decay, we are as ready as ever to emulate the deeds of our sires.
                In the history of any Western country the influence which women exercise must
                    largely affect its destinies: where the women are strong and virtuous a country must prosper in just the same
                    proportion as it will decay if they are the reverse. The change that has come
                    over the lives of women in England during the last thirty years is so remarkable
                    that it cannot but have produced enormous differences in English life and
                    society; and opinions will always differ as to whether it is beneficial or the
                    reverse. For our part we have no hesitation in saying it is all for good. There
                    may be excrescences and anomalies which the large measure of independence women
                    now enjoy have created, and which time will modify, and has, indeed, already modified. But when we contrast
                    the position of women now with that of thirty years ago, the change is surely
                    for good. If the sexes were equally distributed, and every woman could become a
                    wife and follow the natural career which nature intended for her, the changes
                    which so many deplore would perhaps never have come—or certainly much more
                    tardily. But in a community where the female element is largely in excess of the
                    male, and where modern thought and education have raised them intellectually on
                    a more equal basis, it was not possible for
                    women to remain the colourless, dependent creatures of the past. And as they
                    have become emancipated they have more or less chosen their own careers, and
                    thousands of women are now living proofs of the advantages of a change that has
                    given them an aim in life which they can pursue successfully.
                In our very complex state of society there must necessarily be great varieties
                    and differences in the lives of the different sets into which so large a society
                    must be divided, and we cannot deny that there are aspects of modern life which
                    we deplore. Whether such conditions are worse
                    than formerly must ever be an undecided question; but that we have done with the
                    coarseness and brutality of the last century no one will deny. Where there are
                    great riches, a high standard of comfort and luxury, and a moneyed class, there
                    must be extravagance and less moral restraint than in a more primitive state,
                    where the conditions of existence are harder and the life is more simple. An
                    existence such as Marie Corelli tells us of is poetical and idyllic to the
                    highest degree; but in our country, and under the conditions of modern life, it
                    is an impossible one. It does not, however,
                    necessarily follow that a life equally pure and happy is impossible in our
                    modern Babylon. “Love in a cottage” is a delicious thing, but the wherewithal to
                    provide the cottage and its accessories is an absolute necessity. The higher
                    standard of comfort which modern society requires, without any superfluities,
                    makes marriage more difficult than formerly, not because there is not the same
                    capacity for affection and self-denial among us, but because the whole
                    conditions of our life have changed and are still changing; and it must be evident to the most Spartan of us that,
                    however simple and rugged may be our theories, it is an impossibility to carry
                    them out in their entirety. The modern mother is not the heartless, selfish
                    creature described to us because she shrinks from letting her daughter link her
                    life with some one (however deep her attachment to him may be) who cannot at
                    least provide her with the necessaries of life. We think that Marie Corelli is
                    mistaken in drawing the picture she has done of the “modern marriage market.”
                    The same reproaches have always been heaped on Society which she makes; women have always been accused of
                    sacrificing their daughters for money, for the sake of the jewels and
                    settlements of a rich husband; and the cry of the “slave market” is as old as
                    the world itself. But is it true? Or rather, is not the accusation so grossly
                    exaggerated as to be as false as if there were no foundation for its existence?
                    There are, and always have been, women who are sufficiently worldly to allow and
                    even to persuade their daughters to marry for the material advantages which a
                    rich husband can provide; but that such women represent the average mother is an accusation we distinctly deny. There may
                    be circumstances surrounding some marriages which lend colour to the suggestion
                    that girls have sold themselves for money; but such cases are exceptions, and
                    because some exist it is false to affirm that all are the same.
                In the same way we object and protest most strongly against Marie Corelli's
                    statement that girls are “brought out” in the “season” to be sold as “any
                    unhappy Armenian girl”—a statement as false as it is ridiculous. Does she really
                    believe that the bright, happy, pretty girls we
                    see in London ball-rooms all go there for the purpose of exhibiting their charms
                    to the richest and most desirable suitor? Does she think that every girl starts
                    in life with the avowed and open intention of making the best of her looks for
                    such a purpose? We say that such an idea is monstrous; absolutely false of the
                    girls, and equally untrue and unjust as regards their mothers. In the heart of
                    every girl lies the hope that some day she may marry the man she loves, and, in
                    joining her life with his, taste the sweet joys of life together; but the
                    thought is one quite apart and outside any of
                    the motives which make her wish to go into the world, or add to the enjoyment of
                    her season.
                Girls enjoy society because of the fun, the gaiety, the change, and the wholesome
                    excitement which a season gives them, and not because in the distance they see
                    the millions and the millionaire they are supposed to be hunting. Take any
                    young, wholesome-minded girl with a happy home, and suggest such a thing, and
                    see her indignant denial of an accusation the thought of which had never
                    darkened the pleasure of her life. If we watch
                    girls in ball-rooms or in following any of their amusements, listen to their
                    hearty laugh, and see the bright, happy expression of their faces, and the zest
                    with which they throw themselves into all they do, can we honestly say that we
                    see a trace of the demoralising influences which Marie Corelli tells us are
                    sapping all that is pure and sweet in their nature? If such an accusation as
                    Marie Corelli's were true, it certainly needs more confirmation than the facts
                    she brings forward to prove it, and our experience leads us to regard it from an
                    entirely opposite point of view. We agree with
                    her that women, to use her own expression, are much more “mannish” than
                    formerly; and that has grown out of the greater freedom and independence they
                    now enjoy. It may have taken away some of the dependence and softness of women,
                    but it has given them a strong individuality, strong opinions, and an
                    independence which makes anything like maternal coercion an impossibility. Girls
                    think and act for themselves, and have their own most distinct ideas on all
                    subjects; and any mother would find it very difficult—nay, almost impossible— to force her daughter to marry a man solely
                    because he was hugely rich. With a gentle, docile nature, without much strength
                    of character or will, persuasion, or even stronger measures, might influence
                    them; but the majority of girls could not be forced to such a step. Nay, we go
                    still further, and say that there are, we believe, very few women who would urge
                    their daughters to marry a man they did not love.
                Girls may marry hastily, perhaps marry too young, without knowing their own
                    minds; but in these days no girl is forced into
                    a marriage that is repugnant to her because her mother wishes it, and there are
                    few women wicked and cruel enough to blast the life of their child by acting as
                    Marie Corelli would have us believe. Every year the increased independence which
                    girls enjoy, and the feeling of the time in which they live, make them less
                    anxious to marry, or to marry so early; and their position with regard to men
                    and the feeling of camaraderie which exists
                    between the young of both sexes do not tend to increase a girl's desire to take
                    a husband. Marie Corelli says truly, “Nature
                    will not be baulked of her rights; she gives us brains to think, hearts
                    wherewith to feel, emotions to respond to every touch of human tenderness and
                    sympathy, minds to educate in such wise they should be able to grasp and realise
                    all the dear and holy responsibilities of life.” Because this is so, it is also
                    true that modern thought and education make mothers realise those
                    responsibilities with regard to their children, and so refrain from using any
                    influence except what tends to their happiness; and the same influences also
                    make girls understand the profanation and
                    wickedness of a loveless marriage.
                We can hardly believe that the little sketch of a waterside proposal which Marie
                    Corelli gives us is descriptive of any class of society. We cannot, of course,
                    presume to guess how the question is asked or answered, the question that is old
                    as time and yet sweet and fresh as the spring flowers; but we are certain Marie
                    Corelli does not know either, and we cannot suppose she expects us to take the
                    two actors in her little comedy as typical of English life and manners; for however barren a marriage may be of any
                    sentiment or passion, we hardly think it possible a proposal of marriage could
                    be conveyed in such language or accepted in a like fashion. We cannot help
                    feeling that Marie Corelli generalises too much, and takes a class, and a very
                    small class, as typical of the whole of English Society.
                If what she says is the case, the society in which we live is indeed corrupt and
                    rotten to the core, and the end to which it is tending must be utterly
                    disastrous. But we are sure she is wrong—wrong in her facts and her conclusions. The mass of English men and women
                    are as strong and morally pure as their predecessors. There never was an age
                    when the standard of life was higher, or the obligations and responsibilities of
                    wealth and position were more recognised, than the present.
                In selecting a very small clique as typical of the whole of English Society,
                    Marie Corelli has overstated her case; and if we look around us, among the
                    people to whom we belong and to the wider circle of English homes, we see that
                    she is mistaken in every respect. There may be
                    people whose life and example are bad; that we do not deny: but we say that the
                    whole of English Society is essentially pure, and the standard of life and
                    morality a high one. There may be cases where a mariage
                        de raison is the only alternative left to a woman, and there may
                    be women who, from circumstances of poverty or necessity, are driven to marry
                    men with whom they are not in love; but all these are exceptions, and the
                    ordinary English marriage is one of affection and sympathy. If any other reason
                    but this was the rule, where would be all the
                    happy homes we see around us? How, otherwise, can we account for the peaceful
                    and happy family life which is so distinctively English and of which we are so
                    justly proud?
                There are spots on the sun, and there is no such a thing as an ideal society.
                    Perfection in this world is what we are all striving after, and which, like the
                    magician's stone, is not to be found. Our ideals are high, even if we do not
                    attain to them, and no Englishwoman would, we imagine, admit that the picture
                    which Marie Corelli draws of the English is correct. We do not deny that there may have been, and are,
                    cases such as she describes in a society which represents only a very small
                    feature of English life, and is, in no sense of the word, representative.
                In spite of all the allurements of riches, the ostentation and extravagance of
                    to-day, and the temptations which money offers to women, we maintain that the
                    hearts of girls in England are pure and single-minded, that the men they choose
                    to be their helpmates and companions in life are the men they love, and however
                    well gilded or attractive may be the advantages
                    which money without love holds out, they have no chance in competition with the
                    affection which develops into the glamour and ecstasy of a pure, genuine
                    passion. It would be useless to ask Marie Corelli to pause in her denunciations
                    of the mother who, however much she may see her child suffer momentarily,
                    prevents a marriage where poverty would be the inevitable companion of a
                    lifetime. But she would surely not deny that the mother is justified in stopping
                    a marriage (however great might be the affection) where the whole of two lives would be spent in an unequal struggle with
                    privation and need. It is so easy to blame such a woman and inveigh against her
                    worldly-mindedness. But a mother can never forget that there are wider
                    considerations than the present happiness for two people who enter into a
                    marriage where there is barely enough for them to make two ends meet. The
                    destinies of unborn children have to be considered, and she may well be
                    justified in putting her veto on a contract which may bring beings into
                    existence for whom no adequate provision is possible.
                
                Marie Corelli may say what we urge is a justification of her contention, and she
                    may so construe it if she likes. All we maintain is, that the evils of which she
                    complains are only exceptional, and if they exist, they exist only in a society
                    which is not to be taken as representative in any sense of the word, nor are
                    they the outcome of any age or system, but have always existed. There have been
                    mercenary, selfish women since the creation of the world, and to some natures
                    the temptations which wealth offers will always be irresistible. But because this may be true of a few, it is unjust
                    to brand and condemn all Englishwomen, as Marie Corelli is prepared to do. We
                    may be more selfish, more luxurious than formerly, and the weaknesses engendered
                    by such influences may be more apparent; still, we maintain unhesitatingly that
                    the Englishwomen of to-day are no less governed by the sentiments of affection
                    and passion than their ancestors, and are just as ready to join their lives with
                    those of the men they love. Every day we see men and women in every class
                    marrying, who have neither great wealth nor
                    even the prospect of it, but who are content to lead lives of self-denial,
                    consecrated by that love, the very best and purest of which human nature is
                    capable, which will never be tarnished or destroyed by any of the changes which
                    affect the more mutable affairs of life.
            
            
            
                By FLORA ANNIE STEEL
                
                III
                THIS title, “The Modern Marriage Market,” conveys to my ear a distinct
                    flavour of blame when taken as a whole; but when I come to dissect its
                    alliterations, I find myself in doubt where to lay the accent of accusation.
                    Should it be on the “modern,” the “marriage,” or the “market”?
                So far as the adjective is concerned: I think the plaint may be dismissed
                    summarily. Personally I confess myself unable
                    to see the slightest difference in the principles on which marriages are made
                    nowadays and those on which they were made a hundred—two hundred—five hundred
                    years ago; briefly, since chivalry beguiled the world from the straight path of
                    duty. The theory of marriage, as set forth by Western civilisation, has
                    practically remained the same for centuries; such theory being simply that the
                    feeling, passion, emotion—call it what you will—which we designate as Love—with
                    a big L—is the only reason which an honourable man or modest woman can possibly admit, even to themselves,
                    as a reason for marriage. In other words, herein lies the only justification,
                    sanctification, and purification of what would otherwise be unjustifiable.
                I think that even the most cynical and blasé
                    frequenter of houseboats at Cookham would, if confronted with his own soul,
                    admit that it had a sneaking belief in this theory; while even the most cursory
                    glance at our literature proves that it has as many signatories as the
                    Thirty-nine Articles. Briefly, it is and has been the foundation-stone of our
                    marriage system.
                
                It is scarcely fair, therefore, to blame it as modern. Nor, when we come to
                    analyse the next word, have we any right to condemn marriage as it is. Viewed in
                    the purely personal aspect which is all that a marriage conducted on such purely
                    personal lines as the mutual gratification of feeling can claim, marriage seems
                    to touch a very high average of content. It can boast quite as much success as
                    is consistent with the natural evanescence of all feeling.
                Are we, then, to let our tongues slide over “modern” and “marriage” to dwell
                        reproachfully upon “market”? Are we to lay
                    the burden of blame upon the very idea of commerce in the Temple of Hymen?
                One of my predecessors has used the whip of words both to buyers and sellers in
                    this connection, and the other, while deprecating the justice of the reproof in
                    regard to actual facts, has not denied the iniquity of barter.
                Nor do I; but I would like to remind my readers that it was not only the tables
                    of the money-changers which the scourge of the Master drove forth from the
                    Temple, but also the seats of them which sold
                    doves! I would ask them what ethical difference there is in selling yourself for
                    love or for money, if mere personal pleasure lies at the bottom of the
                    bargain?
                I make bold to say that there is none. The girl who gives herself for exchange in
                    pure passion is quite as mercenary as the one who sells herself for gold. Both
                    claim their own desire, irrespective of everything but themselves. It is merely
                    a question as to the relative dignity of their ideals in regard to such personal
                    pleasure. A market is therefore inevitable under our present system, since, whether Mammon or Eros
                    ratifies the bond, English girls are taught to take their equivalent in
                    something which is valuable to themselves, and themselves only.
                So it seems to me that the phrase “modern marriage market” should have no accent
                    at all. It must be taken as a whole, or rejected as a whole. We must either say
                    that marriage is honourable in all if we get an equivalent which satisfies our
                    personal ideals, or we must say that neither for love nor for money have men and
                    women the right to enter into a contract which
                    only concerns themselves for a few short years, but which may influence the
                    world for generations.
                Which shall we do?
                To most, no doubt, the very idea of condemning the fundamental principle of our
                    marriage system wholesale may seem more absurd even than sacrilegious. The
                    world, they will say, has got on very well with the help of the little blind
                    god. Lads and lasses have sold their birthright for love since the beginning of
                    Time, and will continue so to do until Time is no more. It is natural, it is
                    proper, it is above all easy for them to do so. The majority of such marriages are happy, decorous, respectable; and
                    though our social morality is not quite what it should be, that has nothing to
                    do with the question. Our qualms as to what may be going on round the corner in
                    Piccadilly have no right to make our own voices quaver in singing about the one
                    “which breathed o'er Eden” during a marriage service in St. George's, Hanover
                        Square.
                Perhaps not; and yet the uncomfortable remembrance that the first wedding in this
                    world was rather the reverse of a panacea for all evil makes some of us doubt if
                    this theory of ours, of which we have spoken,
                    is not responsible for a large portion of the confusion which undoubtedly exists
                    in the minds of many men and women regarding what is called the relation of the
                    sexes.
                To say so may seem almost an insult to the hundreds, the thousands of honest men
                    and women who, as their children grow up to take their place in the world, hold
                    each other bravely by the hand till death do them part, and smile at each other
                    even then, knowing that they have done their duty—that they have given their
                    mortality to the immortality of the world; but the heroism, the virtue of these thousands must not blind us to the
                    fact that the very things we admire in them—the faithful comradeship, the
                    dutiful devotion, the self-denial—are the very things which would have been
                    scouted as a justification of marriage long years before: must not blind us also
                    to the fact that the passionate, absorbing Love—again with a big L—which,
                    according to Marie Corelli, is the only safeguard against making souls and
                    bodies “the traffickable material of vile huckstering,” has in nine cases out of
                    ten disappeared.
                I shall be told that I am wrong in saying
                    this—that it has not disappeared. It has strengthened, changed, sobered, risen
                    into a far more excellent thing than it was at first. Then why, in Heaven's
                    name, condemn those who prefer the gingerbread without the gilt upon it to begin
                    with? Why should we extol the man or woman who says openly, “I expect ‘Love to
                    teach me exquisite joys,’ to ‘bring our lives into resounding tune and harmony,
                    so that all the world shall seem full of luscious song.’—I wish to appropriate
                    to my sole use and benefit that which personally makes ‘my life worth living.’—I feel that I must have that ‘kiss and
                    no other on my lips,’ that hand ‘and no other to caress me’”?
                Does not that—put, not as I put it, but as the advocates of Love as a purifying
                    element between man and woman put it—sound quite as much like an apotheosis of
                    personal delights as “I expect money to give me exquisite joy, to bring
                    resounding tune and luscious song, etc., etc.”?
                Compare it, for instance, with the position which our present system condemns,
                    which nine out of every ten women would be ashamed to confess. “I do not expect intense personal gratification, but I
                    wish to marry, to have a home and children, to take my share in the glory and
                    toil, and here is my chance.” If you come to analyse this, you will find, not
                    only that it brings with it a far higher ideal of life, but that it emphasizes
                    something that sorely needs emphasizing: the distance—if I may be allowed so to
                    put it—between Piccadilly and St. George's, Hanover Square. It leaves us with
                    something more as a foundation for marriage than a mutual physical and mental
                    attraction which overpowers other considerations: an attraction which the individual experience of nearly every man
                    and woman in the world teaches them is evanescent. That it lasts sometimes need
                    not be denied. But its persistency certainly seems to vary in inverse ratio to
                    its intensity: those who feel it most keenly being, as a rule, those who are
                    liable to feel it most frequently. This, indeed, is almost inevitable, since
                    both the strength and the frequency argue the same cause, an emotional
                    nature.
                I shall be told, of course, that I have utterly failed to grasp the very idea of
                    Love; that I am confusing it with passion.
                
                I do not think I am, if the latter word is meant to carry even a suspicion of
                    blame with it. Briefly, it is one thing to fall in love—to be, let us say, very
                    much in love; another to think that it is not only a pleasant but a virtuous
                    act. As a matter of fact, it is a very commonplace, a very natural one. In many
                    cases such Love may prove quite a safe guide; but it is not a virtue to yield
                    obedience to the instinct, as if it were the voice of God.
                Yet that it is so, is the teaching which nine-tenths of us almost give to our
                    girls. Nay, more! It is the universal teaching
                    to both sexes on this point. Take up the most sentimental fiction of the English
                    school, or the most realistic of the French, and you will find them alike in
                    this underlying assumption that the attraction of sex for sex is something
                    praiseworthy. In the former the mutual self-sufficiency of hero and heroine,
                    when it dawns upon them that they are really in love with each other, would be
                    unbearable if it were not comic. And if Providence is kind enough to endow their
                    superiors in age with a few sensible doubts, the young people almost burst with importance over the discovery that
                    the course of true love never did run smooth.
                The same thing is observable in the realistic novel. The blind little god's arrow
                    is sufficient excuse for murdering one's grandmother, to say nothing of one's
                    lawful wife. No doubt the treatment of this theory differs, but a careful reader
                    can scarcely avoid coming to the conclusion that the emotion which leads, in the
                    sentimental novel—after an intolerable amount of strong love-making—to wedding
                    bells, is virtually the same as that which culminates in the necessity for propriety to use the “candle, the bell, and
                    the book.”
                The drama in both, begins on the old classical lines; youth, propinquity, an
                    all-absorbing selfishness, a mental and bodily exaltation which is intoxicating
                    as wine. Now, if this be so, the wrong—if wrong there be—must be in the end
                    which differentiates the two similar beginnings.
                But if the end in both be a purely personal gratification, it is hard to see why
                    one should be blessed and the other cursed utterly. Still harder it is for any
                    one to lay down the law and say, as the advocates of “all for love and the world well lost” theory do say, that you
                    may seek the happiness of personal self-gratification through the mind but not
                    through the body; through the sensual pleasures which can be bought by love, and
                    not through those which are to be bought by money. The distinction is a purely
                    arbitrary one. Self lies at the bottom of both decisions. The money-changers and
                    the sellers of doves alike turn the Temple into a market-place.
                Of course, the retort will once more be that I fail to understand what Love with
                    a big L means, and that, even admitting the
                    earthly element, which must count for something, there still remains the mental
                    sympathy—the friendship, the honest, unselfish desire to stand by each other to
                    do the best for each other, in every way, which is the essence of real love.
                Undoubtedly it is. So much so, that I retort, in my turn, by asking why this
                    should need the sanction of an ephemeral passion? Why, briefly, should it be
                    right for a woman to crave a “luscious song,” and wrong for her to be content
                    with the still small voice of an approving conscience? Why should she be allowed
                        to forget duty in pleasure, and forbidden
                    to forget pleasure in duty?
                Women have not so learnt their rights, their privileges, their duties in those
                    Eastern lands with which I am best acquainted. There, hidden under a thousand
                    blemishes, a million abuses, still lingers the great truth—so unpalatable to our
                    Western individualism—that man and woman stand related, not to each other, but
                    to the immortality of their race—that immortality which comes to the world
                    through the generations on generations of men and women who are born into it.
                    There, even nowadays, when error has obscured
                    so much, marriage is not a purely personal matter, as it is with us; it is a
                    duty to the race.
                I am not, however, going to advocate the Indian system here (with child-marriage,
                    female infanticide, and sati thrown in as
                    make-weights)—though my personal experience is that, even with polygamy
                    superadded, the percentage of rational happiness derived from wifehood and
                    motherhood is as high in India as it is in England. I only wish with all
                    diffidence to ask each thinking woman if our present ideal of what justifies
                        marriage does not put St. George's,
                    Hanover Square, into dangerous proximity with Piccadilly. To use one and the
                    same bell for weddings and exorcisms is confusing to the multitude, which has
                    but the one sense of hearing; yet, if we admit the sanctifying power of mere
                    emotion, it seems to me impossible to avoid so using it. For
                    experience—every-day experience of the world—teaches us that it is impossible
                    even for the principals themselves to tell beforehand whether the Love which
                    prompts their marriage will stand the strain. They may hope it so, wish it so,
                        pray that it may be so; but very few
                    men—or women either, for that matter—could truthfully say, as they stand at the
                    altar, that they never felt a similar emotion before, or predict that they would
                    never feel it again. Perhaps it may be said that I exaggerate this teaching. Let
                    us go back to what has been written in these pages about it.
                “What is marriage?” asks Marie Corelli; then answers the question by saying that
                    it is the taking of a vow before the Throne which declares that the “man and
                    woman concerned have each discovered in each
                    other his or her true mate—that all the world is a mere grain of dust in worth
                    as compared with the exalted passion which fills their souls, and moves them to
                    become one in flesh as well as one in spirit.”
                Lady Jeune, again, gives it as her opinion that with a pure and single-minded
                    English girl, nothing has any chance in competition with “the glamour and
                    ecstasy of a pure, genuine passion.”
                These are no uncertain utterances. They point unerringly to the thesis that this
                    personal emotion—call it what you will— is in
                    itself sufficient to warrant entering into a lifelong contract into which, to
                    say the least of it, many other considerations should enter: a thesis which is
                    largely responsible for making the standard of social morality in the West so
                    low.
                For it is low. Whatever the theory of twin souls may have done towards personal
                    happiness, it has certainly not enabled us to rise one whit higher in regard to
                    social and conjugal morality than those who hold marriage to be a thing apart
                    from Love.
                In truth, the quarrel goes deeper than a mere dispute as to the relative greed for pleasure of the
                    Englishwomen of to-day and their sisters of yesterday. What has to be settled is
                    the question whether, as Marie Corelli puts it, “marriage is nothing more nor
                    less than a crime if it is entered upon without the mutual supreme attraction
                    and deep love which makes the union sacred”; whether a marriage without ecstasy
                    is a “selling of the body into slavery” (the italics are mine). Is
                    this so? Or do we touch here on the mother error which has done more to lengthen
                    the record of our divorce courts than any other cause, and which, even when it stops short of that, sells
                    the soul of many a good woman into something worse than slavery,—into the loss
                    of her own self-esteem, into a sense of perpetual degradation: the assertion,
                    briefly, that the duties of wifehood and motherhood are in themselves
                    debasing?
                “Try,” goes on Marie Corelli in her eloquent appeal, “to feel, to comprehend, to
                    learn the responsibilities invested in Womanhood.”
                Never was more admirable advice given; but why stultify it by setting as the
                        highest responsibility the duty of “being
                    kissed” as she likes to be kissed, caressed as she likes to be caressed, of
                    giving herself “without any consideration whatever to her pre-elected
                    lover”?
                Would it not be better advice to bid our daughters claim that right of reasonable
                    judgment which Lady Jeune excuses in the much-abused mother—the right of
                    remembering “that there are wider considerations in marriage than the present
                    happiness of two people, since the destinies of unborn children have to be
                    considered”?
                It seems almost incredible that at this time of
                    day it should be necessary to insist on such a palpable truism. That it should
                    be so speaks volumes of blame, not so much for the Modern Marriage Market as for
                    the theory of marriage which has inevitably led to it.
                It is time this was altered. The changing conditions of woman's life in this
                    nineteenth century of ours make it imperative that some more certain guide
                    should be chosen than that which leads alike to Piccadilly and St. George's. In
                    the old days, when women had little else to do, and still less to choose, this dream of personal happiness was not so
                    dangerous as it is now, when we have begun to ask questions and insist upon
                    answers. Take a middle-class family of girls, for instance; nice girls, good
                    girls, pretty girls. Half of them cannot hope to marry. But which half? There is
                    the crucial point. If, when they were born, Providence wrote on their foreheads,
                    “This one is to be married, this one not,” it would be well and good. But it can
                    never be safe to din the claims of personal pleasure and pure passion—as they
                    are dinned by most purveyors of fiction
                        “pour les jeunes filles”—into ears which
                    may never have the chance of listening to the passion itself, or, what is worse,
                    may have to listen to it without the mysterious sanction of marriage.
                It is always unsafe to live in the mental condition of that large section of
                    unreasoning humanity which loves to sit in a basket and then lift itself up by
                    the handles. Pure passion is the sanction of marriage—marriage is the sanction
                    of pure passion. Here is the position with a vengeance!
                In truth we need a surer guide, a more bracing and wholesome gospel.
                
                We must go back to what our Eastern sisters have never left; to the sanction of
                    home and motherhood—a sanction which there is grave danger, in this age of
                    individualism, will soon be lost sight of altogether.
                Men have already almost lost their fatherhood, from the very extent of their
                    personal freedom in regard to it; and though this is not the place in which to
                    discuss that aspect of the question, the fact that this is so must fill the
                    minds of the thoughtful among us with dread, lest the emancipation of women
                        should lead to a like loss of the highest
                    function of humanity.
                For it is the highest. The Angel of the Annunciation carries to woman the most
                    honourable of all messages, gives her the most noble mission she can have. For
                    the world still waits for the child that shall be born—for its greatest poet,
                    its greatest statesman, its greatest philanthropist: briefly, for the man who
                    shall right the wrong in all times, all places.
                And it is to the thought of that child which is to come—that child with its
                    message of peace through self-sacrifice, lying
                    in its mother's arms, perhaps in our own—that we women must look for the
                    solution of many a problem which now angers the world and us. As of old, the
                    purification of the Temple will come through that message of Annunciation; but
                    the hand of the Messiah must overthrow the seats of them that sell doves, as
                    well as the tables of the money-changers.
            
            
            
                By SUSAN, COUNTESS OF MALMESBURY
                
                IV
                
                    
                        “Lord Thomas was a bold forester,
                        And a chacer of the Kings deere.
                        Faire Ellinor was a fine woman,
                        And Lord Thomas he loved her deere.”
                    
                
                THE condition of mind so artlessly described in the old ballad quoted
                    above, belongs to the aboriginal class of emotions which is neither ancient nor
                    modern, but co-existent with human nature, and against which education,
                    civilisation, and luxury fight in vain. As every creature born into the world
                    presents a fresh and sensitive surface to the
                    impressions of experience, and only learns too late, as a rule, to profit by
                    that of others, so the successors of Lord Thomas and Faire Ellinor, as they walk
                    together in the vernal pageant of their youth, contemplate themselves and their
                    heart-adventure with astonishment, awe, and an honest, hearty, wholesome belief
                    that no one ever loved before as they do, nor ever can again so much as guess at
                    the unearthly beauty of a light which seems to shine for them alone. Upon this
                    simple but solid foundation the edifice of marriage mainly rests, and I fully believe that in the majority of the
                    unions of to-day feeling plays an important part.
                If any one should doubt this statement, let him spend a week in a country-house
                    alone with any young engaged couple, chosen at random among his acquaintance. It
                    will probably be a painful experiment, since his unhappy personality,
                    unillumined by the Shekinah of their mutual interest in one another, will remain
                    plunged in a gloom which will seem all the darker for the brilliant radiance
                    near at hand.
                
                But the foundations of a building, though first in importance, are only the
                    beginning of a complicated structure, and it is my desire to follow as closely
                    as I can the details of an institution which has existed so many thousands of
                    years, and has, from age to age, learnt, partly to adapt itself to the needs of
                    a nervous and impulsive race of beings, and partly to act as a restraint on
                    qualities, not in themselves actually bad, but hurtful when exercised without
                    control. I wish to guess at what should and perchance might be, and at what
                    seems practically attainable in the present
                    state of society. But first I must glance at the three views of marriage now
                    laid before me: the Romantic, as presented Marie Corelli; the Social, as
                    understood by Lady Jeune, and the Practical, of which Mrs. Steel is the
                    prophet.
                The first of these writes with a skilful pen, a warm heart, but an undisciplined
                    mind. It is, no doubt, a happy state to be in, that in which we are unable to
                    see more than one side of every question, and one which, in addition, seems
                    calculated to endow the world with saints and martyrs whom it piously reveres, but whom it shows no signs, at this
                    stage of its existence, of emulating. The fly, with the thousand facets of its
                    eye, must be fairly puzzled at times, one would suppose, to choose its path in
                    life, unless its brain corrects the myriad images the retina receives. It is for
                    us, in the same manner, to order and arrange the many different facts and sides
                    of life which pass before our gaze. A good delusion and a strong prejudice serve
                    as a goal in the steeple-chase of our career, and as blinkers to keep us in a
                    narrow and perhaps a useful path; but in
                    studying a question in order to arrive at the truth, whether palatable or not,
                    and above all in claiming to advise our own sex for its highest good, so far as
                    is possible, every point of view should be considered, every element in the case
                    weighed in the balance. To look at marriage from its purely romantic side, or,
                    on the other hand, to bring its utilitarian aspects into too great relief, is
                    unskilfully to mix the ingredients which go to form that compound of experience
                    and intuition which we call a ripened judgment. Marie Corelli draws a pretty
                    picture of simple, loving hearts in Sicily,
                    but is she very sure that those whom she so touchingly describes as passing rich
                    on over twice as much again as forty pounds a year exhibit more than the
                    negative virtue of content? Would they refuse comfort and affluence if offered
                    them? Comfort, which might mean life or death to either in ill-health;
                    affluence, which would certainly afford advantages to their children such as
                    they could not hope to obtain under present circumstances, and such as they
                    would scarcely have the right to decline?
                The sum, in truth, we have to spend is nothing:
                    the all-important question is, What must that sum be made to buy? What are
                    necessaries? What are luxuries? For I need hardly point out to any one who has
                    felt the grip of an English winter, that what constitutes riches in Capri would
                    mean poverty and privation in a climate like ours. So much depends on the class
                    we happen to associate with, and the sky under which we live. The deprivation of
                    accustomed luxuries, or such easements as we have enjoyed in life, is so serious
                    a matter that it is a well-known factor in
                    punishment as administered to criminals.
                Are we, then, purely mercenary if we urge these considerations on those who have
                    yet to grapple with reality, and have never known the crushing hug of want? To
                    turn to another point: is there a mother in this world who, if she could prevent
                    it, would allow her daughter to give herself “without conditions of any sort” to
                    the first man for whom the woman-nature in her breast had faintly stirred in
                    that slumber where it lies bound by the opiate of custom, education, and
                    hereditary proclivities? To such dreams of
                    Heaven, natural though they be, there is a cold awakening in the chilly dawn of
                    human experience. Few men, worthy of the name, would accept such a sacrifice or
                    undertake such a charge. Those who have done so, for selfish reasons, have
                    forged fetters on their limbs of which they sometimes hear the clanking all
                    their days. Not the most advanced woman among the vanguard which leads that
                    section of our sisters can live happy and content under the disapproval and
                    avoidance of those she has been accustomed to
                    associate with. The enthusiasm which armed martyrs for the rack or death is
                    sadly cooled by the daily pin-pricks which accompany any irrevocable step taken
                    in defiance of custom and society, just as a heavy shower of rain will do more
                    to disperse a mob than more heroic measures. No woman, whose heart is single,
                    would recommend another to follow in such a thorny path.
                Lady Jeune, who follows Marie Corelli in the discussion, writes from the
                    practical standpoint of a woman who has a wide and intimate knowledge of the
                        special class which she describes; but she
                    confines herself to that alone. And Mrs. Steel, who succeeds her, is, by her own
                    confession, more conversant with the matrimonial affairs of our Eastern than of
                    our Western sisters. Moreover, she evidently considers the former to be the
                    highest and happiest development of home-life, and that the duties of wives and
                    husbands towards each other should be entirely or chiefly merged in their mutual
                    care for their offspring, which, I may suggest, but for that gilt on the
                    gingerbread which Mrs. Steel condemns, would probably never come to be a factor in the case. She is evidently of
                    opinion, with Mrs. Malaprop, that it is better to begin with a little aversion;
                    but even that stern lady does not condemn us to indifference all our lives. Why,
                    because a feeling is both beautiful and evanescent, are we not to enjoy and
                    prize it while it lasts? Beauty and evanescence are two of the chief
                    characteristics of existence—beauty which the human eye may never see, and
                    evanescence which oft-times enhances that very beauty we desire or regret. And
                    will the memory of love not serve to prevent our judging coldly and harshly the faults of those to whom our faith is
                    pledged? And if that only, and no more, does it not fulfil a high purpose
                    between a man and woman whom only death or shame can part, whose interests and
                    whose duties are the same? Love is the fulfilment of the law, the willing,
                    cheerful sacrifice of self for the happiness and good of others, either of a
                    single individual or of the race. It is this that Mrs. Steel constantly confuses
                    with passion.
                Another point. Her special reference to the greater regard of Indian women for
                    their children than is displayed by our sex in
                    this country seems to me to be an unfortunate one. Take, for instance, the
                    motive for bringing children into the world which is well known to exist in many
                    cases: the belief that, if they die without descendants to perform their
                    obsequies, their souls go into the body of an unclean beast. This is certainly
                    purely selfish, and has its root in what Mrs. Steel ought to feel compelled to
                    call a personal gratification, though one which we should consider imaginary.
                    All true love, whether between parents and children or husband and wife,  is, in its essence, free from self; but in
                    both cases it is founded on the strongest and most abiding instincts of the
                    human race. Neither can be said to be higher than the other, as they are not
                    intrinsically good, if I may say so, nor are they bad. They are simply natural;
                    their absence is unnatural, and tends to the deterioration, as their presence
                    does to the preservation, of our kind, having still, as Mrs. Steel would say, a
                    selfish origin, though on the widest basis.
                All things, as St. Paul himself admits, are lawful, but all are not expedient.
                    Self-preservation is a notable example of an
                    impulse admirable in itself and necessary to human life, which must be
                    controlled, or sacrificed even, where wider interests are at stake. Instincts,
                    to be useful, must be recognised as such, not placed on a pedestal and elevated
                    into transcendent virtues, but put into harness, so to speak, and made to draw
                    the cart of life.
                Another factor in marriage has eluded Mrs. Steel's quick eye—one that is of the
                    highest consequence to the race. It was touched upon by Punch many
                    years ago in his picture of the Noble Owner
                    and his Prize Short-horn:—
                
                    NOBLE OWNER 
                    (very attenuated):
                    You certainly are a magnificent fellow.
                
                
                    PRIZE SHORT-HORN:
                    Well, my lord, if as much trouble had been taken to select your father and
                        mother as you took with mine, you would be a magnificent fellow too!
                
                History does not relate what the Noble Owner replied, but he might have pointed
                    out that difficulties of selection increase as higher tests of fitness are
                    required. With us not only physical, but moral and intellectual gifts are looked for, and it is a recognised, if
                    melancholy, fact that the first and last, at any rate, rarely exist together in
                    any high degree. Different qualities also are needed in the various ranks of
                    life—a fact which our modern system of education does not always condescend to
                    notice; while it is evident that certain natures require certain others as the
                    complement to their own. “The heart of a little man,” said a friend of mine the
                    other day, “goes out like a rocket to a big woman,” and we see the converse
                    happen every day; while what he said of physical is equally true of mental
                    gifts. The 
                        ex-
                        exhilarating
                     hilarating and stimulating effect of
                    certain minds upon our own is within the experience of most of us, while another
                    perhaps superior intellect may leave us cold and dull.
                Not even the Purdah or the Yashmak can entirely disguise or obliterate a
                    determined character or powerful will, and this we know was as true in the days
                    of Lady Mary Wortley Montagu as it is in certain notable instances at the
                    present time.
                The little tenement in which, for a few brief years, our soul crouches in unrest,
                    and of which it is in some degree both the
                    cause and the effect, so effectually separates us from other beings of our kind
                    that each must live apart and die in solitude. This loneliness grips every heart
                    that beats and every mind that stretches forth a feeler in the dark. To find a
                    sister-being one with our own, complete community of thought and aspiration, is
                    the deep longing which consumes both men and women; and to the thoughtful mind,
                    denied fulfilment of its holiest and dearest wish, the most convincing proof of
                    life beyond the grave. This desolation of the soul, “divine despair,” which
                        feeds upon our inmost heart, and which
                    spurs a noble nature to exertion, is the same force, but transformed, which
                    drives the weaker creature to perdition. We cannot live alone, and, meeting with
                    another isolated entity, we think to find in it the silver key to loosen our
                    disquietude, and to unlock, each for another, the guarded secrets slumbering,
                    scarcely dreamt of, below the surface we present to the open, if inscrutable,
                    book of persons and events, whose pages slowly turn before our eyes. We search,
                    as did Faust of old, for the Helen of our lives, and when, at last, like him, we
                    say to the flying moment, “Stay! thou art so
                    fair!” it melts beneath our touch. No reality—if, indeed, there be such a
                    thing—can reach the beauty of our pictured thoughts, and we are doomed from
                    childhood to smart beneath privation and regret.
                This bitter discipline, rightly endured, moulds the character and develops the
                    muscles for the Olympic Game of life. Nerve feeds on danger, and courage on
                    necessity; while sorrow, nobly borne, weaves a steel strand into the cable of
                    experience, which strengthens it for those who follow in our traces.
                
                This hope of fellowship and effort to attain perfect union, the practical outcome
                    of our solitude of heart, is the motive power which drives some of us to
                    marriage and some of us to sin.
                After an early stage of existence, men are much less likely to “fall in love,” as
                    it is called, than women, and especially girls who are less in contact with the
                    real world, and unacquainted with its sterner side. It is therefore far more
                    important that they should be protected against themselves, and it is certainly
                    the plain duty of every mother to lay before
                    her child the inevitable consequences of an imprudent marriage. Most girls in
                    the upper classes know nothing of the value of money; they are brought up in
                    comfortable, or even luxurious, homes, by parents generally indulgent, and are
                    as incapable of judging of the merits of a possible husband as they would be of
                    the points of a horse. Such a girl might, as likely as not, choose a
                    high-stepping, flashy screw, and pay for it the ruinous price of a spoilt life.
                    It is the act of a friend, though a painful task, to tear aside the veil which
                    ignorance or native innocence and a pure heart
                    hang before her eyes, if by so doing she can be saved from an irretrievable
                    blunder, the punishment for which is as heavy, alas! as for a crime.
                Girls are now highly educated—so far as book-learning can make them so; they are
                    allowed freedom undreamt. of twenty years ago, and the superficial knowledge of
                    life they thus acquire is one of the most dangerous elements in their present
                    condition. An attitude of independence, an indisposition to listen to advice,
                    combined with total ignorance of the real situation they are bent on creating for themselves, is a
                    spectacle which would be ludicrous if it were not melancholy to those who know
                    by experience the difficulties which beset a woman's life, even under the most
                    favoured conditions. Authority being admittedly obsolete, all a mother can do is
                    to create and maintain, with infinite patience and affection, such an influence
                    over her child's mind as will allow of the latter being guided aright when she
                    comes to the place where two roads branch. To know how to look for the qualities
                    which stand the wear and tear of life in
                    common, and to learn that all that glitters is not gold, is one of the first
                    steps in our education. Neither brilliant personal qualities alone, nor wealth
                    and position by themselves, can satisfy the heart which is formed to look, often
                    against its conscious will, for something higher, for that invisible but
                    possible perfection to which the caged bird sings its sweetest songs. It is this
                    search for the ideal, and the fond belief that it has at last been found, which
                    wrecks so many lives and makes the searchers do wrong in secret, or bear open
                    shame for the sake of the treasure which they think at length is in their grasp, but which often turns to
                    ashes in their hand.
                It is therefore inevitable that marriage should produce a large amount of
                    disappointment, which may best be overcome by reflecting on our own shortcomings
                    rather than on those of our companion. Partners in a happy marriage must bring a
                    certain capital of youth and health, and in addition qualities, moral and
                    mental, such as are necessary to advance them in their condition of life.
                
                    “Choose not alone a proper mate,
                    But a proper time to marry.”
                
                
                You do not require your carriage-horses to wait at table, neither does your pet
                    dog pay the household bills; but in human beings we are apt to look for
                    qualities quite as incompatible as these, and to marry in the fond hope that the
                    particular thistle we have selected, unlike all others, will bear a fine crop of
                    figs.
                Marriages between different classes in Society rarely turn out well. Early
                    influences are seldom, if ever, eradicated, and where two people look at life
                    from opposite points of view there must be constant straining of the tie which binds them to each other.
                Those who marry into a class above their own are almost invariably huffy, and
                    constantly on the outlook for slights. Where this is not the case they may
                    easily become overbearing or purse-proud. When, on the other hand, they marry
                    beneath them, they find their new surroundings impossible to conciliate, and
                    themselves accused of pride or “airs.” Most frequently is this the case where a
                    lady marries a working man. The tie shortly becomes as irksome to him as to her,
                    and he finds her delicate and useless, unable
                    to do the hard work expected of the women to whom he is accustomed; while the
                    very sense of inferiority, which constantly haunts him, renders him uneasy in
                    her presence, and sometimes even drives him to ill-treat or desert her
                    altogether.
                I came across an instance of this kind, not long ago, in a pretty creature, still
                    young, but roughened by toil, who had formed a union with a working man. Shunned
                    by her own people, and finally abandoned by her husband, she had been found and
                    rescued from the lowest depths of degradation by a kind and charitable lady.
                
                Difference of race is generally a great handicap to contentment in conjugal life.
                    Even between European nations difficulties are apt to arise: how much more,
                    then, where colour prejudices step in. This sad lesson many of our girls have
                    learnt in India, where they find their position almost untenable, while the men
                    they marry, returning to their own people and former habits, undergo a strange
                    and terrible transformation in the eyes, at least, of their English brides, who
                    are awakened too late to the truth and to the inherent differences of race and
                    inherited characteristics which even a
                    European education is powerless to remove.
                Imprudent marriages, where means of support are inadequate, are more frequent
                    with us than on the Continent, where, particularly in France, the whole affair
                    is treated more as a family arrangement. The position of the woman in her own
                    house seems to gain, rather than not, by this way of looking at the matter, and
                    on the whole the average results appear to be satisfactory.
                Restrictions on marriage are common in Continental armies, where, in certain
                    cases, officers are obliged to ask the consent
                    of their colonel, who is instructed to institute a full inquiry into the lady's
                    character and financial position.
                With us these regulations are confined to the men, four or five per cent. of whom
                    only can marry “with leave.” This does not, of course, compel the remainder to
                    remain single, like Zulu warriors, but excludes their wives from certain
                    privileges which those who are “on the strength” enjoy; free quarters, for
                    instance, and such employment as can be reserved for them.
                Mercenary motives are far from being confined
                    to the upper ranks of life, and from inquiries I have made I learn that a woman
                    of the working classes, with “a little bit of money,” is just as much run after
                    as great heiresses in Society by fortune-hunters, and just as likely to be cast
                    aside when that little bit of money is spent.
                I have said that equality in social position is an important factor, and that
                    serious racial divergences should act as a bar to marriage. Furthermore, for the
                    sake of any children which may be born, persons suffering with hereditary
                    diseases ought to remain single, and the very
                    immature unions which take place so frequently—for instance, in the East End of
                    London—should be discouraged and prevented as much as possible.
                Beyond these initial points, I hold that we ought to look for physical beauty,
                    which in itself includes so many other qualities; for evenness of temper, and
                    the greater moral and intellectual gifts which go to widen and heighten the
                    horizon of our life, and which bring unfailing consolation in time of privation
                    or sorrow. The power to occupy the mind, to divert it from cares when by no taking thought can trouble be averted or
                    suffering relieved, is one of the most precious gifts that a man or a woman can
                    receive or acquire, and one which must tend to sweeten the life they have
                    solemnly undertaken to spend together.
                These, I shall be told, are all counsels of perfection; but in reply I may remind
                    my readers that he who “aimeth at the sky, shoots higher far than he who means a
                    tree.” We can at least look up, and some day hope to scale the snow-clad heights
                    which look so inaccessible from below.
                
                And in the meantime let us say with the Preacher:
                
                    “Two are better than one; because they have a good reward for their labour.
                        For if they fall, the one will lift up his fellow: but woe to him that is
                        alone when he falleth; for he hath not another to help him up.”
                
            
            Hazell, Watson, & Viney, Ld., London and Aylesbury.
        
    
