
     ----CITATION----
        Norton, Caroline Sheridan (1808-1877). A Letter to the Queen on Lord Chancellor Cranworth’s Marriage and Divorce
                Bill. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 214 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (April 14, 1996).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7092
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    A LETTER TO THE QUEEN 
                    ON LORD CHANCELLOR CRANWORTH’S MARRIAGE AND DIVORCE
                        BILL
                
                BY THE HON. MRS. NORTON.
                
                    
                        “Only a woman’s hair.”
                        THACKERAY’S LECTURE ON SWIFT.
                    
                
                
                    LONDON: 
                    LONGMAN, BROWN, GREEN AND LONGMANS. 
                
                1855.
                [THE AUTHOR RESERVES THE RIGHT OF TRANSLATION.]
            
        
        
            
                A LETTER TO THE QUEEN
                
                    MADAM,
                
                On Tuesday, June 13th, of last session, Lord Chancellor Cranworth brought forward
                    a measure for the reform of the Marriage laws of England; which measure was
                    afterwards withdrawn. In March, 1855, in this present session, the Solicitor
                    General stated, that a bill on the same subject was “nearly prepared,” and would
                    be brought forward “immediately after the Easter recess.” On May 10th, being
                    pressed to name a time, he stated that it would be proposed “ as soon as the House had expressed an opinion on the Testamentary
                        Jurisdiction Bill.” That time has not arrived: and meanwhile,—as one who
                    has grievously suffered, and is still suffering, under the present imperfect
                    state of the law,—I address your Majesty on the subject.
                
                I do not do so in the way of appeal. The vague romance of “carrying my wrongs to
                    the foot of the throne,” forms no part of my intention: for I know the throne is
                    powerless to redress them. I know those pleasant tales of an earlier and simpler
                    time, when oppressed subjects travelled to the presence of some glorious prince
                    or princess, who instantly set their affairs to rights without reference to law,
                    are quaint old histories, or fairy fables, fit only for the amusement of
                    children.
                I connect your Majesty’s name with these pages from a different motive; for two
                    reasons: of which one, indeed, is a sequence to the other. First, because I
                    desire to point out the grotesque anomaly which ordains that married women shall
                    be “non?existent” in a country governed by a female Sovereign; and secondly,
                    because, whatever measure for the reform of these statutes may be proposed, it
                    cannot become “the law of the land” without your Majesty’s assent and sign
                    manual. In England there is no Salique law. If there were,—if the principles
                    which guide all legislation for the inferior sex in this country, were carried
                    out in their integrity as far as the throne,—your Majesty would be by birth a
                    subject, and Hanover and England would be still under one King.
                
                It is not so. Your Majesty is Queen of England; Head of the Church; Head of the
                    Law; Ruler of millions of men; and the assembled Senate who meet to debate and
                    frame legislative enactments in each succeeding year, begin their
                    sessional labours by reverently listening to that clear woman’s voice,—rebellion
                    against whose command is treason.
                In the year 1845, on the occasion of the opening of the new Hall of Lincoln’s
                    Inn, your Majesty honoured that Hall with your presence: when His Royal Highness
                    Prince Albert was invited to become a Barrister: “the keeping of his terms and
                    exercises, and the payment of all fees and expenses, being dispensed with.” It
                    was an occasion of great pomp and rejoicing. No reigning sovereign had visited
                    the Inns of Court since Charles II., in 1671. In the magnificent library of
                    Lincoln’s Inn, seated on a chair of state (Prince Albert standing), your Majesty
                    held a levee; and received an address from the benchers, barristers, and
                    students?at?law, which was read by the treasurer on his knee: thanking your
                    Majesty for the proof given by your presence of your “gracious regard for the
                    profession of the law,”—offering congratulations “on the great amendments of the
                        law, effected since your Majesty’s
                    accession;” and affirming that “the pure glory of those labours must be dear to
                    your Majesty’s heart.”
                To that address your Majesty was graciously pleased to return a suitable answer;
                    adding,—“I gladly testify my respect for the profession of the law; by which I
                    am aided in administering JUSTICE, and in maintaining the
                    prerogative of the Crown and the rights of my people.”
                A banquet followed. The health of the new barrister, the Prince Consort, was
                    drunk with loud cheers. His Royal Highness put on a student’s gown, over his
                    Field Marshal’s uniform, and so wore it on returning from the Hall; and then
                    that glittering courtly vision—of a young beloved queen, with ladies in waiting,
                    and attendant officers of state, and dignitaries in rich dresses, melted out of
                    the solemn library; and left the dingy law courts once more to the dull quiet,
                    which had been undisturbed by such a glorious sight for nearly two hundred
                    years. Only, on the grand day of the following Trinity term, the new Barrister,
                    His Royal Highness Prince Albert, dined in the Hall as a Bencher, in compliment
                    to those who had elected him.
                Now this was not a great mockery; but a great
                    ceremony. It was entered into with the serious loyalty of faithful subjects:
                    with the enthusiasm of attached hearts: and I know not what sight could be more
                    graceful or touching, than the homage of those venerable and learned men to
                    their young female sovereign. The image of Lawful Power, coming in such fragile
                    person, to meet them on that vantage ground of Justice, where students are
                    taught, by sublime theories, how Right can be defended against Might, the poor
                    against the rich, the weak against the strong, in their legal practice; and how
                    entirely the civilised intelligence of the nineteenth century rejects, as
                    barbarous, those bandit rules of old, based on the “simple plan,”“That
                            they should take, who have the power,And they should keep, who
                                can.”
                It was the very poetry of allegiance, when the Lord Chancellor and the other
                    great law officers did obeisance in that Hall to their Queen; and the Treasurer
                    knelt at a woman’s feet, to read of the amendments in that great stern science
                    by which governments themselves are governed; whose thrall all nations submit
                    to; whose value even the savage acknowledges,—and checks by its means the wild liberty he enjoys, with some rude
                    form of polity and order.
                Madam,—I will not do your Majesty the injustice of supposing, that the very
                    different aspect the law wears in England for the female sovereign and the
                    female subject, must render you indifferent to what those subjects may suffer;
                    or what reform may be proposed, in the rules more immediately affecting them. I
                    therefore submit a brief and familiar exposition of the laws relating to
                    women,—as taught and practised in those Inns of Court, where your Majesty
                    received homage, and Prince Albert was elected a Bencher.
                A married woman in England has no legal existence: her being is
                    absorbed in that of her husband. Years of separation of desertion cannot alter
                    this position. Unless divorced by special enactment in the House of Lords, the
                    legal fiction holds her to be “one” with her husband, even though
                    she may never see or hear of him.
                She has no possessions, unless by special settlement; her property is
                        his property. Lord Ellenborough mentions a case in which a
                    sailor bequeathed “all he was worth” to a woman he cohabited with; and afterwards married, in the West Indies, a woman of
                    considerable fortune. At this man’s death it was held,—notwithstanding the
                    hardship of the case,—that the will swept away from his widow, in favour of his
                    mistress, every shilling of the property. It is now provided that a will shall
                    be revoked by marriage: but the claim of the husband to all that is
                    his wife’s exists in full force. An English wife has no legal right even to her
                    clothes and ornaments; her husband may take them and sell them if he pleases,
                    even though they be the gifts of relatives or friends, or bought before
                    marriage.
                An English wife cannot make a will. She may have children or kindred whom she may
                    earnestly desire to benefit;—she may be separated from her husband, who may be
                    living with a mistress; no matter: the law gives what she has to him, and no
                    will she could make would be valid.
                An English wife cannot legally claim her own earnings. Whether wages for manual
                    labour, or payment for intellectual exertion, whether she weed potatoes, or keep
                    a school, her salary is the husband’s; and he could compel a second
                    payment, and treat the first as void, if paid to the wife without his
                    sanction.
                An English wife may not leave her husband’s
                    house. Not only can he sue her for “restitution of conjugal rights,” but he has
                    a right to enter the house of any friend or relation with whom she may take
                    refuge, and who may “harbour her,”—as it is termed,—and carry her away by force,
                    with or without the aid of the police.
                If the wife sue for separation for cruelty, it must be “cruelty that endangers
                    life or limb,” and if she has once forgiven, or, in legal phrase,
                        “condoned” his offences, she cannot plead them; though her past
                    forgiveness only proves that she endured as long as endurance was possible.
                If her husband take proceedings for a divorce, she is not, in the first instance,
                    allowed to defend herself. She has no means of proving the falsehood of his
                    allegations. She is not represented by attorney, nor permitted to be considered
                    a party to the suit between him and her supposed lover, for “damages.” Lord
                    Brougham affirmed in the House of Lords: “in that action the
                        character of the woman was at immediate issue, although she was not
                        prosecuted. The consequence not unfrequently was, that the character of a
                        woman was sworn away; instances were known in which, by collusion between
                        the husband and a pretended paramour, the character of the wife has been
                        destroyed. All this could take place, and
                        yet the wife had no defence; she was excluded from Westminster?hall, and
                        behind her back, by the principles of our jurisprudence, her character was
                        tried between her husband and the man called her paramour.”
                If an English wife be guilty of infidelity, her husband can divorce
                        her so as to marry again; but she cannot divorce the husband
                        a vinculo, however profligate he may be.
                    No law court can divorce in England. A special Act of Parliament annulling the
                    marriage, is passed for each case. The House of Lords grants this almost as a
                    matter of course to the husband, but not to the wife. In only four instances
                    (two of which were cases of incest), has the wife obtained a divorce to marry
                    again.
                She cannot prosecute for a libel. Her husband must prosecute; and in cases of
                    enmity and separation, of course she is without a remedy.
                She cannot sign a lease, or transact responsible business.
                She cannot claim support, as a matter of personal right, from her husband. The
                    general belief and nominal rule is, that her husband is “bound to maintain her.”
                    That is not the law. He is not bound to her. He is bound to his country; bound to see that she does not cumber
                    the parish in which she resides. If it be proved that means sufficient are at
                    her disposal, from relatives or friends, her husband is quit of his obligation,
                    and need not contribute a farthing: even if he have deserted her; or be in
                    receipt of money which is hers by inheritance.
                She cannot bind her husband by any agreement, except through a third party. A
                    contract formally drawn out by a lawyer,—witnessed, and signed by her
                    husband,—is void in law; and he can evade payment of an income so
                    assured, by the legal quibble that “a man cannot contract with his own
                    wife.”
                Separation from her husband by consent, or for his ill usage, does not alter
                    their mutual relation. He retains the right to divorce her after
                    separation,—as before,—though he himself be unfaithful.
                Her being, on the other hand, of spotless character, and without reproach, gives
                    her no advantage in law. She may have withdrawn from his roof knowing that he
                    lives with “his faithful housekeeper”: having suffered personal violence at his
                    hands; having “condoned” much, and being able to prove it by unimpeachable
                    testimony: or he may have shut the doors of her
                    house against her: all this is quite immaterial: the law takes no cognisance of
                    which is to blame. As her husband, he has a right to all that is
                    hers: as his wife, she has no right to anything that is his. As her
                    husband, he may divorce her (if truth or false swearing can do it): as his wife,
                    the utmost “divorce” she could obtain, is permission to reside alone,—married to
                    his name. The marriage ceremony is a civil bond for him,—and an indissoluble
                    sacrament for her; and the rights of mutual property which that ceremony is
                    ignorantly supposed to confer, are made absolute for him, and null for her.
                Of course an opposite picture may be drawn. There are bad, wanton, irreclaimable
                    women, as there are vicious, profligate, tyrannical men: but the difference is
                        this: that to punish and restrain bad wives, there are laws,
                    and very severe laws (to say nothing of social condemnation); while to punish or
                    restrain bad husbands, there is, in England, no adequate law whatever. Indeed,
                    the English law holds out a sort of premium on infidelity; for there is no doubt
                    that the woman who is divorced for a lover and marries him, suffers less (except
                    in conscience) than the woman who does not deserve to suffer at
                    all—the wife of a bad husband, who can inflict what he pleases, whether she remain in her home, or attempt
                    to leave it.
                Such, however, is “the law”: and if anything could add to the ridicule,
                    confusion, and injustice of its provisions, it would be the fact, that though it
                    is law for the rich, it is not law for the poor; and though it is the law in
                    England, it is not the law in Scotland!
                It is not law for the poor.
                Since the days of King Henry VIII., for whose passions it was contrived, our
                    method of divorce has remained an indulgence sacred to the aristocracy of
                    England. The poorer classes have no form of divorce amongst them. The rich man
                    makes a new marriage, having divorced his wife in the House of Lords: his new
                    marriage is legal; his children are legitimate; his bride occupies, in all
                    respects, the same social position as if he had never previously been wedded.
                    The poor man makes a new marriage, not having divorced his wife in
                    the House of Lords; his new marriage is null; his children are bastards; and he
                    himself is liable to be put on his trial for bigamy: the allotted punishment for
                    which crime, at one time was hanging, and is now imprisonment. Not always
                    offending knowingly,—for nothing can exceed the ignorance of the poor on this subject; they believe a Magistrate can
                    divorce them; that an absence of seven years constitutes a nullity of the
                    marriage tie; or that they can give each other reciprocal permission to divorce:
                    and among some of our rural populations, the grosser belief prevails, that a man
                    may legally sell his wife, and so break the bond of union! They
                    believe anything,—rather than what is the fact,—viz., that they
                    cannot do legally, that which they know is done legally in the classes above
                    them; that the comfort of the rich man’s home, or the indulgence of the rich
                    man’s passions, receives a consideration in England which the poor need not
                    expect to obtain.
                It is not the law of Scotland. In your Majesty’s kingdom, nothing but “The
                            rapid running of the silver Tweed”divides that portion of the
                    realm where women are protected by law,—from that portion where they are
                        unprotected, though living under the same Sovereign and the
                    same government!
                When, in Queen Anne’s reign, the legislative union of Scotland was completed, the
                    laws relating to trade, customs, and excise, were assimilated to those of
                    England; but other laws remained untouched; and
                    in nothing is there a larger difference than in all matters relating to
                    marriage, divorce, and legitimation of children.
                In Scotland, the wife accused of infidelity defends herself as a matter of
                    course, and as a first process,—instead of suffering by the infamous English
                    action for “damages,” where she is not allowed to interfere, though the result
                    may be to ruin her.
                In Scotland, the property of the wife is protected; rules are made for her
                    “aliment” or support; and her clothes and “paraphernalia” cannot be seized by
                    her husband.
                In Scotland, above all, the law has power to divorce a vinculo, so as to enable either
                    party to marry again; and the right of the wife to apply for such divorce is
                    equal with the right of the husband; that license for inconstancy, taken out
                    under the English law by the English husband,—as one of the masculine
                    gender,—being utterly unknown to the Scottish courts.
                This condition of the English law; its anomalies, its injustice, its actions for
                    damages and crim. con., and its perpetual contradictions, have long marked it
                    out for reform. At various times, and on
                    various occasions, it has been pronounced,—not by wailing, angry, and
                    complaining women, but by men,—senators and judges,—to be
                    “barbarous”—“indecent”—“oppressive”—“anomalous and preposterous”—“utterly
                    disgraceful.” When the Marriage Reform Bill was brought in, the late Lord
                    Beaumont stigmatised the examinations before the House of Lords in divorce
                    cases, as “disgusting and demoralising.” Lord Campbell
                    spoke of passing Bills of Divorce through the two Houses of Parliament as a “scandalous practice.” Lord St. Leonards, while he affirmed
                    that no measure would be satisfactory, that did not reconcile the conflict of
                    our jurisprudence with the Scottish law, declared the present English action for
                    “damages” to be a “disgrace to the country”—“a stigma on the law of England”—“an
                        action which shocked one’s sense of what was right.” Lord Brougham,—so
                    long as sixteen years ago,—spoke of the law as regards a woman’s earnings in
                    this most forcible language,—“Could anything be more harsh or
                        cruel,” he said, “than that the wife’s goods and
                        chattels should be at the mercy of the husband, and that she might work and
                        toil for an unkind father to support his family and children, while the husband repaid her with harshness and
                        brutality, he all the time rioting and revelling in extravagance and
                        dissipation, and squandering in the company of guilty paramours the produce
                        of her industry? The law was silent to the complaints of such a
                    woman.”
                In short, the gentlemen of England—members of both Houses—have severally
                    denounced in the most unmeasured terms, the present laws for women; and
                    unanimously agreed that they ought to be reformed. Commissioners were
                    accordingly “ordered to report,” and they reported. Lord Cranworth undertook to
                    bring in the measure which was to set all to rights; and after some delay, he
                    presented a bill, with his plan for future alterations. Any one would have
                    imagined, after the decided admissions of evil on the part of all concerned,
                    that this bill would have proposed some sweeping change; the establishment of a
                    judicial tribunal, as in Scotland and France, which should have complete
                        power in matrimonial causes; and better laws of protection for women.
                    Not at all. The gist of the new bill, was simply to take away power from the
                    Ecclesiastical Courts, and transfer it to the Court of Chancery. It was full of
                    contradictions. It professed to deprive the House of Lords of the power of granting divorces, and yet made the House of Lords
                    the court of appeal “en dernier ressort,” from
                    the proposed new tribunal. It proposed to “leave the law as it stood,” with
                    regard to the right of the wife to apply for divorce; and, in reality, created a
                    new, definite, and anomalous limit; for whereas at present the power of
                        applying for (if not of obtaining) a Divorce Act,
                    exists for all women who conceive themselves wronged—the Chancellor proposed to
                    classify what were insupportable wrongs, and grant the remedy only to such women
                    as could plead them. Stripped of confusion and technicalities, the object of the
                    bill was simply this; to make it statute law, (instead of Parliamentary
                    practice, as at present,) that marriage should be dissoluble in England; that
                    husbands should divorce their wives, but not wives their husbands; and that the
                    richer class should have the benefit of their riches, by the process remaining
                    comparatively expensive. Only that all this was to be arranged by a different
                    and more decent method. The bill was discussed; opposed; and withdrawn. No
                    lawyer, of whatever eminence, ever yet proposed a measure in either House of
                    Parliament, that all the other lawyers did not rise one by one to tell him that they “objected to the machinery
                    of his bill,” and that its provisions were “wholly impracticable.” They did so
                    on the present occasion. In one thing only they generally agreed, they
                    congratulated Lord Cranworth upon that portion of his plan which provided that
                    Justice should have her scales ready weighted in favour of the stronger
                    party—viz., that women should by no means be discouraged from forgiving their
                    husbands, by enacting that adultery in the male sex should be considered a
                    ground of divorce—“as in Scotland.”
                It is with timid reluctance, that I permit myself to allude to the social
                    condition of that unhappy country. To all loyal minds it must be matter for
                    grave and sorrowful reflection, that while your Majesty is surrounded with
                    faithful wives and discreet ladies in London,—Windsor,—and Osborne,—the less
                    cautious portion of the realm in which Balmoral is situated, is plunged in the
                    grossest immorality. England is virtuous; but Scotland is “a hot?bed of vice.”
                    It is a land dedicated to Cupid. Statues of Venus are set up in all the
                    principal squares of Edinburgh. The marriage?tie is a mere true lovers’ knot.
                    The ladies who present themselves at Holyrood are triumphant Messalinas. And on the decks of the emigrant vessels which
                    crowd the harbour of Leith, groups of melancholy cast?off husbands may be seen,
                    bidding reproachful farewell to that inhospitable country where they only exist
                    to be repudiated!
                The Scotch ladies will deny their guilt. They will deny that the upper classes of
                    their nation have proved themselves more immoral than the upper classes in
                    England. But they are contradicted by the Lord Chancellor and the whole house of
                    English Peers. That body of senators have pronounced, that to permit women in
                    England to have the privilege accorded to the women of Scotland, would be
                    productive of the grossest immorality and of multitudinous divorce. Now, to
                    support that position, one of three things must be capable of proof. Either,
                    having witnessed the effect of the Divorce Laws of Scotland,—and perceiving its
                    women to be a nation of lost creatures,—English legislators refuse to copy those
                    laws, lest English women become as profligate as Scotch women; or else (and this
                    is a reason to be carefully considered) they fear to trust English women with a
                    privilege which their colder Caledonian sisters are less likely to abuse: or,
                    lastly, the extreme and universal profligacy of English husbands leads them to
                        dread that if English women could once
                    obtain the same privilege of divorce, which is accorded to Scotch women, two
                    Englishmen out of three would immediately be discarded by their helpmates; in
                    that startling proportion recorded by Sir Walter Scott in his poem of the Bridal
                    of Triermain:—“And still these lovers’ faith survives,Their truth so constant shewn;There were two who loved their
                            neighbor’s wives,And ONE—who
                            loved his own.”
                Oh! is it not a sad and marvellous thing, that professional prejudice, and the
                    prejudice of sex, can so warp and bend high and honourable minds, that a man
                    like Lord Cranworth, in Lord Cranworth’s position,—the most responsible for
                    justice in England;—should take the view Lord Cranworth took—to use the
                    arguments Lord Cranworth used—in support of what? In support of a measure to
                        legalise a special indulgence to the animal passions of
                    men.
                Lord Campbell, when some doubt is expressed whether divorce ought to be permitted
                    at all, to either sex, rises and says divorce of the wife is “in accordance with
                    Scripture.” In what portion of Holy Writ does he find it in “accordance with Scripture” that adultery is no sin in a
                    man? Are not men warned not only against sin, but even against wandering
                    desires? For whom is the text—“Whoso looketh on a woman to lust after her, hath
                    already committed adultery with her in his heart”? Or to whom was the reproach
                    addressed—“For the hardness of your hearts Moses gave you this law”? Are we to
                    have one religion for women and another for men, as we have already one law for
                    women and another for men,—ecclesiastical law for the woman, and common law for
                    the man?
                The holy Roman Catholic rule is, that marriage is indissoluble for either party.
                        That rule all can understand and reverence. But that marriage
                    should be dissoluble for one sex only, and only for the wealthy of that sex;
                    that it should be made a sacrament for the poor and for women, and a civil
                    contract for gentlemen,—who is to understand that?
                Roman Catholic countries are governed by one general rule; but your Majesty
                    governs a kingdom “divided against itself.” Split up into different forms of
                    religious dissent, and the law following that dissent into holes and corners; so
                    that justice becomes a sort of game of hide and seek, and they who find her,
                    light upon her by chance. Your Majesty’s
                    subjects north and south of the Tweed are all “at sixes and sevens” as to what
                    should be the law. Yet they are all the subjects of one Queen; the English
                    ladies whom no amount of ill?usage can divorce, and the Scotch ladies who can
                    divorce so easily. Nay, in the same family different persons find
                    themselves under different laws. I am myself united to one member of a family in
                    which there are five marriages; in two of which, (being Scotch marriages), the
                    right of divorce would be equal,—while three (being English marriages) could
                    only be dissolved in favour of the husband, and by Act of Parliament. Here,
                    then, are five of your Majesty’s subjects, born in one home; of the same
                    parents: and three of the brood are drafted off to be under the English law,—and
                    two to be under Scotch laws, which contradict the English law in every
                    particular! Is that, or is it not, a ridiculous state of things to exist in any
                    kingdom?
                But as if that did not make the grotesque confusion sufficiently obvious, it
                    appears that even south of the Tweed, your Majesty’s Peers and Commons cannot in
                    the least agree among themselves what is, or ought to be, the law with respect
                    to marriage!
                
                Lord Hardwicke’s Marriage Act, of 1754, declared null, all marriages not
                    celebrated by a priest in orders: and made it indispensable that the ceremony
                    should take place in some parish church, or public chapel, unless by special
                    license from the Archbishop of Canterbury. But Lord John Russell’s Act, of 1836,
                    permits person, on the contrary, to be married according to any form they
                    choose; they need never see a church or a priest; but by merely repairing to the
                    “Registrar,” giving certain notices, and procuring certain certificates, they
                    acquire a right to have the ceremony performed, in places registered and
                    appropriated for the purpose.
                More recently, Lord Redesdale,—speaking on the Lord Chancellor’s Bill,—says he
                    shall oppose any divorce law, and considers marriage should be
                    “indissoluble:” But Lord St. Leonards affirms, that “it won’t do at this time of
                    day” to speak of the indissoluble nature of marriage; and that the only question
                    is, what shall be the machinery of the new law for its dissolution? Lord
                    Clancarty (an Irishman) complains that Ireland is not mentioned in the bill, and
                    speaks of marriage as a “divine ordinance.” But Lord Campbell (a Scotchman)
                    pooh?poohs the idea of its being a divine ordinance, and says that mar? riage was held indissoluble in times of
                        Popery, but is not held so now; and on that very account
                    a judicial instead of an ecclesiastical jurisdiction ought now to be
                    established. While Mr. Phinn, in the other House, thus clearly defines the
                    position laid down by Lord Campbell:—“An important alteration has been made in
                    the law of the country. Up to a recent period it had been a question agitated by
                    lawyers, whether marriage was not a religious contract, requiring the sanction
                    of the church. That question has been settled by the Legislature, and marriage
                    is now a Civil Contract.”
                Lord Redesdale,—reluctantly succumbing to the Chancellor’s “civil contract”
                    views,—thinks, at least, divorce should not be made too cheap, as it would then
                    become too common; on which, Lord Brougham (who many a day of his long energetic
                    life, has stood sentinel to guard the rights of the people), shrewdly enquires
                    whether his lordship means that the proposed new divorce law “shall not apply to
                    19?20ths of the inhabitants of this country, but only to the 1?20th who can
                    afford to pay for it?”
                Then your Majesty’s Lord High Chancellor defines it as his opinion,
                    that divorce a vinculo should remain
                    moderately expensive, and be granted only
                        to husbands;—but can he convince your Majesty’s Lord High
                    Chamberlain, the Marquis of Breadalbane, and the Scotch Peers who come from the
                    other side of the Tweed, where the law is precisely reversed in both those
                    particulars?
                Finally, Lord Clancarty says, if there must be a law of divorce, he
                    cannot for the life of him see how we can establish a distinction between the
                    sin of the man and the woman, which never was established by divine law;—while
                    the Bishop of Oxford, religiously ignoring Lord John Russell’s Bill of 1836,
                    Lord Cranworth’s opinion, Lord Campbell’s explanation, and the actual law of the
                    northern portion of your Majesty’s dominions,—says he shall move to omit all the
                    clauses of the Bill countenancing any divorce whatever.
                And at the end of this confused skirmish of opinions, the Bill drops, and is
                    given up; the Chancellor, like the Runic sorceress, exclaims,—“Leave me,
                            leave me, to repose:”and all go away home; like a party of
                    miners who have given up the attempt to dig out persons buried in superincumbent
                    earth! They would be very glad to do something towards amending the laws for women, but really “the subject
                    is so surrounded with difficulty.”
                Why is it so surrounded with difficulty? Why is England the only
                    country obliged to confess that she cannot contrive to administer justice to
                    women? Why is it more difficult than in France? Why more difficult than in
                    Scotland? Simply because our legists and legislators insist on binding tares
                    with wheat, and combining all sorts of contradictions which they never will be
                    able satisfactorily to combine. They never will satisfy, with
                    measures that give one law for one sex and the rich, and another law for the
                    other sex and the poor. Nor will they ever succeed in acting on the legal
                    fiction that married women are “non?existent,” and man and wife are still “one,”
                    in cases of alienation, separation, and enmity; when they are about as much
                    “one” as those ingenious twisted groups of animal death we sometimes see in
                    sculpture; one creature wild to resist, and the other fierce to destroy.
                Nor does all this confusion arise, because the law is professedly too weak for
                    the necessary control which would prevent it. The law is strong enough when it
                    interferes with labour,—with property,—with the guardianship of chil? dren,—with the rights of speculative industry. We
                    find no difficulty in controlling the merchant in his factories, the master with
                    his apprentices, nor in the protection of persons in all other dependant
                    positions. We find no difficulty in punishing the abuse of power, or discovered
                    crime. It suffices that it be proved that wrong was committed, and punishment
                    follows as a matter of course.
                The poor cabin boy is on the high seas. The steward, or the captain, or a brutal
                    messmate, maltreats the boy. He is bruised,—he is maimed,—he is miserable,—that
                    meagre shuffling over?worked lad, whose very surname perhaps nobody knows: some
                    little outcast Tom, Jack, or Jim, sent to sea by the parish. Is there no law for
                        him? Is it “so surrounded with difficulty” that no
                    punishment shall reach those who maltreated him? Read the police report. Though
                    that life seemed as unimportant as a grain of sand, it is cared for. The Spirit
                    of Justice moved with that ship “over the face of the waters,” and English law
                    and public government avenge him, who perhaps had not one private friend in the
                    world.
                The wandering pedlar trudges over the moor—his pack is heavy; his step is slow;
                    he is dogged by some villain who saw him rest by the way?side inn. He is two hundred miles away from his
                    real home. He came from the thrifty North, and will plod back there with his
                    savings. Return? No! he will never return. The sharp knife is out—his blood
                    sinks in the short turf where the moorland sheep have been feeding; his moan is
                    lost on the midnight breeze; and his pack is stolen. Is there no law for
                        him? Go and listen in the assize court. There, in the hot glow
                    of summer, amid the buzz of insects and voices, and the loud oratory of
                    declaiming men, you will hear the stillness of that murderous night described;
                    and how its silence and darkness, and the lonely stretch of the apparently
                    deserted heath, failed to shield the modern Cain from the observation of that
                    one “chance witness,” whom God seems ever to leave standing sentinel to watch
                    for undiscovered crime. Who would have thought the treasure of that poor
                    pedlar’s pack was worth two men’s lives? Yet one was taken by murder, and now
                    this other is forfeited to Justice; to prove—that the poorest of the Queen’s
                    subjects shall not wander on her highways without the same protection of life
                    and property, that guards the fringed canopy of a duke’s bed!
                Protection for life and property. Is that all?
                    Is happiness nothing? Is reputation nothing? Is the law only able to ward off
                    the assassin’s knife, or make restitution of stolen coin? Is it able to protect
                    the poorest, the meanest, the most apparently helpless persons in the realm, and
                    not able to protect women? Are the only laws in England “so surrounded with
                    difficulty” that they cannot possibly be re?modelled to any pattern of equal
                    justice, the laws between man and wife?
                I think not. I think if men would approach them with the same impartial wish to
                    make rules of protection, that is brought to bear on other subjects, they would
                    find the same facility in applying those rules.
                Now, with respect to the condition and effect of the laws for women in Scotland,
                    it came out incidentally in the debate on the Marriage Bill, that the total
                    amount of all the divorces in that misguided country, during the last five
                    years, only averaged twenty in all classes; and this was not stated in defence
                    of Scotch morality, but as a means of calculating what might be expected in
                    England under a new system.
                In Scotland, then, though the right of divorce be equal,—and the
                    process so easy that even if the party accused left the kingdom, he or she could still be proceeded against by what was
                    termed “edictal citation,”—(or reading the citation aloud at the market?cross of
                    Edinburgh, and the pier and shore of Leith), an average of twenty couples only,
                    availed themselves of the law, the existence of which so alarms English
                    legislators.
                Very sparing, indeed, are the cases recorded as disputed precedents. Towards the
                    end of the last century the Duchess of Hamilton divorced the Duke, as a
                    Scotchman, though married by English ritual in England. In 1810, Lady Paget
                    divorced Lord Paget, though he pleaded a reconciliation after his original
                    desertion. In 1813, Catherine Pollock divorced Russell Manners, for desertion
                    for ten years andinfidelity. Previous to which cases, Sir T. Wallace Dunlop had
                    the singular good fortune of being proceeded against for divorce by both his
                    first and second wife. The first wife succeeded; but the second failed; not for
                    want of proof of his misconduct, but because her marriage was held to be
                        an English marriage, and so, indissoluble by the Scotch
                    Courts.
                It is expressly stated that the number of Scotch cases in proportion to the
                    population, remained nearly the same at all periods, since the Commissioners were appointed in 1563 down to the
                    present time; and that the conjugal relation “stood not less, but infinitely
                    more sacred and secure in Scotland” since total divorce was made possible, in
                    lieu of separation under ecclesiastical law. Indeed, it will scarcely be urged
                    that it is a more favourable condition for morality, that a woman
                    should remain for life nominally married to a man who has deserted her (as under
                    the English law), than that she should have power to divorce him and marry
                    again, as under the Scotch law.
                But Lord Chancellor Cranworth argued the question in a very singular manner; and
                    I give his argument as it stands in the printed report of the debate of June 14,
                    1854:—First, as to the lighter causes of divorce, admitted in Scotland, he
                        says:—“If marriages could be dissolved for cruelty or desertion, the
                        husband may dissolve his marriage whenever he pleases; he has only to
                            be tyrannical to his wife, or to desert her, to effect the very object
                            he has in view. Therefore I do not at all propose to alter what
                        has been—I will not say the law,—because in point of fact there has been no
                        law—but the practice on this subject.”
                Then, as to that graver interruption of domestic quiet, inconstancy, he says:—
                    “If adultery on the part of the husband is to entitle him to a
                        divorce,—inasmuch as the husband (which may be bad morality, but it is the
                        fact) suffers little on that account in the opinion of the world at large
                        (for it is notorious that, while the wife who commits adultery loses her
                        station in society, that punishment is not awarded to the husband who is
                        guilty of the same crime) he may, without any great sacrifice on his
                            own part, but by merely being a little profligate, get rid of his
                        wife whenever he chooses to do so.”
                And Lord Campbell, in a subsequent debate, July 1, strikes out another
                    suggestion; he objects to granting divorces to women, on account of
                    the ease with which adultery in the husband is (or ought to be) forgiven by the
                    wife!
                
                    “He thought his noble and learned friend had wisely abstained from following
                        the example of Scotland and other countries, in which the wife
                        had a right to have the marriage dissolved on account of the adultery of the
                        husband. The moral guilt incurred by the husband was the same,—but in most
                        cases it might be CONDONED.”
                
                In short, what between their dread of encouraging the husband to be “a little
                    profligate,” in order to get rid of his wife,—and fear of inclining the wife to
                    be unforgiving, in the prospect of getting rid of her husband,—they think it
                    best that justice should be not merely impro?
                    bable, as at present, but made utterly impossible for the woman to
                    obtain.
                Again I say, it is perfectly marvellous what clever and honourable men will say
                    and do when blinded by strong prejudice! Here are these two great lawyers
                    talking as though the divorce of the wife could be made compulsory on the wife,
                    or dependant on her simple resolution. Is the wife, after all, to be her
                        own judge? No; the judge is her judge; the Lord Chancellor himself is
                    her judge; the House of Lords is her judge. The possibility of
                        applying for a divorce a
                        vinculo, does not suddenly invest her with an authority like that
                    of the patriarch Abraham, to send forth her husband, like weeping Hagar, into
                    the desert world. She is to apply for her divorce to the judicial tribunal: to
                    that Chancellor who speaks of an adulterous husband as being “a little
                    profligate:” to that House of Lords which has entertained feminine applications
                    with so much jealousy and reluctance, that there have been but four cases (two
                    of them cases of incest), in which the wife’s petition for divorce has ever been
                    granted. With these judges, and not with the wife, rests the decision whether
                    she has refused that indulgence which ought to be a part of her nature, and is
                    the principal charm of her sex, —or whether,
                    wronged, outraged, and forsaken, she has borne to the last verge of endurance
                    before she appealed to the law! With these judges, and not with the wife,
                    remains the great decree which will pronounce whether “condonation” was or was
                    not absolutely impossible, under the circumstances she pleads as her argument
                    for liberty.
                No doubt, in numberless instances, condonation is possible. So far
                    we will grant Lord Cranworth’s argument. A man may yield to the temptation of
                    passion, who yet at heart loves and respects his wife; and feels, after his
                    delusion is over, a real shame and repentance. Nor is want of chastity the only
                    sin in the world;—a woman who is a chaste wife may fill her husband’s days with
                    unendurable bitterness; and a man who has lapsed in his observance of the
                    marriage vow, may nevertheless be a kindly husband and father, with whom
                    reconcilement would be a safe and blessed generosity. If we add to these
                    admissions, woman’s natural lingering love for her companion; love undeniable;
                    indisputable; love evidenced each day, even among the poor creatures who come
                    bruised and bleeding before the police courts; refusing to give evidence, in a
                    calmer hour, against the man such evidence would condemn to punishment: if we add the love of children; the dread of breaking
                    the bond which shall perhaps help a step?mother into the mother’s vacated place:
                    if we add the obvious interest, in almost every instance, which the woman has to
                    remain in her home; and the horror most women must feel at the idea of the
                    public exposure and discussion of such wrongs; it is evident they would not be
                    so very eager to avail themselves, in usual cases, of the extreme
                    remedy.
                But in unusual cases—in cases of the dreary, stormy, deserted
                    life—where profligacy, personal violence, insult, and oppression, fill up the
                    measure of that wrong which pardon cannot reach,—why is there to be no rescue
                    for the woman? Why is such a man to be sheltered under the Lord Chancellor’s
                    term of “only a little profligate,”—and “condonation” be supposed the only
                    proper notice of his conduct?
                While the laws that women appeal to, are administered by men, we need not fear
                    that their appeals will be too carelessly granted. No statement can be more
                    incontrovertible than the Lord Chancellor’s dictum, that the profligate husband “suffers little in the
                    opinion of the world at large.” It were well if he were held harmless only by public opinion: but he is also held harmless
                    by LAW.
                In the very session during which Lord Cranworth’s Bill was discussed, some
                    remarkable cases occurred, both in the upper and lower classes; some of which
                    were public, and some not. I give the latter, therefore, without the names. It
                    is enough for me; that your Majesty knows these cases did occur;
                    and this record of what the English law was, in your Majesty’s reign, will
                    remain,—when the names shall signify no more than the N. or M. in the Church
                    Catechism.
                In the upper classes, a young peer deserted his young wife (then near her
                    confinement of her first child), informing her as his reason for doing so, that
                    he had always preferred his mistress, to whom he should now return, and bid his
                    wife farewell for ever.
                In that case, whether by the interference of friends, or the generosity and
                    discretion of the “condoning” wife, a reconciliation was effected: but had this
                    desirable event not taken place, the law of England is as follows:—
                This young deserted wife, not yet a mother, would remain as much the wife of her
                    deserting husband, as if they were the happiest couple that ever honey?mooned
                    under one roof. She did well to “condone,” for
                    she was utterly at his mercy. If, in the course of the long years of loneliness
                    which her future was to bring, the husband imagined there was anything in
                        her conduct which might bear evil construction, he had the same
                    right to divorce her he had before they parted; but she could not divorce
                        him. Under no circumstances,—of libel, insult, or attempt to
                    defame her without cause,—though he added half a dozen mistresses to the first,
                    could she break her marriage with him. He would have
                    the right, for any number of years, to dog her from place to place, sending
                    attorneys to “make enquiries” at all her places of residence, calculated to slur
                    her reputation, even if he succeeded in nothing more. Her pleading his
                    desertion, or their separation, would not bar his right. The English law takes
                    no cognisance of separations, and does not divorce for the husband’s adultery
                    and desertion, as in Scotland. Neither (unless by special settlement, contract
                    through third parties, or suit for alimony following a suit in the
                    Ecclesiastical Courts) would he be bound to support her, or pay any debt of
                    hers, if she had an income of her own, sufficient without his aid. She could not
                    marry any other man: but must remain, as the
                    Lord Chancellor things it just that women should remain in such cases, married
                        to the name of the husband, who has free leave, in law, to
                    forsake her, spend his fortune on his mistress, or mistresses, watch his
                    opportunity (if possible) to divorce her, and “suffering little in
                    the opinion of the world at large,” remain, himself, triumphantly, undivorceable
                    through life! In an instance of desertion some years ago, the husband lived at
                    an hotel, calling his mistress by his wife’s name, and took lodgings for her in
                    his wife’s name, with perfect impunity. Where was the remedy? There was
                    none.
                A second case last session, was one in which a married man of rank came to
                    England, to dispute the guardianship of an infant child born of a double
                    adultery; the married lady who was its mother having been divorced for his sake.
                    The evil bond between them being already broken, each desired to retain this
                    “pledge of love,” the person of the little child. It was seized by the mother;
                    regained by the father; made the subject of police struggles on the Continent,
                    and of a threatening scandal in England. What the law would have decided in that
                    wonderful case, of a man coming to claim under the law, a child born out of the
                    law, from the hapless mother who had already
                    suffered irreparable wrong and degradation on account of its birth,—I do not
                    know, but this I do know, that this claimant of his illegitimate
                    child has the same right, under the English law, to the guardianship of his
                    legitimate children, as any other husband would have: a right to interfere with
                    their possession by his wife,—though his legitimate children are girls; and his
                    open claim of his illegitimate child, and his having been the public cause of
                    the divorce of its mother, gives his wife no right whatever to divorce
                        him “a vinculo”; nor is there
                    the remotest possibility, under the English law, of breaking her marriage. His
                    wife she is; and his wife she must remain, even if she were never to see him
                    again; and if he were the father of as many natural children as Charles II.
                A third case (to which I shall recur) is my own: in which, after personal
                    violence, ill?usage, an “action for damages,” and a long separation, the
                    husband—being desirous to raise money,—procured a contract to be signed between
                    himself and his wife, containing certain provisions as to his trust?funds, and
                    as to her income, both before and after the death of certain parties. That
                    contract was witnessed and signed by the husband himself; by the solicitor who
                    drew it up, —a gentleman distinguished in his
                    own branch of the legal profession: and by the Hon. Edmund Phipps, brother to
                    the Marquis of Normanby, your Majesty’s Minister at the Court of Tuscany, and to
                    the Hon. Charles Phipps, Treasurer to the Prince Consort.
                When the income so secured (or supposed to be secured), was claimed for
                    creditors, the husband, in this case, refused to pay it. The law of England
                    proved to be, that the wife being “non?existent,” or one with the husband,
                        could not legally make any contract with him. The signature of
                    the husband, the signature of the brother of those other distinguished persons
                    in your Majesty’s service,—and the signature of the lawyer who drew up the
                    agreement,—all failed to make it more valuable than a sheet of blank paper. The
                    wife, who might have compelled the execution of such a contract had she been a
                    menial servant, was left without a remedy, because she was a wife;
                    and without further explanation than that “the law” would hold her husband
                    harmless, for mocking her and mocking the gentlemen who had added their
                    signatures, by offering this fictitious security.
                In lower life,—occurring as an illustration of the divorce laws for the rich,—a
                        respectable tradesman was tried for bigamy,
                    and convicted. The second wife deposed, that he had courted her for six years;
                    had no money with her; on the contrary, supplied her with money since his
                    apprehension; had always been very kind; and that they had a child of his,
                    residing with them. The undivorced wife was living with an omnibus man, and had
                    been in a lunatic asylum. Mr. Russell Gurney, in deciding the case, observed,
                    with epigrammatic truth, that “this was one of those unfortunate cases, in
                    which, in the present state of the law, if a man was not possessed of
                        wealth, he had no power to remedy his situation:” and knowing (as we
                    do know), that if, instead of plain Mr Gray and obscure Mary Adams, these
                    parties had been Lord Grayton and Lady Mary, we should simply have had
                    “Grayton’s Divorce Bill” going quietly through the House of Lords, we can
                    scarcely wonder if murmurs arise, against this wonderful system of
                    legislation.
                In an old fashioned book (written by a favourite of your Majesty’s Uncle, George
                    the Fourth), the author says: “if a poor man were to appear in the lobby of the
                    House of Lords, praying to be divorced gratis
                    from his wife, it is likely that the Sergeant?at?Arms would take him for some poor lunatic, and send him to Bedlam;
                    yet I can see no reason why a countryman should not be divorced at Quarter
                    Sessions, as well as a nobleman in the House of Lords.” Nor I—if divorce is to
                    be allowed at all.
                In humble life, again (though no worse off than if she had been provided for by a
                    contract bearing the signatures of one of the Metropolitan Magistrates, and the
                    brother of your Majesty’s Ambassador, and Prince Albert’s Treasurer), a Mrs
                    Adsett claimed support from her husband, a gun?maker. The husband very coolly
                    informed the Magistrate that he could not support her; on the contrary,
                        for some months she had supported him; but she might “come back to
                    him.” The wife replied that he had a mistress, and she had three children. The
                    magistrates remarked that they were “very sorry,” but the wife must go “to the
                    home provided for her:”—mistress or no mistress:—the law of England not making
                    that a ground of special protection. “Starve, or condone.” Take the children,
                    and go to the husband, who is “a little profligate,”—and who is supported by
                    you, that he may spend his money on his concubine.
                That is the language of the law.
                It is, however, satisfactory to learn, that
                    although women are not protected in England, property
                    is guarded by the most stringent rules; and to balance the indignation we might
                    feel at broken contracts, earnings wasted on mistresses, and general oppression,
                    we are comforted by knowing that in February, this year, Sir Baldwin Leighton
                    having convicted his gamekeeper of sending a present of two dead rabbits to a
                    person in Shrewsbury, after he had agreed to look after 2,000 acres of land,
                    without perquisites,—the magistrates,—with expressions of regret (several
                    country magistrates coming forward to give the gamekeeper an excellent
                    character), sentenced him to imprisonment, as “guilty of what the law called
                    larceny.” And we are further edified by an incidental statement of Lord Brougham
                    (in discussing a bill now pending), that, in 1849, three men, each approaching
                    70 years of age, were tried at different sessions, in a county, the name of
                    which he would not mention. One was sentenced to six weeks’ imprisonment with
                    hard labour, for stealing to the amount of about 1d.; another to
                    eight weeks’ hard labour for stealing to the amount of ½d.; and a
                    third to four weeks’ hard labour for stealing to the amount of ¼d.
                    Nor had he reason to believe that there were any aggravating circumstances in their cases. He knew, indeed, of another
                    case, in a different county, in which a man in his 70th year, was sentenced to
                        twelve months’ imprisonment with hard labour for stealing to the
                        amount of 3d. But he assumed that in that case there must have been
                    aggravating circumstances.
                No “aggravating circumstances,” however, on the part of a husband, can bring the
                    law to bear upon him; and while the poor man lies in prison a year,
                    for theft to the value of three pence;—while the gamekeeper, hitherto respected
                    and respectable in his station of life, is consigned for a briefer term, to the
                    same abode of guilt, for sending two rabbits to a tradesman’s kitchen,—the
                    “gentleman,” who spends on his mistress the income of his wife, or openly
                    defrauds her on a signed contract,—laughs in the face of justice, and mocks the
                    power of the law.
                In brief, the legal axiom is, that sin is not sin in a man, if it be against a
                    woman; and more especially against the woman he vowed at God’s altar to cherish
                    and protect. Marriage is, according to the great law authorities in and out of
                    Parliament, not a religious bond, but a civil contract. The religious vow, taken
                    by the man in marriage, is merely to give him civil rights over the woman “sworn in” as his special wife. She is
                    bound to afford him every assistance; to be “true till death”; to be obedient to
                    his will; and to “condone” his guilty pleasures—and he is bound to
                    nothing at all, except a nominal union, much resembling in its principle that
                    singular invention, the Russian “Drosky,” in which we see one horse harnessed
                    within shafts, and drawing the weight of the carriage, and the other caracoling
                    and frisking in the most light agreeable and ornamental manner by its side, but
                    bearing no part of the restraint imposed.
                Mr. Gladstone, speaking on the Marriage Amendment Bill, says that “when the
                    gospel came into the world, woman was elevated to an equality with her stronger
                    companion,”—and that there is “perfect equality between man and woman as far as
                    the marriage tie is concerned,”—and he asks whether it is now “intended to have
                    one marriage code for men and another for women?” But I say, there is
                        already one marriage code for men and another for women: and as
                    to the gospel view of woman’s position,—in vain are women pointed out as “the
                    last at the cross, and the first at the tomb;” in vain, one of that humbled sex
                    was made the mother of the Saviour of mankind; in vain, all through the gospel pages, their faith, their sorrows,
                    their errors, are held up as obtaining attention and mercy from the divine “Man
                    of sorrows and acquainted with grief,” who wept with the sisters of Lazarus, and
                    comforted the widow of Nain. A sneer is the only answer to Mr. Gladstone’s
                    “gospel” doctrine; and the only text on the subject acknowledged by Parliament,
                    is the Old Testament text: “and he shall rule over her.” We keep
                    the doctrine of the Fall—not of the Redemption.
                There was, indeed, an old?fashioned time when an attempt was made to show legal
                    discouragement to men who were “a little profligate.” We read that in the reign
                    of James I. Sir Pecksael Brocas—(probably, by his name, a sinner of Dutch
                    extraction)—“having been convicted of many notorious adulteries,” was made to do
                    penance, by standing in a white sheet at St. Paul’s Cross, holding a stick in
                    his hand. But for the most part, the state of law, and of public opinion, has
                    been very much what the Lord Chancellor Cranworth thinks it may fairly remain.
                    If Lord Cranworth goes through that process which the wisest of witty men, and
                    the wittiest of wise men,—the late Sydney Smith,—called “putting a
                        spine to history,” and connects the
                    various events of different reigns, it must be a satisfaction to him to remark,
                    how widely different has been the measure dealt to sinful Kings and erring
                    Queens. We trace the incontinence of the former by successive creations in the
                    peerage; and the faults of the latter, by records of imprisonment and death on
                    the scaffold.
                What the exact degree of Anne Boleyn’s guilt may have been, accused as she was of
                    crimes which even at the time no one believed she had committed:—what the
                    balance of indiscretion or vice in that fair Queen of Scots, who sate in her
                    narrow prison?room in your Majesty’s Palace of Holyrood, embroidering
                    head?dresses for her vain rival Queen Elizabeth, with a weak attempt at
                    propitiation:—
                What the real history was, of Sophia Dorothea,—Queen of George I., mother of
                    George II., and grandmother of Frederick the Great,—who pined away the years of
                    an English reign, in a Hanoverian dungeon; parted from her children; having seen
                    the man for whom she was slandered, die like Rizzio, poniarded and buried under
                    the floor of her dressing?room: and who yet retained strength and courage for
                    that noble reply, when urged to supplicate for a
                        reconciliation:—“No —if I am
                    guilty, I am not worthy to be your Queen; if I am innocent, your King is not
                    worthy to be my husband:”—
                How far Caroline of Brunswick was pre?judged and fore?doomed, when she came to
                    this country, to find the Countess of Jersey already appointed her
                    lady?in?waiting, and to be welcomed—not as a bride, but as a scrip?share, by
                    that indebted Prince, who had pledged his royal word he was not already married
                    to Mrs. Fitzherbert:—
                What the truth was, in short,—respecting all or any of these dead Queens,—over
                    whose senseless dust contending historians still do battle,—we can never
                    know.
                But this we do know; that the punishment, here, of
                    those sins which have no distinction in Divine law, was meted very differently
                    to them and their royal helpmates: that history describes the tyrant husband of
                    Anne Boleyn, as one “who never spared man in his wrath, or woman in his lust:”
                    that the great?grandson of scaffold—sentenced Mary—the son of scaffold?sentenced
                    Charles,—popularly known by the name of “the merry monarch,”—had so many natural
                    children by various mothers, that they formed quite a group in the peerage;
                    occupying the Dukedoms of Monmouth—Southampton—Grafton—North? umberland—St. Alban’s—Somerset—and Richmond;—two of
                    which titles—Grafton and St. Alban’s—remain in direct line from Charles, down to
                    the present time. We know, that his court was an example of the most extravagant
                    and unpunished licentiousness: that Sir John Denham and the Earl of Chesterfield
                    were both accused in his reign of poisoning their wives (the latter
                    administering the poison in the wine of the Holy Communion); and that the King’s
                    “merry” favorite, the Duke of Buckingham, killed the Earl of Shrewsbury and held
                    a love appointment with the Earl’s wife the same evening. We know, that his
                    brother, James II. had, by Mrs. Churchill (sister of the Duke of Marlborough),
                    the Duke of Berwick—the Grand Prior—and others; and, by Mrs. Sedley, a daughter
                    created Countess of Dorchester, and one, divorced from the Earl of Anglesea, who
                    became Duchess of Buckingham. And we know that the husband of the slandered and
                    imprisoned Dorothea of Zell, having married her only for the sake of uniting the
                    dominions of the family, was utterly unfaithful to her; that Madlle. Schulenberg
                    (created Duchess of Kendal)—Madame Kilmanseg—and that “best beloved mistress of
                    the King,”—the beautiful Countess of Platen, afterwards Countess of Darlington—accompanied him to the England which
                    his lawful wife was held unworthy to see, and supplied her place in his
                    affections, and his royal palaces, while she lived and died in prison.
                This also we know,—that the son of that mournful queen,—George II., lived as his
                    father had lived—very cheerfully; and two anecdotes are related of his court,
                    worthy to be remembered. One, that Mr. Howard, husband of one of the King’s
                    mistresses (afterwards Countess of Suffolk), went to St. James’s Palace,
                    publicly to demand his wife; and, being thrust out, sent a letter to her by the
                    Archbishop of Canterbury; who conveyed the summons to the QUEEN, who
                        delivered the letter to her rival! The other anecdote—equally
                    curious—that when his son, the Prince of Wales died, the King (who had been on
                    bad terms with him, and had never visited him in his last illness) was playing
                    cards as usual in Lady Yarmouth’s apartments. A page arrived to tell him his son
                    was no more. He rose without emotion, crossed to Lady Yarmouth’s card?table, and
                    leaning over her chair, said quietly, “Fritz is dead.” And this was a King whose
                    Queen “condoned” everything.
                On the details of the history of George IV.’s
                    queen, no one would desire to dwell. But Dr. Lushington had courage, in pleading
                    her cause, to remark on the ridicule of a man “seeking to be divorced at the age
                    of sixty, from a wife from whom he had been twenty?four years separated, by his
                    own act, and for the gratification of his own appetites.” Her death did not
                    appease him. The chief Magistrate of London, Sir R. Baker, resigned on account
                    of the King’s displeasure at the royal corpse being suffered to pass; and
                    Major?General Sir R. Wilson was removed from the army by royal order, for the
                    part he had taken in the Queen’s favour; on which occasion the public feeling
                    was manifested by a public subscription being raised to compensate the General
                    for the loss of his commission, to the extent of £10,000.
                “There’s such divinity doth hedge a king,” that it is rarely their vices find
                    opposition, even in the church. Charlemagne divorced and married nine wives.
                    When Henry VIII. needed divorces, convenient Cranmer and the convocation granted
                    three in succession,—and when the venerable Fisher, Bishop of Rochester,
                    objected to the King’s views, he paid for it with his poor remnant of life. His
                    letters are extant, a neglected prisoner in the tower; writing vain ap? peals, in the dreary month of December, to the
                    secretary of that bloated and triumphant monarch; pleading, not for life or
                    liberty, but that his clothing was so rent that it did not keep him warm, and
                    his diet so slender that he was well nigh starved, being often given food he was
                    too feeble and aged to eat. What then? In that Tower of London we pass as we go
                    down the river to kindly Nell Gwynne’s hospital at Greenwich, the weak old
                    bishop was left to starve and shiver through the inclement winter, and was
                    executed in the pleasant month of June: and in a year from that time, the
                    “Defender of the Faith and Father of the Reformation” had cut off the head of
                    his adored Anne Boleyn, and was dressed in white and silver as an exultant
                    bridegroom, to marry a fresher love; declaring the children of his former
                    marriage (our Queen Mary and Queen Elizabeth), to be both bastards.
                Other (though less brilliant) examples of the dazzled way in which the vices of
                    great and powerful men are contemplated, might be quoted; of which one is
                    pleasant, on account of the ingenious frivolity of the ground of justification.
                    When, in Luther’s time, the Elector of Hesse wanted to unite himself to the
                    Countess de Saal, he assured Luther that his main reason was—
                    economy: that the extreme expense of the train of attendant
                    carriages, baggage?waggons, etc., necessary when he made progresses through his
                    electorate with that respected princess his legitimate wife, was really more
                    than the finances of the country would bear; while with the Countess de Saal he
                    would feel justified in adopting a much more simple style of travelling; (an
                    historical warning to woman, against too many imperials!) Luther, like Cranmer,
                    bowed to the reasoning of his ruler,—and Lord Campbell may think the Electress
                    could not do better than “condone”; but I much fear the judges’ wives would be a
                    good deal startled by its being held reasonable, when their husbands go
                    circuits, that they and their many travelling trunks should be superseded in
                    favour of a young lady (if there be such a young lady), who would content
                    herself with a single bandbox. Society at large, however, would be satisfied. We
                    have it on the authority of the Lord Chancellor (and, indeed, on the evidence of
                    our own experience), that the profligate husband “suffers little or nothing in
                    the opinion of the world.” The stereotyped homily for the two sexes is
                    different. To the man, the law of the land and the law of
                        custom, speaking by the mouth of the Lord
                    Chief Justice of England, says thus:—
                “Plena indulgentia!” Fear nothing! Let what will happen, nothing can hurt
                        you. Bring your mistresses into your house, or leave your home
                    to reside with them. Give your wife’s name to one, and travel about with her
                    under that profaned designation. You, my poor friend, shall lose none of your
                    rights as a husband and father. Your wife may perhaps resent; but I hope she
                    will rather see the wisdom of “condoning.” Your crime is no crime in the eyes of
                    society; and as to Scripture, the marriage bond is only a civil
                        contract; what have we lawyers to do with Divine Law? Your wife ought
                    to forgive you. You have not been guilty of incest. There is no earthly reason
                    she should not wait patiently until you are satiated with your present course of
                    life, and gladly welcome you back. There is nothing to prevent her pardoning the
                    desertion and persecution of years; even if you have libelled her reputation,
                    and endeavoured to get rid of her by divorce; by accusing her of the sin which
                    at heart you knew she was not guilty of, and you are.
                If she were but guilty, and proved so,—then,
                    indeed, all were easy! To the irrevocable shame, to the inevitable forsaking, to
                    poverty and oblivion—let her pass! it is doom—but it is also justice: it is the
                    mighty arm of the Law which has seized her, and will fling her from the Tarpeian
                    rock of social condemnation, into the dark gulf of overwhelming disgrace.
                But if she be blameless: and if, contumacious and resentful, she harshly refuses
                    to “condone”; if, with blind self?will and arrogance, she has the indecent
                    hardihood to resist, and complain. If she wail and worry for JUSTICE, and talk of the mother who loved—the father who
                    sheltered—the brother who will protect her,—and insist on being “separated” from
                    you and your mistress,—then, my poor friend, I fear we must do
                    something; but we will do as little as possible: we will give her (what, in
                    point of fact, you have already given her), “the Woman’s Divorce”;—leave to
                    remain ALONE. Alone—married to your name. Never to know
                    the protection of this nominal husband—nor the joys of family—nor the every?day
                    companionship of a real home. Never to feel or show preference for any friend
                    not of her own sex; though tempted, perhaps, by a feeling nobler than passion;
                    gratitude for generous pity, that has lightened the dreary days. To be slandered, tormented, insulted; to
                    find the world, and the world’s law, as the Lord Chancellor truly observes,
                    utterly indifferent to her wrongs or her husband’s sin; and through all this to
                    lead a chaste, unspotted, patient, cheerful life; without anger, without
                    bitterness; and with meek respect for those English edicts which, with a
                    perverse parody on Scripture, pronounce that “it is not good for MAN to be alone,”—but extremely good for woman. Hard that a husband
                    should not divorce an adulterous wife! Hard that he should not form a “purer
                    connection!” Hard (though he has a career and occupation out of his
                    own home), that a second chance of domestic happiness should not again greet
                    him!—But not the least hard that his weaker partner, elevated, according to Mr
                    Gladstone, to an equality with him, since the Christian advent,—she, who if she
                    has not a home has nothing—should be left stranded and wrecked on the barren
                    sands, at the foot of the world’s impassive and impassable rocks.
                “Oh! she ought to have condoned: she ought to have been quiet: her
                    friends ought to have hushed it all up.”—Perhaps. But there is one other
                    contingency: there is the contingency that the
                    woman may say: “Would I had been indeed a sinner and divorced, rather than
                        live this life of torment, injustice, and mockery!” Wild words:
                    terrible sinful words: are they not? A bad, shocking woman to say so; nothing of
                    the saint and martyr in her composition. But also a bad law I think. A bad,
                    wicked law, which makes it utterly indifferent whether she can or can not claim
                    to be an innocent woman: and whether her husband is or is not a bad worthless
                    man.
                Either let men renounce the privilege of divorce, and the assertion that marriage
                    is a dissoluble contract,—or allow the weaker party that refuge from intolerable
                    wrong, which they claim as a matter of necessity for themselves. The
                    Ecclesiastical law, which denies the dissolubility of marriages, is
                    intelligible, (though not so intelligible how, that being the case,
                    ecclesiastics re?marry persons divorced by parliament). And the Scotch law,
                    which reverses the ecclesiastical law, and makes marriage dissoluble for both
                    sexes and all classes, is intelligible. But the Lord Chancellor’s Bill, which
                    denies to the poor what it gives to the rich—and grants to the husband what it
                    refuses to the wife—is not intelligible of any principle of
                    justice.
                
                In denying women the equal claim, which even the Ecclesiastical Courts admit, as
                    far as they admit any divorce, Lord Cranworth asserts himself to be
                    wiser than Lord Eldon,—wiser than Lord Thurlow,—and wiser (which is very
                    possible) than Lord Rosslyn; for those three deceased Chancellors, on one and
                    the same occasion, agreed that the principle on which such claim ought to be
                    admitted was simply this: where there was an impossibility of
                        reconciliation. It is true that the particular case on which that
                    debate took place, was a case of incest. It was the first instance of a divorce
                    bill passed in England on the petition of the wife; in the year 1801; in the
                    case of Mr Addison, who had lived with the sister of his wife. But the general
                    argument was not limited to that one crime by Lord Thurlow; and if it had been,
                    what new confusion is to arise, if the bill now pending, for Marriage with a
                    Deceased Wife’s Sister, should become law? Is Lord Cranworth’s exception no
                    longer to deserve that distinction? Or is it to remain incest if combined with
                    adultery; and cease to be incest when combined with marriage? What is to be the
                    rule?
                Lord Thurlow did not attempt to classify, (as Lord Cranworth has done,)
                        what should be held to be
                    unendurable wrong; he said merely, that he had been excited by the bill to
                    examine the whole subject of divorce, and that he was of the opinion the remedy
                    was not confined to the husband. That the principle should be,—the
                    impossibility of reconciliation. He said,—“Why do you grant to
                        the husband a divorce for the adultery of the wife? Because he ought not to
                        forgive; and separation is inevitable. Where the wife cannot forgive,—and
                        separation is inevitable by reason of the crime of the husband,—the wife is
                        entitled to the like remedy. Why should she be condemned, for HIScrime, to spend the rest of her days in the
                        unheard?of?situation, of being neither virgin, wife, nor widow?”
                The speech of Lord Thurlow converted Lord Eldon; the principle was admitted by
                    all; and the Bill of Divorce was granted to the complaining wife.
                It is impossible previously to define a limit for unendurable wrong, though it be
                    possible to judge a case when heard. By the Scotch law, desertion
                    is held to be a sufficient cause; by several of the countries which follow the
                    old Roman law, causes of personal disgust or dislike; this may be erring on the
                    contrary side, and giving too great facility for divorce; but on no principle of common sense can it be fit that there
                    should exist cases of wrong in which the law cannot judge, for that
                    sets a limit to the possibility of justice.
                So long as a husband is not guilty of incest,—a wife, (according to Lords
                    Cranworth and Campbell), has nothing to complain of which she might not
                        “condone.” Yet God knows it seems difficult to imagine what
                    shade of torment, insult, or injury, could be added to what has been endured in
                    my own case. I have learned the law respecting women, piece?meal, by suffering
                    from every one of its defects of protection. I married very young, and my
                    marriage was an unhappy one. My family interfered
                            earnestly .
                At that time the law was, (and I thank God I believe I was greatly instrumental
                    in changing that law), that a man might take children from the mother at any
                    age, and without any fault or offence on her part. There had been an instance in
                    which the husband seized and carried away a suckling infant, as his wife sate
                    nursing it in her own mother’s house. Another, in which the husband being
                    himself in prison for debt, gave his wife’s legitimate child to the woman he
                    cohabited with. A third (in which the parties
                    were of high rank), where the husband deserted his wife; claimed the babe born
                    after his desertion (having already his other children); and left her to learn
                    its death from the newspapers! A fourth, in which the husband living with a
                    mistress, and travelling with her under his wife’s name, the latter appealed for
                    a separation to the Ecclesiastical Court; and the adulterous husband, to revenge
                    himself, claimed from her his three infant girls. In all these cases, and in all
                    other cases, the claim of the father was held to be indisputable.
                    There was no law then to help the mother, as there is no law now to help the
                    wife. The blamelessness of the mother signified nothing in those days, as the
                    blamelessness of the wife signifies nothing in this present day. The father
                    possessed precisely the right the husband still possesses—namely, to do exactly
                    what he pleased. Mr Norton, then, took my little children (aged two, four, and
                    six years); and I traced them to the house of that vile woman, who threatened to
                    give me “to the police” when I went there and claimed them.
                It was not till six weeks after the stealing of my children,—after a
                    long, angry correspondence—and after having attempted to condition that “if my
                    family would retract all that had been said
                    against him, he would retract all he had said against
                        me” —that Mr Norton
                    took higher ground than his real cause of anger,—and appeared before the world
                    in the character of “an injured husband.” He brought an action against Lord
                    Melbourne; who was in no way connected with our quarrel; who had been a most
                    kind friend to us; and with whom, the last time I had ever seen him in my
                    home,—my husband was on the best possible terms, endeavouring to procure from
                    him a loan of money! The infamous opportunity afforded to unscrupulous men, in
                    the English “Action for Damages” (which Lord St Leonard’s has lately termed a
                        “disgrace to the country”—“a stigma on
                        the law of England,”—“an action which shocks one’s
                        sense of what is right”) was suggested as a temptation and a bait. Lord
                    Melbourne declared that, so far as Mr Norton was concerned, he believed the
                    action to be brought entirely as a means of obtaining money. And, as to the
                    persons who were known to have instigated the proceedings, he considered it was
                    a political plot on the part of a small section of the Tories, to ruin him as
                    Prime Minister. And I know that in this opinion your Majesty’s Uncle, King
                    William IV., entirely concurred.
                
                Lord Melbourne never for a moment supposed Mr Norton was really
                    jealous of him; but scornfully wrote to me thus,—of my husband,—“ You ought to know him better than I do, and must do so. But
                        you seem to me to be hardly aware what a GNOME he is.
                        In my opinion he has somehow or other made this whole matter subservient to
                        his pecuniary interest.”
                I do not know what pecuniary advantage consenting to bring the lost trial
                    obtained for Mr Norton: though if he had won it, certainly the “damages” would
                    have been excessive; Lord Melbourne being represented by Mr Norton’s counsel, as
                    a profligate old grandee, who had come into this happy home, to seduce the
                    youthful and beloved mother of Mr Norton’s three infant children. I do not know,
                    I say, what base bargain may have been made about it, as Lord Melbourne
                    conjectured there was; but this I believe, that but for the scheme to oust Lord
                    Melbourne as a Minister, and the feasibility of an action for “damages,” this
                    quarrel with my husband might have been arranged—as other disputes had been,
                    equally bitter.
                At the trial, it was proved that the witnesses for the “injured husband” had
                    received money, and had actually resided till
                    the time of the trial at the country?seat of Lord Grantley, Mr Norton’s elder
                    brother. The jury listened with incredulity and disgust to the evidence; and
                    without requiring to hear a single witness for Lord Melbourne, or leaving the
                    jury?box, they instantly gave their verdict against Mr Norton: a verdict which
                    was received with cheers which the judge could not suppress: so vehement was the
                    expression of public contempt and indignation.
                Mr David Leahy thus described the feeling of the time:—“All the
                        world—whatever their politics may be, or whatever their opinions about the
                        discretion of the behaviour of all or either of the three principal
                        parties—must acknowledge that the three principal witnesses were perjured
                        and suborned. I have spoken with almost every person present, and there
                        exists a perfect unanimity upon this point.”
                After the trial was over, Mr Norton notified to me that my family might support
                    me, or that I might write for my bread; and that my children were by law at his
                    sole disposal.
                And here, again, MONEY was his avowed motive; for he first
                    affirmed that the residence of these infants with me might make him liable for
                    the debts of my household; and then, that
                    “others” on whom he himself depended, would not permit him to send back his
                    children, as it would appear to justify me, and so prove the trial a
                    mockery.
                His own counsel, Sir John Bayley, gave this account in a published letter last
                        year:—“I found Mrs Norton anxious only on one point, and
                        nearly broken?hearted about it; namely, the restoration of her children. She
                        treated her pecuniary affairs as a matter of perfect indifference, and left
                        me to arrange them with Mr Norton as I thought fit. I found her husband, on
                        the contrary, anxious ONLY about the pecuniary
                        arrangement, and so obviously making the love of the mother for her
                        offspring a means of barter and bargain, that I wrote to him I could be ‘no
                        party to any arrangement which made Money the price of Mrs Norton’s fair and
                        honourable access to her children.’ I found the taking away of those
                        children had been the real ground of quarrel, and that not only Mr Norton
                        threw the blame of the subsequent trial on his advisors, and declared that
                        the trial was brought ‘against his judgment,’ but that one of his angriest
                        grounds of complaint against his wife was, that she had said she ‘never
                        would return to him;’... I found, under Mr Norton’s own handwriting, confessions of the grossest personal
                        violence towards his wife.... Mr Norton admitted to me his firm belief of
                        his wife’s innocence of the charge he had brought against her and Lord
                        Melbourne.... I consider there never was a more deeply?injured woman, and
                        that his conduct to her certainly had been marked by ‘the grossest cruelty,
                        injustice, and inconsistency,’ that ever any man displayed.”
                One of my children was afterwards killed, for want of the commonest care a mother
                    would have given to her household. Mr Norton allowed this child to lie ill a
                    week before he sent to tell me he was dying; and, when I arrived, I found the
                    poor little creature already in his coffin.
                When it was not a case of death, I was not allowed to hear at all. Once, when
                    they were ill, I wrote to ask news of them; and my own letter was refolded and
                    sent back to me. That husband, whose petition for pardon had touched me so
                    easily, never pitied me. What I suffered respecting those children,
                    God knows, and He only: what I endured, and yet lived past,—of pain,
                    exasperation, helplessness, and despair, under the evil law which suffered any
                    man, for vengeance or for interest, to take baby children from the mother, I
                    shall not even try to explain. I believe
                        men have no more notion of what that anguish is, than the blind
                    have of colours; and I bless God that at least mine was one of the
                    cases which called attention to the state of the law as it then existed.
                After the action against Lord Melbourne (in which, according to the preposterous
                    English code, I could have no personal defence, nor any means of
                    showing how I had been treated as a wife): I consulted counsel whether
                        I could not now divorce my husband: whether a divorce “by
                    reason of cruelty” might not be pleaded for me; and I laid before my lawyers the
                    many instances of violence, injustice, and ill?usage, of which the trial was but
                    the crowning example. I was then told that no divorce I could
                    obtain would break my marriage; that I could not plead cruelty which I had
                        forgiven; that by returning to Mr. Norton I had
                        “condoned” all I complained of. I was an ENGLISH WIFE, and for me there was no possibility of redress. The
                    answer was always the same. The LAW “Have I no
                    remedy?”—“No remedy in LAW. The LAW can do nothing for you: your case is one of singular, of
                    incredible hardship; but there is no possible way in which the LAW could assist you.” I tried the Edinburgh lawyers. I in? quired if they could not prove my marriage a
                    Scotch one, all Mr Norton’s property being in Scotland, his father a Scotch
                    Baron of Exchequer, and his mother of a Scotch family,—but without success.
                When the woman died, to whom my children had been sent, Mr Norton proposed to me
                    to “forgive” the public trial, and return to him (showing how much
                        he had believed its accusations.) I received from him a most
                    extraordinary note, saying that he considered our differences “ capable of adjustment,” and hoped I would meet him alone, in an empty
                    house, No. 1, Berkeley?street, where he would wait for me. I received this
                    communication with doubt and distrust. The measures adopted towards me, in the
                    effort to get rid of me, had been so strange, that I was afraid to meet my
                    husband “alone, in an empty house.” But I agreed, on his petition,
                    to come to his own house. He then besought me once more “to forget the past” and
                    return home. He laid the blame of all that had happened, on his friends and
                    advisers; said the trial was against his will and judgment, and that he longed
                    “to take me to his heart again.” He sent notes almost daily to my house. Those
                    letters began,“My Carry,” “My dear Carry,” and
                    were signed “Yours affectionately.” Two of them (in allusion to my fear of
                    meeting him) bore the playful signature of “ GREENACRE,”—the name of a man who had been recently hung, for enticing a
                    woman to his house by promising marriage, and then murdering and cutting her
                    into pieces.
                This planned reconciliation did not take place. Mr Norton’s sister informed him
                    that I did not intend “honestly” to return to him. That is that I did not intend
                    to remain in my home. That I would go back for a triumph; for my
                    reputation and my children; but not to stay. Renewed bitter disputes took place,
                    and my children were delivered over to his sister.
                It cost Mr Norton nothing, to revert to the hypocritical pretence he had adopted
                    in the action of damages. He, who had just written those coaxing letters signed
                    Greenacre,—who had just begged his wife to “meet him in an empty house,” and try
                    to arrange so as to outwit those who had been his “advisers,”—leaped nimbly up
                    again to the pedestal from which he had descended, and resumed the attitude of
                    an “injured husband.” Actually, the next step after the GREENACRE letters, was to advertise me in the English newspapers; Mr
                    Norton being, I believe, the only man of his
                    own rank in life who ever resorted to that measure.
                When I saw this wonderful insult gazetted by the husband who had just been wooing
                    my return:—“Whereas on 30th March, 1830, my wife, Caroline
                        Elizabeth Sarah, left me, her family, and home, and hath from thenceforth
                        continued to live separate and apart from me,” &c.,—I again
                    inquired if I had “no remedy?” None. Only my brother’s solicitors were directed
                    to publish a counter advertisement, declaring the whole of what Mr Norton had
                    stated was false.
                Afterwards, Sir John Bayley (Mr Norton’s own counsel) submitted his letters to
                    Lord Wynford (who had been Mr Norton’s guardian). Lord Wynford expressed himself
                    in the strongest and most contemptuous terms with respect to his former ward;
                    and finally—for the express purpose of being shown to Mr Norton—he wrote the
                    following note (the original of which is in my possession)—
                
                    “My Dear Bayley,
                    “I have been thinking of the correspondence you read to me this morning. I am
                        convinced that George Norton can have no defence to the actions, and that his defending them will
                        be attended WITH LOSS OF CHARACTER, as well as great
                        expense. He should agree to the arrangement that you propose, or any other
                        that can be made. I will write to Grantley to tell him that I have advised a
                        settlement on ANY terms.”
                    “Faithfully yours,
                    “WYNFORD.”
                
                Mr Norton had given his pledged word in writing, to his counsel and referee, to
                    abide by any decision he might come to. He broke his word, refused to abide by
                    his written pledge, and actually had the effrontery to complain of his letters
                    “having been shewn”! To which Sir John Bayley bluntly replied, that
                        if he was doing what was right and honest by me, “it was
                    astonishing he should so dread its being known.”
                At length, after I had remained for two years without a farthing of support from
                    my husband; dependent on my family; one of my creditors brought an action
                    against Mr Norton; who once more undertook—(being the aggressor)—to pretend to
                    be the aggrieved. Once more I, also, struggled to prove, under the blessed
                    English law, what were the real facts of the case. My husband himself has published, the reason of my
                    non?success. Here are Mr Norton’s printed words:—“Lord Abinger,
                        who tried the cause, upon a suggestion of my counsel” (Sir Fitzroy
                    Kelly), “that Sir John Bayley had been my advocate and referee,
                            REFUSED TO HEAR HIS EVIDENCE.”
                Lord Abinger refused the evidence which Lord Wynford had warned Lord Grantley
                    would be fatal: the evidence of which Lord Wynford had said, that
                        if it should ever come out, it would be attended “with
                        loss of character” for Mr Norton. It was suppressed: and because it
                    was suppressed the case was decided for Mr Norton instead of
                        against him, as Lord Wynford had warned him must happen.
                After this, Mr Norton proposed once more to have “referees.” He named Sir F.
                    Thesiger, whose opinion I give in his own words:—“The
                        accommodation proposed by Norton is one in which you are to give way upon
                        every subject, and he is not to recede upon one; and it seems to me to be
                        ridiculous to talk of conciliation upon such a footing. ........ It is
                        impossible not to be struck with the vacillating and vexatious course which
                        Norton has pursued; exciting hopes only to disappoint them, and making
                        promises apparently for the opportunity of breaking them.”
                
                Why should there be no tribunal of control over these “vacillating” husbands, who
                    refuse to abide by written pledges, and make promises “for the opportunity of
                    breaking them”? Why is the absurd fiction of “non?existence”, to be kept up
                        in law, when in fact, two alienated parties exist,
                    with adverse interests, struggling and antagonistic? 
                One of the episodes of my “non?existence” in law, at this time, consisted in my
                    having to endure a libel of immoderate length and bitterness, in the “British
                    and Foreign Quarterly Review.” I had made little struggle about other matters. I
                    had yielded to Lord Melbourne’s earnest request that, while he was minister, I
                    would not publish my own account of the case between him and my husband. But
                    resolutely, passionately, and till the final hour of success, I struggled
                    against the law which enabled another woman to take my children. In
                    the course of that struggle, I wrote two pamphlets: one, “On the Separation of
                    Mother and Child;” the other, “A Plain Letter to the Chancellor, by Pierce
                    Stevenson, Esq.” The review in question attributed to me a paper I did
                        not write, and never saw; “On the Grievances of Woman;” and
                    boldly setting my name, in the index, as the
                    author,—proceeded, in language strange rabid and virulent, to abuse the writer;
                    calling her a “SHE?DEVIL” and a “SHE?BEAST.” No less than one hundred and forty?two pages were
                    devoted to the nominal task of opposing the Infant Custody Bill, and in reality
                    to abusing me. Not being the author of the paper criticised, I
                    requested my solicitor to prosecute the Review as a libel. He informed me that
                    being a married woman, I could not prosecute of myself; that my husband must
                    prosecute: my husband—who had assailed me with every libel in his power! There
                    could be no prosecution: and I was left to study the grotesque anomaly in law of
                    having my defense made necessary,—and made
                    impossible,—by the same person.
                “Oh! but,”—say those who have not studied and suffered under the law, as I
                    have,—“in return for all this, the husband is responsible for his wife’s debts:
                    that we all know!” Do you? I will shew that not only he is not responsible for
                    his wife’s debts to others—but he is not responsible for his own covenanted
                    debts to her. He is, as I have said, legally
                    responsible for nothing, but that she shall not come upon the parish.
                In 1848, my husband required ready money to
                    improve the estate left him by the woman to whom my children were at first
                    taken.
                In order to raise this money on the trust?funds of our marriage settlements, my
                    signature was necessary. To obtain my signature, Mr. Norton drew up a contract.
                    He dictated the terms of the contract himself; vehemently urged its completion;
                    and reproached my solicitor for the delay, distrust, and reluctance, which I
                    shewed before I signed it. I did eventually sign it; and so did Mr.
                    Norton; and so, also, as I have already stated, did the Hon. Edmund Phipps
                    (married to the widow of the Hon. Charles Norton, my husband’s younger brother).
                    The effect of my signature was, that Mr. Norton immediately raised the loan from
                    our trust?fund, to employ on his estate. The effect of his
                    signature, and the signatures of the Marquis of Normanby’s brother, and the
                    solicitor who drew it up, was absolutely nil.
                In 1851, my mother died. She left me (through my brother, to guard it from my
                    husband) a small annuity, as an addition to my income. Mr. Norton first
                    endeavoured to claim her legacy, and then balanced the first payment under her
                    will, by arbitrarily stopping my allowance. I insisted that the allowance was
                        secured, by his own signature, and those
                    other signatures, to a formal deed. He defied me to prove it,—“as, by law, man
                    and wife were one, and could not contract with each other; and the deed was
                    therefore good for nothing.”
                I confess I thought the fear of exposure would prevent his disputing the
                    contract; I thought,—this time at least, the memorable words of Lord
                        Wynford,—“George Norton can have no defence to the actions,
                        and his defending them will be attended with loss of character,” must
                    operate as a check upon so unfair, so monstrous an act, as availing himself of
                    the legal fiction of my “non?existence,” to escape from a written bond, which
                    any one not his wife might have prosecuted upon.
                I was mistaken. Not only Mr Norton held by the quibble that man and wife could
                    not contract with each other; not only he did this,—but he had the base and
                    cruel hypocrisy to once more drag forward Lord Melbourne’s name, in order to
                    make that seem my shame and my disgrace, which was in
                    fact his shame and his disgrace; and to pretend wrong,
                    where he knew he had been the wronger. Once more, for the sake of money,—as in
                    the action for “damages,”—he endeavoured to cover me with opprobrium! Creeping
                    back to his old place; scrambling up on the moss? covered and forsaken pedestal of “the injured husband”; he met the mother of
                    his grown?up sons, with the accusations he had admitted to be a falsehood in
                    their childhood: bruising those boyish hearts with forgotten slanders, first
                    raised, and first retracted, when the eldest was but six years
                    old!
                He met me in person in the law court; he instructed his lawyer, in my very
                    presence, what questions to ask me that could insult me most: and when that
                    gentleman afterwards apologised for the tone of those questions, he asserted
                    that Mr Norton’s instructions went beyond what he had even ventured to ask!
                He affected (O gross affectation!) to be hurt, as “an injured husband,” at my
                    accepting any assistance in money from Lord Melbourne’s sister or family after
                    his decease; and affirmed that he had made conditions with me about it. When I
                    contradicted this on oath,—disproved it, and commented on the shameful pretence
                    by which, in a dispute about my mother’s will, he revived discussions about Lord
                    Melbourne,—seeing that he himself retained one thousand a?year from Lord
                    Melbourne’s patronage,—(steadily preserving THAT memory
                    of past favors, even through all the reviling of his dead patron),— Mr Norton printed the wonderful falsehood, that Lord
                    Melbourne had given him the place he held, “before he knew Mrs Norton!” The
                    ridicule of this—(even if true)—might have struck any one; this new way of
                    dividing the ledger; this abhorrence of a man “because of the seduction of my
                    wife”—but satisfaction in the place obtained from him, because it was
                        “before the seduction of my wife.” But I proved it
                        not to be true, by Lord Melbourne’s own letters. It was a sheer
                    invention; and given with the most careful detail. Yet Mr Norton,—convicted of
                    its being utterly false,—contented himself with saying, “the matter had happened
                    so long ago,” he made an “unintentional mistake.” How many more of his slanders
                    against the dead and the living are “unintentional mistakes”?
                I will not pause over that question. I will not pause over the still debateable
                    point, whether that signed paper, even if not a contract with me,
                    may not be held good as a contract with my creditors;—a written and
                    stamped agreement with them, made by a magistrate and a barrister; the sole
                    condition annexed being, that while it is paid they shall not apply to him. Nor
                    will I enlarge further on the abuse and insult which was showered on me that day
                    in court, only for asserting a just claim.
                        INSULT is not DEGRADATION:
                    Queens have been insulted, as I was: and the famous summons in Henry VIII.’s
                    time—“Katherine! come into court,”—was about as just as that which called
                        me there! It is enough to know, that in this dispute between
                    the existent husband and the non?existent wife, the existent husband had every
                    advantage. The dead friend and patron was scurrilously abused, by the man who
                    still holds place under his appointment. The living but “non?existent” wife, was
                    publicly insulted, by the husband who had written her the Greenacre letters, and
                    entreated her return home on the plea that she might “forgive” the trial, since
                    he disbelieved in its accusations! The “existent” husband subpœnaed my bankers;
                    compelled them to produce their books, and sent his attorney to make extracts at
                    their bank, of all sums entered in my private account. He also subpœnaed my
                    publishers; to compel them to declare what were the copyrights they held of me,
                    and what sums they had paid me: for, (amazing to say,) the copyrights of my
                    works are his, by law: my very soul and brains are not my own! And,
                    when all was done, this great dictum was
                    impressed upon my memory; that the contract was nil, because the
                    fiction of the law is, that “man and wife are
                    one,”—and not two contracting parties; and Mr Norton, therefore, was not bound
                    “in law,” only “in honour.”
                I am not now discussing this, with any reference to him individually.
                    Gone,—past—buried in unutterable scorn,—are the days in which I appealed, either
                        to him, or from him. I complain,—not of the
                    existent husband, but of the existent law: and of that “nation of gallant
                    gentlemen,” who scarcely care, and scarcely know, what is the
                    existing law on such subjects.
                After the creditor’s case was over, Mr Norton enquired, (the old
                    enquiry!)—whether I would “submit to referees” the point, whether he ought “in
                    honour” to abide by his signature; and whether I would name a referee on my
                    part. I answered in the affirmative: and I named as my referee, one who may
                    fairly claim to inspire as much confidence, respect, and universal esteem, from
                    men of all ranks, ages, or parties, as I think it ever was the lot of any person
                    to enjoy:—I named the Marquis of Lansdowne. Mr Norton proposed his own brother,
                    Lord Grantley; which nomination was declined, as an impossible
                        choice—impossible, recollecting the circumstances of the trial,—the residence of the
                    witnesses,—and the nearness of connection. No other choice was proposed. Mr
                    Norton either felt, (as he may truly feel), that no unprejudiced gentleman in
                    England, would support him in his legal quibble:—or he had never intended to
                    propose a choice which could be accepted,—which is more than probable.
                Now I will pray your Majesty’s attention to the effect of this non?existence in
                    law, on the several parties involved in the discussion of this contract.
                And first I will take Mr Norton’s position.
                From the date of my mother’s death, he has withheld entirely, and with perfect
                    impunity, my income as his wife. I do not receive, and have not received for the
                    past three years, a single farthing from him. He retains, and always has
                    retained, property that was left in my home?gifts made to me by my own family on
                    my marriage, and to my mother by your Majesty’s aunt, H.R.H. the Duchess of
                    York;—articles bought from my literary earnings,—books which belonged to Lord
                    Melbourne; and, in particular, a manuscript of
                    which Lord Melbourne himself was the author, (when a very young man,) which Mr
                    Norton resolutely refused to give up.
                He receives from my trustees the interest of the portion bequeathed me by my
                    father, who died in the public service, holding an official appointment at the
                    Cape of Good Hope, leaving a family of very young orphans, slenderly provided
                    for. If my father lived, it is to be presumed there is no man he would see with
                    greater abhorrence than Mr Norton (considering what the fate of his daughter has
                    been), yet such portion as he was able to leave me, goes from the “non?existent”
                    wife, to the existent husband, in the general trust?fund of our marriage.
                I have also (as Mr Norton impressed on me, by subpœnaing my publishers) the power
                    of earning, by literature,—which fund (though it be the grant of Heaven, and not
                    the legacy of earth) is no more legally mine than my family property.
                Now again, I say, is or is not this a ridiculous law (if laws be made to conduct
                    to justice)? I cannot divorce my husband, either for adultery, desertion, or
                    cruelty; I must remain married to his name;
                        he has, in right of that fact (of my link to his name), a right to everything I have in
                    the world—and I have no more claim upon him, than any one of your
                    Majesty’s ladies in waiting, who are utter strangers to him! I never see him:—I
                    hear of him only by attacks on my reputation:—and I do not receive a farthing of
                    support from him. His reply, by attorney (dated 10th of April, this session), to
                    any such demand—is to bid the creditor “examine the will of my mother in
                    Doctors’ Commons” (thereby throwing off the mask of pretence he wore, and
                    standing openly on his legal irresponsibility): and when we first separated, he
                    offered me, as sole provision, a small pension paid by Government to each of my
                    father’s children; reckoning that pension as his!
                That is the position of the husband.
                The next startling point, is the position of the trades?people under this
                    “non?existent” rule; and if the opinion of persons so humble were likely to
                    reach your Majesty, they could tell you what they think of the law
                    which leaves them utterly without any remedy.
                In the creditor’s action tried on Mr Norton’s
                    contract, the plaintiff was Mr Thrupp, one of the coachmakers “by appointment”
                    to your Majesty. Mr Thrupp lost his cause as against Mr Norton; and perhaps the
                    uninitiated imagine it was merely a question which of us should pay him; or pay
                    any other creditor. Those who think so, are mistaken. In consequence of this
                    rule of my “non?existence,” Mr Thrupp, and the group of creditors, can claim
                    payment from no one. They cannot sue the “non?existent” married
                    woman; the husband cannot contract with the “non?existent” married
                    woman; and the “non?existent” married woman cannot be compelled to pay, if she
                    refuses to discharge the debt. “Oh! but you will not refuse; you
                    will pay, surely,” say the bystanders. How? My husband owes me £1,500, or three
                    years’ income. I have no means of raising this large sum; no one would lend
                    money to a married woman; she can give no security. Besides, I am in debt to my
                    bankers: obstinately disbelieving in the possibility of the law’s injustice
                    (before it was proved to me), I borrowed from them, when Mr Norton
                    stopped my allowance: and that loan, with interest, is still unpaid. I am in
                    debt to my printers; for work arising out of this very injustice. I have persons
                    who receive regular instalments every year, on
                    past dues; I have other employment for my money, than making up Mr Norton’s
                    defalcations.
                “Oh! but you should not have other employment: you should write and earn money,
                    and pay these people; and then economize, and retrench, so as to give up the
                    £500 a year to Mr Norton.”
                Why?
                Why, because I am married to a name,—am I to strive and labour, to enable the
                    owner of that name to commit a direct fraud? Why am I to pay Mr
                    Norton’s debts, to renounce all claim on him, and admit that my legal
                    “non?existence” made our signing that contract a mere farce? simply because he
                    has grossly and cruelly insulted and slandered me, in an open court of justice,
                    on grounds he knew were false; and with a defence absolutely
                    fictitious?
                I would not if I could! If all England were to agree to raise a
                    shilling subscription,—or if some one were to do what Mr Kennedy of the Woods
                    and Forests says has been done for him,—namely, come forward and say, “I think
                    this business so unjust, that I will settle for life the income you
                    lose; now pay your people,”—I would not admit that the matter should end so! I do not consider this as MY cause: though it is a cause of which (unfortunately for me) I am
                    an illustration. It is the cause of all the women, and of a large
                    proportion of the tradespeople, in England. If I were personally set at ease
                    about it to?morrow, that would not alter the law. The same
                    injustice might happen next day to some woman who could not struggle, or earn,
                    or write; for whom no one would come forward; and to some petty tradesman,—not
                    like Mr Thrupp, coachmaker to your Majesty, in a large way of business,—but
                    grievously injured by the loss of even a small sum. What is needed, is not the
                    arranging of one particular case, but a Tribunal of Control, a Tribunal for
                    Marriage and Divorce; to decide ALL such cases;—and to
                    prevent the possibility of the shame to England and to English law, entailed by
                    throwing the sum secured by a magistrate’s signature, the signatures of two
                    peers’ brothers, and a lawyer,—among a tradesman’s list of “bad debts.”
                The tradesman is cheated;—not by me, for I am cheated in my turn; nor (except
                    indirectly) by Mr Norton, for it is his wife whom he defrauds. It
                    is the LAW that cheats the tradesman. The law,—that
                    should do him justice! He loses justice; he loses the sum due as the actual debt; and he loses the expenses of applying
                    for that debt unsuccessfully. Is that, or is it not, a ridiculous confusion of
                    laws, to exist in any kingdom?
                I will take, now, your Majesty’s position; for,—be it said with all respect and
                    loyalty,—this was no common “private quarrel,” of which scarce an echo can reach
                    the throne: but a matter which it would be wanting in reverence to believe,
                        can have been indifferent to you. The first Prime Minister of
                    your Majesty’s reign is scurrilously attacked and slandered in the English
                    newspapers, by an English magistrate. In a long letter published by that
                    magistrate (expressly, as he informs his readers, in his “public capacity”), he
                    accuses the dead minister, who cannot defend himself, not only of the seduction
                    of his wife, but of bribery, malversation, corruption, and baseness of every
                    kind.
                The magistrate who makes these accusations, has been stigmatised by each
                    successive person, called (even by himself) to interfere in our quarrel, as
                    entirely regardless of TRUTH. The clergyman of
                    Westminster Chapel, immediately after our
                    parting, wrote to me, of Mr Norton’s “amazing assertions,” and his attempt to
                    obtain a retraction of their falsehood. Lord Melbourne gave his word of honour
                    that the accusation on which the action for damages was based, was false; and he
                    believed it was brought for money. My brother (through his solicitor) declared
                    every word of my husband’s advertisement against me in the papers in 1839 to be
                    false. Lord Wynford in 1838 declared the discrepancy to be so great between Mr
                    Norton’s real case, and his pretence of being an offended husband, that the
                    public knowledge of it must be attended “with loss of character.” Mr Norton’s
                    own counsel, Sir John Bayley, published, in 1853, this declaration; “nearly
                    every statement he made me, turned out to be untrue.” Sir F.
                    Thesiger said his promises seemed made “apparently for the opportunity of
                    breaking them.” ALL accused him of untruth; at all times;
                    down to that unpardonable (and unpardoned) day of August, 1853, when he met me
                    in a law court with a fictitious plea of slander, and was contradicted on
                        oath by the witnesses: to that 24th August, when his letter of
                    explanation was disproved by me, and his false account of his appointment by
                    Lord Melbourne publicly exposed: to that 31st
                    of August, when the solicitor who drew up the contract declared of his statement
                    with reference to that matter—“the entire paragraph is untrue;” to that
                    memorable 13th of September, 1853, when Sir John Bayley finally contradicted,
                    point by point, every invention and slanderous assertion he had put forward.
                    That such a man,—proved to be so recklessly false,—should have any
                    power at all over the reputation of the dead or the living, arises out of the
                    law which permits an “action for damages,” as a sort of gambling speculation,
                    without defence or contradiction being possible to the wife; and the law which
                    allows the breach of contract on a plea of “non?existence” of the wife; for it
                    is on these two links of opportunity that Mr Norton has connected the long chain
                    of falsehoods against Lord Melbourne and myself.
                I think it is in the Duc de St. Simon’s Memoirs, that a passage occurs, which her
                    Majesty, the Queen of Holland, first pointed out to me; where, speaking of the
                    death of one dear to the throne, the author says that the king lamented,—“mais un peu a la Royale,”—implying (as many
                    historical and even Scriptural phrases imply), that the friends of kings and
                    princes are sooner forgotten, and less grieved for, than friends of equal degree. Certainly there can be no entire
                    friendship, where there is no real equality; but there may be memory of service
                    and an earnest regard; and I will not believe (for he would not
                    have believed it) that the abuse of Lord Melbourne was indifferent to your
                    Majesty. Leaning on the hand of that loyal and true friend and servant, your
                    Majesty ascended the throne of your ancestors; and the Queen of three kingdoms
                    said to her minister, “Help me,”—as she placed her foot on the steps. Soon after
                    your Majesty’s accession, he read to you (in that magnificent and melodious
                    voice which many still remember), those verses from the Third Book of Kings,
                    where the youthful Solomon, being asked by God in a dream, what gift he will
                    desire at the beginning of his inexperienced reign; asks, not “long life, nor riches, nor the lives of his enemies,”—but “ an understanding heart; to judge the people, and discern
                        between good and evil.” Lord Melbourne held then, a
                    position which has scarcely a parallel in English history;—the extreme youth and
                    sex of his Sovereign, mingling with his duties as counsellor something of the
                    character of a guardian. That he fulfilled those anxious duties, while he lived,
                    with devoted zeal, and was worthy to fulfil
                    them, no one has ever doubted.
                When, after his death, rumours and aspersions respecting the interference of
                    Prince Albert with public affairs, found their way from conversational gossip
                    into print, and were made a subject of discussion by various organs of the
                    press, Lord Aberdeen in the House of Lords, and Lord John Russell in the
                    Commons, read aloud, to eager and attentive members, a brief frank note, written
                    by Lord Melbourne to your Majesty, expressive of his favorable opinion of the
                    discretion, ability, and excellence of the Prince Consort. And this minister was
                    so trusted for wisdom and for honesty, was held to be such an authority in
                    matters of the deepest moment to England’s welfare, that those few lines were
                    received with a burst of cordial cheering, such as many a long and eloquent
                    oration has failed to produce.
                He will read, counsel, instruct, and serve no more. Nor is it in human nature
                    that his memory among those who knew him should not fade. But I will not believe
                    that he has lamented so much “a la
                    Royale,”—that he held so brief a lease in his Sovereign’s regard,—that
                        even while his letter was quoted, he
                    himself was forgotten!
                For his sake,—if not for the great sake of justice, which all rulers
                    must reverence,—I feel a deep conviction it was far otherwise with your Majesty;
                    and that when you found one of the magistrates of your City of London (a
                    magistrate by Lord Melbourne’s own appointment) suddenly filling the principal
                    journals of that city with base, false, and rancorous abuse of your Majesty’s
                    dead friend and servant, it was painful—not indifferent—to the
                    Royal mind.
                What then? Why this: that the throne was then mocked—as justice was
                    mocked,—as the decency of social order was mocked,—by this impunity of atrocious
                    libel on a minister whose character stood so admittedly high, that even one of
                    his posthumous notes was deemed of sufficient authority to define the position,
                    and to declare the character, of the Consort of the Sovereign! And this impunity
                    of abuse,—by this minister’s own nominee,—not even the Queen of England could
                    prevent or punish, because there exists in her realm no legal tribunal which
                    could have taken cognisance of this quarrel from the first,—and
                    have ended its disputes, and silenced its ever?recurring scandal, seventeen years ago, by a timely decision between the
                    irresponsible husband and the “non?existent” wife.
                As to my own position,—if others were as weary of reading, as I am of writing,
                    the subject must indeed be tedious: but it is necessary to my summing up. I am,
                    as regards my husband, in a worse position than if I had been divorced. In that
                    case, Englishmen are so generous, that some chivalrous?hearted man might perhaps
                    have married and trusted me, in spite of the unjust cloud on my name. I am
                        not divorced, and I cannot divorce my husband; yet I can
                    establish no legal claim upon him, nor upon any living human being! My
                    reputation, my property, my happiness, are irrevocably in the power of this
                    slanderer on false grounds; this rapacious defender of his right to evade
                    written bonds. I cannot release myself. I exist and I suffer; but the law denies
                    my existence.
                I have two sons. One already launched in life, employed in your Majesty’s service
                    among junior diplomates: and one who is not yet in any profession.
                
                He is not in any profession, because at the very moment when I had promised and
                    arranged so to dispose of him, Mr Norton made it impossible, by
                    breaking the contract which secured my allowance; and took away my means of
                    doing so.
                Mr Norton stands on the legal ground, that not only my mother’s will (which he
                    desires my tradesmen to “inspect at Doctors’ Commons”), and other resources,
                    would release him from the necessity of supporting me,—but that I am so able
                    with my pen, I might earn £500 a year if I worked hard enough!
                    Would the Duke of Bedford and Lord Westminster (two, I believe, of your
                    Majesty’s wealthiest subjects) accept from Mr Norton, instead of money due to
                    them, the assurance that he considered them quite sufficiently well off without
                    it? And if it were true that my literary earnings could be permanent and
                    constant, on what conceivable principle of justice am I to toil, in order to
                    hand over my allowance as Mr Norton’s wife, to be spent on his mistress or
                    divided amongst several mistresses,—instead of preventing my younger son from
                    wasting his talents and energies without a career; or affording further
                    assistance to the eldest—the wisest, kindest, and best son who ever struggled to do difficult duty between the
                    parents of a divided home?
                I owe to the law which enables Mr Norton to evade his contract, two lost years in
                    my younger son’s life,—(at the very moment of youth when employment is of most
                    paramount importance); together with the breach of all my written engagements in
                    his behalf. Mischievous and absurd, not only with reference to me,
                    but to those dearest to me, is this quibble of “non?existence” by which all my
                    natural rights revert to the husband,—on whom I have no claim,—and who yet draws
                    portions of his income from the dead man he publicly libels as my lover, and the
                    dead father, whose daughter he seeks publicly to brand as a wanton!
                The natural position of woman is inferiority to man. Amen! That is a thing of
                    God’s appointing, not of man’s devising. I believe it sincerely, as a part of my
                    religion: and I accept it as a matter proved to my reason. I never pretended to
                    the wild and ridiculous doctrine of equality. I will even hold that (as one
                    coming under the general rule that the wife must be inferior to the husband),
                        I occupy that position. Uxor fulget
                        radiis Mariti; I am Mr Norton’s inferior; I am the clouded moon of
                    that sun. Put me then—(my ambition extends no
                    further)—in the same position as all his other inferiors! In that of his
                    housekeeper, whom he could not libel with impunity, and without possible
                    defence; of an apprentice whom he could not maltreat lawlessly, even if the boy
                    “condoned” original ill?usage; of a scullion, whose wages he could not refuse on
                    the plea that she is legally “non?existent”; of the day?labourer, with whom he
                    would not argue that his signature to a contract is “worthless.” Put me under
                        some law of protection; and do not leave me to the mercy of one
                    who has never shewn me mercy. For want of such a law of protection, all other
                    protection has been vain! I have had the upholding (and I set it first, because
                    it has been of greater comfort and value to me than any other), of as generous
                    and affectionate a family as ever combined to shield one of its members from
                    undeserved disgrace. Sisters, of spotless reputation, who stood by me “through
                    evil report and good report,” tenderly and steadily for years. Brothers and
                    brothers?in?law, among the best gentlemen of England. Relations and intimate
                    friendships among the noblest and purest of its women.
                I have sons whom I love and am proud of, and
                    who (thank God!), love and are proud of me, in spite of past
                    misery. I had the verdict of twelve English gentlemen, sworn to a verdict of
                        truth; and the solemn word,—living and dying,—of the friend who
                    was accused with me of sin. I was aided in my first battle against fortune, by
                    persons of great rank and influence. By none more kindly than by your Majesty’s
                    uncle, the King of the Belgians: he who learned, perhaps, to feel more, having
                    suffered more, than others; and who remembered me in my early girlhood, and in
                    my mother’s home: he who once held in England the place Prince Albert now fills:
                    who was husband and father to the heirs of the English crown; and who, in the
                    prime and pride of his own youth, saw the sun set one December night on that
                    triumphantly happy position, and saw it rise—a childless widower!
                I have had sympathy and assistance from obscurer friends; not noble in name,
                    though noble in nature: and I have had with me, public opinion, and the good
                    wishes of good hearts. To what end? Vain, though not valueless, has been this
                    accumulation of kindness, from friends, relatives and strangers, for want of
                    such laws of protection! They could pity,—but they could not help. They could prevent nothing
                    that has been inflicted on me: redress nothing: nor blot anything out.
                In the course of my life, I have seen but one more resolute attempt at annulling
                    the effect of the law on a woman’s destiny; and I conceive even that to have
                    failed. It was tried under the most favourable circumstances. Not, as in my
                    case, in the reign of a Queen,—where, though no Salique law rules the
                    succession, the general spirit of the laws and of opinion is against the
                    importance of women: a Queen married to a foreign prince, of less rank than the
                    former Queen’s consorts in England,—prudently and unremittingly occupied, ever
                    since he reached our shores, in conciliating the Tory party; among whom (and
                    especially among those employed at Court), stood Lord Melbourne’s bitterest
                    foes. Not under these disadvantages, but in the strong reign of a King:—with our
                    modern Marlborough,—our one General,—the late Duke of Wellington,—for the lady’s
                    unflinching friend,—the experiment of support was tried, and failed. A pension
                    of £380 a year on the Irish Civil List was
                    granted to the maligned wife. She was afterwards made extra Lady in Waiting to
                    Queen Adelaide: and all that great friends, great influence, and court favour
                    could do for her, was done; the husband vainly attacking the Duke of Wellington,
                    in a published pamphlet, for his interference in his domestic affairs; and
                    vainly deprecating what was done, as done in defiance of himself, the lord and
                    ruler of that broken home.
                But set that woman’s destiny to rights, the Court could not: nor
                    break her marriage: nor overrule what was determined by her husband as to her
                    more intimate destiny,—the dear tie of children, or attacks on her reputation.
                    The throne could compensate, but not redress: could
                    compensate in this one instance, but could not prevent such instances from
                    recurring: could give that woman her place among court pageants, but could not
                    prevent her heart aching beneath her diamonds: nor create, by any number of
                    royal smiles, a recurring dawn for that light, which, when a woman’s
                    home?destiny is wrecked, goes out into utter darkness.
                It is a glorious thing that the Law should be stronger than the Throne. It is one
                    of dear boastful England’s proudest blind boasts. But it is not a glorious thing that, being
                    stronger than the throne, it should be weaker than the subject: and that that
                    which even a king can only do within a certain limit,—(oppress or uphold),—may
                    be done with boundless irresponsible power, in the one single relation of
                    husband and wife.
                I have seen,—per contrâ,—one
                    instance of an English gentleman crushed, denounced, and socially disgraced, as
                    well as legally condemned. It was for an accusation of unfair play at cards. A
                    morbid desire to win,—without even the motive of the needy
                    sharper?poverty,—upset the calculations of his playmates, and rendered their
                    game of skill a game of chance. Oh! what a turmoil this discovery created!
                    Nothing else was thought of: the still pond of polite society, with its quiet
                    surface of duck?weed and ornamental lilies, turned suddenly into a foaming
                    whirlpool: the lilies were tossed like sea?weed in a storm. The idea of WHIST?PLAYING being disturbed; the pleasures of
                    club?loungers infringed upon by such dreadful uncertainties; the good
                    old?fashioned games that wiled away their
                    unoccupied evenings, turned into traps for their purses—the sacred cards scored
                    with private methods of identification—this indeed was an outrage
                    on social life, law, and order! This could not,—would not,—must not
                    be borne for one day after it became known! Accordingly, the most vigorous
                    measures were taken—law proceedings were instituted: everybody was shocked
                    beyond measure: examinations were gone through: old companions were summoned to
                    give evidence against him, and gave it; some with tears in their eyes and some
                    without. The thunder of public reprobation rolled round his head; the lightning
                    of a legal condemnation reached and struck him; and, when the storm was
                    over,—when the calm of polite life was restored,—when the lilies and the slack
                    duck?weed settled down once more on the surface of their much?disturbed pond,
                    its waters had closed for ever over the wrecked destiny of that popular and
                    accomplished man!
                Since then, I have seen every species of cheating, unfairness, tyranny, and
                    oppression, as regards women, borne with the most comfortable indifference. The lilies and the duckweed lie
                    smiling and sleeping; and they think it vulgar, and very troublesome, if wrongs
                    that do not wrong their pleasures, and struggles to amend laws that are already
                    quite perfect enough to protect those pleasures,—are forced on their unwilling
                    notice! Let whist?playing, not women, be protected: the one signifies, the other
                    don’t. The club?loungers smile in scorn. “What is all this disturbance about?
                    Woman’s rights and woman’s wrongs?—pooh, pooh; nonsense; Bloomerism;
                    Americanism! we can’t have that sort of thing in England. Women must submit;
                    those who don’t, are bad women—depend upon it: all bad women. There are no bad
                    men. Who ever heard of a bad man? or, at least, of his conduct being condemned
                    by the world at large, in matters like these?” “But this really is
                    a monstrous case.” “Well, yes, it’s all very wrong—very shabby—very
                    unprincipled—certainly; but we can’t meddle; all the laws
                    respecting women are in a hopeless state of confusion; and it is much better one
                    or two women should suffer unjustly, than that the authority of husbands should
                    be doubted. As to a husband’s sin, and all that, it can’t signify
                    so much as the woman’s sin; because you know,
                    the woman’s sin may give her husband a spurious child to inherit his
                    property.”
                Now where is the logic of this reasoning? Why is it better one or two (or one or
                    two hundred) women should suffer? It is not better that one or two apprentices
                    should be starved or maltreated, rather than interfere with the authority of
                    their masters; nor one or two factory children, rather than interfere with
                    manufacturers: women are not appealing for an exceptional law in their
                        favour; on the contrary, they are appealing not to be made an
                    exception from the general protection of the laws. As to the comparative
                    harmlessness of the husband’s sin, what does that mean? It means merely that
                        in his own home his sin has no result; but in the other home,
                    where he sins? How do you guarantee that his sin shall harm no one? Why is he to
                    have the liberty to wrong others,—by a wrong that in his own case would be so
                    intolerable and unpardonable,—when the same reasoning may be applied to the
                    wrong he does, as to the wrong he suffers? May not he, also, be the
                    father of a spurious child?—one born in a friend’s home?—one born, perhaps of
                    some poor victim tempted to cast it into that cold grey river, which runs past the Senate?house where
                    these hard laws are so falsely argued, and past the Temple where they are so
                    carelessly studied!
                This is the same England where such an outcry was raised against General Haynau,
                    that he was afterwards assaulted in the public streets! Austrians might well
                    retort upon Englishmen the faultfinding in which they then indulged. There is
                    not one of that aristocracy of gentlemen, who would not smile in scorn at the
                    Englishman’s affectation of a better law for women in his own country. Is there
                    no pain and degradation except physical pain and degradation? Is
                    there no indecency but in ideas of nudity?—no barbarity but in stripes and
                    blows? Is there no brutality in the cross?examination in divorce cases, from
                    which even the female servants shrink, angry and wounded, at being so
                    questioned? Is there no indecency in the trials before the House of Lords, which
                    Lord Beaumont termed “disgusting and demoralizing?” Is there no pain in the
                    hunting down for feverish years, with torment and libel, a woman who can escape
                    from neither?
                And yet these English hearts are noble. From among these “club?loungers” we have
                    sent the bravest men that ever perished
                    patiently, or with glorious courage, on a disastrous battle?field. Among them
                    there is not one who would not guard the woman of his own family from insult
                    with his life; with as much chivalry as those knights of romance who in less
                    civilized days fought a hand?to?hand battle, for the fame or the rights of the
                    weaker sex. Only they cannot be brought to believe that they can
                    interfere in a revision of the law, or to consider the necessity of such
                    revision. They love and revere particular names among women. Their hearts glow
                    at the devotion of the poor girl Grace Darling, whose impulsive heroism saved
                    wrecked sailor’s lives: at the gentle prison?visitings of Mrs Fry: at the
                    Crimean pilgrimage of mercy and sick tendance, undertaken by Miss Nightingale
                    and her companions. They were all for erecting a “Monument to Grace Darling;”
                    the newspapers at the time were filled with such schemes.
                But when Miss Nightingale (please God!) shall return safe amongst us: when she
                    shall cease from gazing in the great multitude of wistful dying eyes, and come
                    back to the usual sights of life: when the moans of the wounded shall be a
                    sorrowful memory, not a painful reality in her
                    ears: when, instead, she shall hear, as she lands on her native soil, the
                    shouted welcomes of applauding and reverential hearts,—will it ever occur to the
                    men of England that the best “testimonial” to the worth of such women, would be
                    to give the sex they belong to, a status, which, in our country alone, is denied
                    them? and laws of protection, which France, Germany, Prussia,—aye, even Austria
                    and Russia,—find it easier to enact than ourselves.
                It will go hard with the loyalty of such of your Majesty’s female subjects as
                    suffer like me, but they will wish themselves subjects in any other country;
                    where, at least, if they are to suffer, they must offend against
                    the law, and not, as in England, suffer without offending. The Haynaus of
                    England are they who will not help to change such laws! Had I been a man, I
                    would have worked out their revision and reform: but I am only a woman—and, in
                    the land which my Queen governs, women count for nothing in important matters. I
                    am only a woman—and by the law taught in those Inns of Court where the Prince
                    Consort is a Bencher, my existence is “absorbed in that of my husband;” and my
                    intelligence is only so far available, that it enables him to subpœna my pub? lishers into Court, to prove that I can earn
                    my bread without compelling him to support me.
                Even now, friends say to me:—“Why write? why struggle? it is the law! You will do
                    no good.” But if every one slacked courage with that doubt, nothing would ever
                    be achieved in this world. This much I will do,—woman though I be. I will put on
                    record,—in French, German, English, and Italian,—what the law for women was in
                    England, in the year of civilization and Christianity 1855, and the 16th year of
                    the reign of a female sovereign! This, I will do; and others who
                    come after me may do more. My son, or my grandson, may be Lord Chancellor of
                    England, and may do with this abuse of justice, what Romilly and Erskine (the
                    latter of my mother’s race) did with abuses of justice in their day; and what
                    Brougham and Lyndhurst have done with abuses of justice in ours. The feudal
                    barbarity of the laws between “Baron and Feme” may vanish from amongst us, as
                    the feudal barbarity of duelling has vanished; which is already a checked abuse,
                    and a forgotten fashion.
                My son, I say, or my grandson, may achieve this reform; and my memory may be with
                    them while they work, helpless as I am now! Is this a dream to smile at? This is not a day to smile at
                        any boast of what accidental circumstance or individual energy
                    may bring about. We have lately seen examples of changed fortune, wild as the
                    dreams of Alnaschar, but more successful.
                Sixty?eight years ago, on the deck of a vessel struggling through a stormy
                    passage to the island of Martinique, sate the mournful mother of a little girl
                    only three years old. This mother was young, beautiful, forsaken. Her husband,
                    being weary of her, had become “a little profligate,”—and the wife, yearning,—as
                    many a broken?hearted girl has yearned before, under such circumstances of
                    neglect and disappointment, for the old dear home of her childhood,—was
                    returning to her parents and friends. There was no fierceness in that woman’s
                    heart. Her grief was the gentle grief of Faust’s Margaret:—«Ich wein’,—ich wein’,—ich weine!»In love, and generous
                    devotion through life, she had scarcely her equal; and she had through life the
                    fate those women who seem to deserve it least, oftenest obtain. For that
                    mournful Creole, weeping alone on the stormy seas,—helplessly returning to her own family,—was Josephine de
                    Beauharnais, the neglected wife of the Vicomte de Beauharnais, afterwards the
                    repudiated Empress of Napoleon I., and that little child—who sate trembling in
                    the storm by its mother’s side,—was Hortense, afterwards Queen of Holland, and
                    mother of Napoleon III.
                If,—as that Creole mother wept,—some voice had whispered,—“Your lot is grief;
                    grief now, and grief, in spite of splendour, in the years to come: but you shall
                    be Empress of France: the little girl by your side shall be a Queen; her son an
                    Emperor; and the music of a chance love?song which that child shall compose in
                    after years, shall become the great solemn march and national hymn of France;
                    for ever making melody of triumph in her son’s ears, whether sounding on his
                    native shores among millions of electing subjects, or played in the royal
                    palaces of a rival nation, proud of reckoning on his friendship and alliance;
                    proud of hearing that melody become a familiar companion to their own ‘God save
                    the Queen!’”—I say, if such a whisper had come on the wild wind, and mingled
                    with the dash of the stormy spray, would not the fervent?hearted Creole have
                    shuddered with fear, lest delirium—not
                    hope—had taken possession of her mind?
                Exactly forty years before this present time, Napoleon the First, conquered by
                    the allies, came on board the English ship of war, the “Bellerophon.” He
                    proposed himself as a guest, and had to surrender as a prisoner. He asked
                    permission to reside an exile in England, and was ordered under closest guard to
                    St. Helena. The officers of his suite had their arms taken from them. The
                    Emperor himself was refused any title but that of General Bonaparte, as “Head of
                    the Army;” though he scornfully remarked that they might as well call him an
                    archbishop, for he had also been “Head of the Church,” and that at least he
                    should be First Consul, England having sent ambassadors to him by that style and
                    title. He wrote a vain appeal to the Prince Regent—“le plus puissant, le plus
                    constant, le plus genereux de mes ennemis;” he entered a vain protest against
                    being sent to his island prison. He said he never would go there; he refused to
                    nominate the persons who were to accompany him. He wrote to the English
                    ministry,—“Je ne suit point prisonnier; je suis l’hôte de
                    l’Angleterre.” “La foi Brittanique se trouvera perdue dans l’hospitalité du Bellerophon.” But the proud heart
                    had to yield. His generals were deprived of their arms. Bonaparte alone was “
                        permitted” to wear his sword when quitting the ship, by special
                    order from Admiral Lord Keith.
                When transferred from the Bellerophon to the Northumberland, his baggage was
                    examined; and from the boxes containing money, his valet was permitted to take
                    out such sum as was considered necessary for paying the wages of servants who
                    were to be left behind, for all were not allowed to accompany him.
                    One box (containing four thousand gold Napoleons) was detained; though
                    afterwards delivered to Sir Hudson Lowe to be returned to its owner. That these
                    proceedings were unexpected, and inexplicable to the French, we may presume from
                    the impossibility of persuading the two generals, Savary and Lallemand, that the
                    next step would not be to deliver them up for execution to the French
                    Government; and by the attempt made by the wife of General Bertrand to drown
                    herself from the cabin window of the English ship, as soon as the decision of
                    the Prince Regent became known.
                If any prophet had then said to that baffled man and conquered hero, Napoleon the
                        First:— “You cannot escape: Fate has
                    overtaken you: humiliation, exile, sickness, and death, are now your only
                    possible portion: nor shall even your son by your Austrian bride succeed
                    you,—though you wedded to found a dynasty on the hope of his birth! But the
                    grandson of your abjured and repudiated Josephine, shall, after many
                    vicissitudes, obtain peaceable possession of the throne of France; and shall be
                    the chief ally and friend of your enemy England. By a strange concurrence of
                    accidents, the nephew of your conqueror the Duke of Wellington, shall be the
                    English Ambassador to your nephew’s Court at Paris. When your nephew goes (as he
                        will go) on a triumphal visit to Great Britain, the English
                    people shall throng and crowd and swarm round the statue of the Duke of
                    Wellington (cast from the iron of his victories, and in memory of Waterloo), and
                    climb up the railing round its pedestal, to see your namesake go by, and cheer
                    him as he passes. And when, with the fair Consort who shall be his Empress, he
                    visits in state the Italian Opera House in England; the beautiful Duchess of
                    Wellington,—wife of your conqueror’s son,—and her cousin, the Marchioness of
                    Ely, shall be the attendant ladies, standing in graceful ceremony, while the Third Napoleon and
                    his Eugenie, shall be seated in friendly equality of discourse with Victoria,
                    Queen of Great Britain; the niece and successor of that Prince Regent to whom
                    your vain appeal was written; by whom the irrevocable decree of your exile and
                    nothingness was pronounced.
                “Nor shall the sum of French gold detained on board the Bellerophon, be a near
                    equivalent for the aggregate sums spent in preparation and feasting, in
                    sight?seeings and rejoicings, by that changed England which desires worthily to
                    receive your imperial successor. The City of London shall bid him to a festival
                    where all things shall be memories of the past. The porcelain on which the meats
                    are served, shall be painted for the occasion with your arms; the
                    doyleys shall be green velvet and gold spangled with your imperial bees. The
                    wines shall include, Malvoisie grown on Mount Ida, where Jupiter was nursed,—and
                    Amontillado ‘supplied at £600 a butt to Napoleon I.’ And that Guildhall, whose
                    Mayor, Aldermen, and Common Council once addressed Alexander of Russia in
                    congratulations on your downfall, which they termed, ‘the
                        deliverance of the afflicted nations of Europe from the most galling oppression and unprecedented tyranny that
                        ever visited the human race,’—shall echo equally flattering addresses to
                    your nephew, united with the English against Russia, and yearning
                    for the downfall of Alexander’s heir. And whereas two grievous orders have
                    fretted your officers; viz.: that all arms of every description are to be taken
                    from Frenchmen of all ranks on board this ship, and that only twelve domestics
                    shall be permitted to attend the Emperor and suite to St. Helena, (by which many
                    of them must go without their servants),—your nephew shall send, with his horses
                    alone, sixteen grooms to the royal stables; and under triumphal arches, and
                    palace portals, the English soldiers shall present arms to him as he passes:
                    while, patiently awaiting his arrival in the great fortified port of Dover, he
                    shall find the Prince Consort of England, Prince Albert of Saxe Cobourg; nephew
                    of Leopold of Saxe Cobourg, who wedded your enemy the Prince Regent’s only
                    child—and wedded, after her death, the King of France’s daughter; in the vacated
                    throne of which last king, your nephew shall hold regal state, such as no former
                    Monarch of France has ever surpassed.”
                
                I say, if—in his mournful passage to St. Helena,—or in his lone, sad, angry
                    rides, to and from Longwood,—or in dreary days, when gazing across the
                    surrounding waste of sea that divided him from the triumph of battles, and a
                    throned destiny, and the endearments of wife and son, and consigned him to a
                    living death,—this startling sketch of the future had been suggested as
                    possible, by Montholon, or Bertrand, or Las Casas, when talking with their
                    imperial master, would not even Napoleon have deemed it a vain dream?
                Or (more marvellous yet) if, at a date not known to us, because too obscure, when
                    Mr Kirkpatrick, a Scotch gentleman, was doing duty as consul at Malaga; worried
                    with the petty details of his consulate position; the clash of mercantile
                    interests, the perplexities of international law, the claims of mariners, the
                    jealousies of residents, the broiling heat of the southern climate, and the
                    disputes about nothing, which are always, in all consulates, arising about twice
                    every month, and are always said in the most imminent degree to threaten “the
                    dignity of the British flag,”—if, at that time, Mr Kirkpatrick, leaning back in
                    his chair, had said, “This is all very annoying, certainly; but I bear it with
                    the more cheerfulness, as one result of my 
                    residing in this Spanish town will be, that my daughter shall marry a Spanish
                    grandee; and the daughter of that marriage, being gifted with great beauty and
                    grace, shall, all in good time, go to England as visitor on equal terms with
                    England’s Queen. Workmen shall hammer, and hang, and gild, day and night, to
                    prepare a sleeping apartment, and sitting apartment, in Windsor Castle, worthy
                    to receive her; and the Queen shall stand on her own threshold, to give her
                    welcome and guide her in. A young and beautiful English marchioness shall be
                    specially appointed to wait upon her. She shall be ushered hither and thither by
                    the Prince Consort of Great Britain. Balls shall be given at court, at which she
                    shall reign undisputed star; the one lovely sight, of which all eyes endeavour
                    to catch a glimpse, be it ever so fleeting. And all this shall be done for my
                    dear grand?daughter, in right of her marriage with the grandson of another
                    gentleman, of no greater rank than myself; an advocate and judge at Ajaccio in
                    Corsica; because that gentleman’s son, a young artillery officer of great
                    military genius, became so powerful and so famous, that he was crowned Emperor
                    of France; made his brothers kings; his sisters queens; and grew, indeed, so formidable to Europe, that England, Russia,
                    Austria, and Prussia, combined to annihilate his power; and secured him at
                    length as the prisoner of that very England—where the consul of Malaga’s
                    grand?daughter shall, as I tell you, have so brilliant a reception, in right of
                    her marriage with the advocate of Ajaccio’s grandson”!
                If Mr Kirkpatrick had held this language, and had made this Cassandra?like
                    prophecy, while these events were as yet not even “looming in the distance,”
                    would not such persons as were interested in his welfare, have written home to
                    his friends, to tell them that “poor Mr. Kirkpatrick was gone out of his
                    mind;”—and the next eager candidate for the Malaga consulship, have privately
                    put his friends on the alert as to applications to the government on his
                    behalf,—“as it was probable there would be an immediate vacancy, on account of
                    the melancholy visitation with which it had please Heaven to afflict the present
                    consul”?
                God only sets the measure of what may be: and I say my son or
                    grandson may be Lord Chancellor, and may alter these laws in favour of the
                    lawless, at present in force in England. We have seen the last member of the
                        marvellous Corsican family, whose history
                    I have been sketching—(the present ruler of France)—declare to his Senate, that
                    he fears assassination the less, because he believes he has a mission from
                    Heaven yet unaccomplished. I believe,—in my obscurer position,—that
                    I am permitted to be the example on which a particular law shall be reformed.
                    Does that also create a smile? It is, nevertheless, only one form of belief in a
                    special Providence. If that is a ridiculous belief, what becomes of our “days of
                    humiliation,”—“special prayers,”—“fasts of propitiation,”—and perpetual calls
                    upon Heaven to interfere in the affairs of man? If it be a rational, and
                        not a ridiculous belief, where does the interposition of Heaven
                    begin and end? Does Providence only condescend to look down upon people and
                    objects that we poor worms, (in this speck of one of His million worlds,) choose
                    to consider “important”? Does it only interfere in behalf of sovereigns,
                    nations, and aggregate interests? Must the notice of Heaven be first attracted
                    by the distinctions of earth? Must the proper objects for selection be marked by
                    blue ribands, made out of the cocoons God gave us as a covering for a moth’s
                    unfinished wings,—ore and precious stones, which He scattered in the clay we tread upon,—and tossing plumes, which were
                    once the tail and wing feathers of a desert bird, fleeing before man over the
                    hot sands, part of whose track man shall never see: part of whose track, till
                    the day when earth consumes away like a scroll, shall remain among God’s “waste
                    and barren spaces”; glowing in arid and insufferable loneliness beneath the
                    All?seeing Eye, as they glowed on the day when Hagar wept on their borders, and
                    God answered the helpless gushing of a slave?woman’s tears, with the “special
                    Providence” of a miraculous and angel?guarded fountain!
                We believe, or we do not believe: if we believe, it
                    must be on the good old?fashioned Scriptural belief, that “the very hairs of our
                    head are numbered”; that Heaven has its own inscrutable means of working out its
                    own inscrutable designs; that God’s ways are not as our ways; that His
                    Providence guards the lowest, as it guards the highest; and that whether from
                    high or low, its instruments are chosen by a selection of its own!
                Mysterious to us are the rules by which it works: but among the most obvious
                    effects of those rules upon earth, is this which all history teaches; viz., that
                    in all cases of great injustice among men,
                    there comes a culminating point, after which that injustice is not
                        borne: whether that point arrive on the wrong of a peasant or the
                    wrong of a king. Things ripen in health and in disease: ripen alike for bloom
                    and for disgust. There is no standing still, in a world which God set
                    moving.
                In our little corner of the earth,—where so much besides is busy and fermenting
                    for change,—the time is ripely come for alteration in the laws for women. And
                    they will be changed.
                In vain would the sneerers declare, “This is folly; this is the mere rebellion of
                    a clever woman against the authority of her natural lord and master.” It is not
                    so. Real superiority will make itself felt—and my heart bows low and
                    reverentially before it, for I hold that it does not depend on the glitter of
                    human gifts. That man is not my superior who has greater comeliness of
                    appearance, or a quicker human intelligence; but he that is better,
                    stronger?hearted, and a more faithful servant of God. He who stands nearer to
                    glory than I, on that ladder to Heaven which angels tread; and will so stand in
                    its clear light, when human comeliness shall be black mould, and the sparkle of
                    human intelligence—darkness.
                
                Madam,—in families, as in nations, Rebellion is a disease that springs from the
                        malaria of bad government. WRONGS make
                        REBELS. Those who would dwell submissive in the
                    wholesome atmosphere of authority, revolt in the jail fever of tyranny.
                There is tyranny in these laws which uphold the strong against the weak; which
                    make so monstrous a difference between rich and poor. It ought not to be
                        possible, in this realm of England, that poor men should be
                    able to say,—“We are brought up for judgment before these gentlemen, because
                    laws are made against us, but not against them:
                        we get six months’ prison for ill?treating our wives, but
                    gentlemen seem able to do as they please. We get twelve months (as
                    Lord Brougham has said) for the embezzlement or theft of a few pence,—but
                        they can creep out of a money contract, and no law to check
                    them. We go to prison for bigamy, because we aint rich enough to
                    buy a divorce act; but, as for the rich man, who can pay for a
                    divorce act, his bigamy sets his son among the gentry, or among the peers of
                    England, and his lady among the other ladies of the land. Our hearts revolt
                    against being judged by men who are, in fact, more guilty than ourselves, though we are prisoners, and
                    some of them are magistrates,” By a very recently enacted statute, the law
                    compels the poor man to be responsible to the community at large, for the
                    maltreatment of his wife. Why should it seem grievous and shocking to make new
                    laws of restraint for gentlemen as well as for poor men? Is the right of
                    ill?usage a luxury belonging (like the possibility of divorce) to the superior
                    and wealthy classes?
                It ought not to be possible either, in this realm of England, that the spirit of
                    sectarianism should be stronger than the spirit of justice. In the Parliamentary
                    Debates of last session, (March 1, 1854), no less than twelve closely?printed
                    columns of the “Times” newspaper are filled with speeches from various members,
                    relative to an inquiry into the treatment of Roman Catholic ladies in the
                    conventual establishments of their religion; and, on another occasion, with the
                    battling whether a Catholic gentleman should or should not be able to put his
                    daughters to a Catholic school; the school?girl’s letters being gravely read to
                    the assembled Senate of England. What an impulse to humanity is an adverse
                    creed! Who would believe that these Protestant debaters, so anxious to control
                    Roman Catholics in their domestic relations,
                    are utterly revolted at the idea of submitting to any control themselves! That
                    these careful guardians of female property, who are struck with horror at the
                    idea of a young heiress being “over?persuaded” to give her money to a
                    nunnery,—will placidly see any amount of fraud committed, as long as it is
                    merely in their own Protestant circle. There is more fervour and ferment as to
                    the hanging of garlands in Knightsbridge Church, or the placing of Christ’s
                    emblem on Miss Sellon’s altar, than in any debate for the amendment of the
                    Marriage Laws, that has been forced on the reluctant attention of
                    Parliament.
                Neither ought it to be possible that the pleasures of a few idlers should be
                    better protected than the female portion of a whole community. If Mr Norton, a
                    magistrate and member of the aristocracy, had cheated at a game of cards in one
                    of the clubs of London, all England would have been ina ferment. Nay, even if he
                    had refused to pay a “debt of honour”—to a man—it would have been
                    reckoned a most startling and outrageous step! But, because the matter is only
                    between him and his wife,—because it is “only a woman,”—the whole complexion of
                    the case is altered. Only a woman! whom he can
                    libel with impunity, to find a loophole for escape or excuse.
                I declare, upon the holy Sacraments of God, that I was not Lord
                    Melbourne’s mistress; and, what is more, I do not believe (and nothing shall
                    ever make me believe), that Mr Norton ever thought that I was. In that miserable
                    fact is the root of all my bitterness, and of all his inconsistency! He never
                    had a real conviction (not even an unjust one), to make him consistent. He
                    wavered, because he was doing, not what he thought necessary and just, but what
                    he imagined would “answer:” and sometimes one thing appeared likely
                    to answer, and sometimes another. He thought the course he took respecting me
                    and my children, in 1836, would answer; and so far it did answer, that he is two
                    thousand a?year the richer. He thought his defence to the tradesman’s action, in
                    1853, would answer; and so far it did answer, that he is five hundred a?year the
                    richer. But he never believed the accusations on which he has twice
                    founded his gainful measures of expediency. He acknowledged that he did not
                    believe them, to others who have published his acknowledgment.
                It ought not to be possible that any man, by mock invocations to
                    justice, should serve a mere purpose of
                    interest or vengeance; it ought not to be possible that any man
                    should make “the law” his minister, in seeking not that which is just, but that
                    which may “answer.”
                I appeal whether this ought to be! Beyond the factious sectarianism which sees no
                    interest in debates, unless they unfurl the standard of religious war! Beyond
                    the circle of protected whist?players; and the few Haynaus of polite society who
                    see no reason for interference in the insult and degradation of English women,
                    though they raise an outcry at the barbarous custom of other countries! Beyond
                    the senate occupied with a hot discussion whether dogs shall be permitted to
                    draw carts,—whether the arms of Scotland are properly quartered with the arms of
                    England,—whether Roman Catholic gentlemen shall send their children to Roman
                    Catholic schools,—but not with the laws of protection for their own wives,
                    sisters, and daughters! I appeal from these sects and sections to the wider
                    England: to the mercantile classes,—the working lawyers,—the tradespeople (who
                    are cheated by these laws),—and to the common sense of the general Parliament of
                    Great Britain. It is not fit there should be one law for the poor and another
                    for the rich,—one law for the weak, and
                    another for the strong,—one law for England, and another for Scotland: and that
                    the effect of this confusion should be (by the admission of law?givers
                    themselves), scandal, outrage, and fraud; and an impossibility of carrying out
                    the ends of justice.
                There is needed in England, what is established by law in other countries; a
                    tribunal for marriage and divorce cases, with full power of control; and why
                    that power cannot be vested in the Court of Chancery (as the Lord Chancellor
                    proposed), it is for the legists who contradicted him to shew. One argument
                    against it is probably entirely fallacious; and that is the enormous increase of
                    business which these family disputes would bring: (even if we are to admit, that
                    justice should not be administered if its administration is to become
                    troublesome.) The same argument was used when the Infant Custody Bill was
                    passed. Lord Wynford then declared that, in consequence of this bill, “the judges would have a burden thrown upon them, which their
                        other duties rendered them wholly unable to bear. The husband, besides,
                        would be kept in a constant state of litigation from one end of the year to
                        the other.”
                We have now fifteen years’ experience to judge
                    the bill upon. Has that been the result? On the contrary, the exact truth and
                    clearsightedness of the answers made by Lord Lyndhurst, and the then Lord
                    Chancellor, have been proved to demonstration:—“If the husband
                        were to feel that there was a Power of Control residing somewhere, he would
                        not compel his wife to have recourse to an application for its exercise in
                        her behalf..... The bill, in fact, took the matter out of the hands of the
                        husband, and placed it in the hands of the independent judges of the highest
                        tribunals in the country. All the bill said, was that the husband should not
                        be judge in his own case.”
                Why should he be judge in his own case, in this, more than in any other litigated
                    matter? Why should there be such a dread of establishing a controlling power
                    over husbands? A good and just man need not fear that power; and why is a bad
                    and unjust man to defy the possibility of its exercise?
                Here is Lord Melbourne’s opinion in my case: the opinion of that minister whose
                    defence is sufficient for Prince Albert, but not sufficient for
                        me:—“Never, to be sure, was there such
                        conduct! To set on foot that sort of enquiry without the slightest real
                        ground for it! But it does not surprise
                        me. I have always known that there was there a mixture of folly and violence
                        which might lead to any absurdity or any injustice. Keep up your spirits;
                        agitate yourself as little as possible; do not be too anxious about rumours
                        and the opinion of ‘the world;’ being, as you are, innocent and in the
                        right, you will, in the end, bring everything round. Yours,
                    MELBOURNE.”
                Why is any man to have uncontrolled licence to commence a prosecution
                        “without the slightest real ground for it?” Why is the fact of
                    being innocent and “in the right” to go for nothing in English law,—and why is
                    the wife in such a case to have no more claim on the husband than if she were
                    divorced?
                Instead of my having any respect for these laws, they must of necessity, to me,
                    appear simply ridiculous. In vain would those who desire to see them maintained,
                    affect to sneer down my efforts to expose their absurdity, by affirming that
                    this is a “private quarrel,” which out to be kept private. It is not in the
                    private quarrel they are invited to interfere, but in the state of the English
                    law. That can hardly be called a private quarrel, which began in a
                    public prosecu? tion: but if it be a private
                    wrong, it ought to be redressible by public justice. A private quarrel,—what
                    other quarrel can law adjust? What were laws made for, but for redress of
                    private wrongs? Were they made, to decide disputes among nations? WAR is for nations: LAW is for
                    individuals, and in that country where private wrongs cannot be remedied,
                    national justice is at fault! A very shallow reader of history might prove, that
                    from time immemorial, changes in the laws of nations have been brought about by
                    individual examples of oppression. Such examples cannot be
                    unimportant, for they are, and ever will be, the little hinges on which the
                    great doors of justice are made to turn.
                That my case may be one such example, is no very ambitious hope. That the laws
                    may be changed in your Majesty’s reign,—in the reign of a woman and a Queen,—no
                    very exaggerated dream of romance. My miseries date from the time of your
                    Majesty’s accession. The years that you have spent as a happy wife and mother, I
                    have spent in a continual struggle for justice. The minister whose name and
                    whose authority is advanced by your Majesty to justify by acclamation the Prince
                    Consort, is quoted by my husband
                    as a means and a cause for my perpetual injury.
                It is impossible for me, when I reflect on my unjust position as an English
                    subject, not also to reflect on your Majesty’s position, as Queen of the country
                    where such laws are in force: and on the peculiar circumstances which,—even had
                    the case occurred to persons obscure and unknown, instead of to your Majesty’s
                    Prime Minister,—would warrant the hope, that the present Sovereign of England
                    might take peculiar interest in the reform of the laws which have made such
                    events possible.
                Not lone and vainglorious, like the virgin Queen Elizabeth,—nor childless, like
                    the hypochondriac Mary,—nor heirless, like the feeble?minded Anne,—more of “the
                    beauty of womanhood” adorns the destiny of Queen Victoria, than has belonged to
                    the barren reigns of former English Queens; and the link to all the interests of
                    woman’s life should be greater. More mercy may be expected from her, than from
                    the embittered daughter of wronged Catherine of Spain,—more love, than from the
                    haughty scion of degraded Anne Boleyn,—more justice, than from the weak and
                    capricious niece of Charles II.,—more thankfulness to God, and willingness to
                    help His less fortunate creatures, may be
                    supposed to exist in the heart of that royal wife and mother, who has been
                    permitted by Him to sail so far on the sea of life, without one storm (as yet)
                    to ruffle its changeful surface!
                In the history of those preceding female reigns, I find no trace of any attempt
                    to better the condition of laws for women.
                In the hard, stern, persecuting reign of her whose mother had been set aside for
                    the sake of the “Gospel light” that shone in Boleyn’s eyes,—women were burnt for
                    the faith’s sake; and that gentle and learned “child?wife,” Lady Jane Grey,
                    suffered unreprieved, for the ambition of others. Sending her last patient sigh
                    to heaven, on the same day (christened Black Monday), that fifteen gibbets were
                    erected for other executions. Mary was gloomy and pitiless: forsaken, like her
                    mother, by a king sooner wearied (and more justly wearied) than her inconstant
                    father, she left no trace of woman’s softness to relieve the fierce and joyless
                    history of her brief rule over England.
                Nor Anne; though governed by waiting women and female favourites; though the poor
                    crowned slave of the passionate Duchess of Marlborough, and the wily intrigante
                        Mrs Masham; though as “womanly” as folly
                    could make her, and the incapacity for a great position; feebly declaring,
                    during the quarrels of Harley and Bolingbroke, that “the disputes of her
                    ministers would kill her.” (A disease which, fortunately for us, is less
                    dangerous in the present reign; considering the height to which the fever of
                    such disputes has risen.) In all the thirteen years of her non?government, we
                    find no further protection of women than for the sake of that which is always
                    made the one plea of protection in mercantile England—property: and
                    we are rather startled than satisfied, when we read, that under Queen Anne, one
                    Haagen Swensden was tried and executed “for stealing and marrying Mistress
                    Pleasant Rawlins,” because she was an heiress.
                In Elizabeth’s reign—the Queen who preceded Anne, and immediately followed stern
                    Mary—matters were even worse; as indeed they should be; for those women whose
                    positions ought (one would imagine) to teach them most mercy, are often the most
                    severe. The unjust degradation,—the cruel execution,—the vainly touching
                    appeals,—of her mother, Anne Boleyn, (that mother who is by historians stated to
                    have bowed her heart to her licentious husband in her last miserable letter, that he might show kindness to her
                    child), taught Elizabeth no tenderness, and inspired her with no pardon for
                    those of her own sex who offended her. We are told to believe her chaste: to
                    believe that she took hearts but never gave one: that the barren pleasure of
                    vanity superseded the contemned passion of love: that she dazzled and flattered
                    the young, ardent, and comely, only to wean them from others, not to secure them
                    for herself: that she broke the heart of some foolish Amy Robsart, without
                    viewing the gain of a suitor in any other light than as a conqueror views the
                    gain of a province: that she no more knew the meaning of Göethe’s yearning and
                    regretful lines:—«Sein hoher Gang,—Sein’ edle
                            Gestalt,Seines Mundes Lächeln,—Seiner Augen Gewalt,Und
                            seiner Rede Zauberfluß,Sein Händedruck,—und ach sein
                    Fuß»than we know the meaning of the cabalistic Abracadabra in old books
                    of magic. Let us believe it. Let there be “no scandal about Queen
                    Elizabeth.”
                In the reign, then, of this “throned Vestal,” justice was so corruptly
                    administered, that, in the tenth and last
                    parliament she held, one of the members described a magistrate as “a person who, for a dozen chickens, would dispense with half a
                        dozen penal statutes.” Her haughty and uncurbed temper struck, with the
                    fierceness of a hawk, at all who had the misfortune to offend her. When Lady
                    Catherine Grey married the Earl of Hertford, they were divorced by the Queen’s
                    directions, after they had had two sons; and both were imprisoned and fined.
                    When Norfolk attempted to marry the Queen of Scots, she sent him to the Tower.
                    When Charles, Earl of Lenox, married Elizabeth Cavendish, she imprisoned
                        the mothers of the newly?wedded pair. When Leicester married
                    the Earl of Essex’s widow, she consigned him to prison—not for his sinful
                    love—but for her queenly jealousy. When Throgmorton was supposed to love, and
                    plot the escape of, Mary Queen of Scots, he was racked three times, and
                    afterwards executed; and she vainly attempted to force on Mary’s choice her own
                    creature Dudley, in the earlier days, before the axe of the executioner appeared
                    the readiest way of cutting the Gordian knot of state difficulties; before the
                    daughter of Anne Boleyn, whose mother had perished on the scaffold, signed with
                    her own hand the warrant that was to send
                    another Queen to the scaffold; and heard the same guns boom in triumph, that
                    sounded rough music in her father’s ears,—when they sent their wild echo of
                    freedom from London to Richmond, to tell him her mother was a headless
                    corpse.
                And with all these heavy governings of the living destinies and sorrowful deaths
                    of others, see what a true “woman” this great queen was. Read the account of
                    her, in the last two years of her life; after the more healthy and animated
                    energy was over, which caused her to box Lord Essex’s ears, and that petted
                    favourite to exclaim, “That he would not have taken such an insult from her
                    father, much less a king in petticoats.” Read the account given by Sir John
                    Harrington (her godson) and others,—which describe her frowning on all her
                    ladies, walking about her privy chamber, stamping at ill news, thrusting her
                    rusty sword into the arras in her great rage; swearing much,—“to
                    the no small discomfiture of those about her, especially our sweet Lady
                    Arundel;” “or chiding for small neglect, in such wise as to make these fayre
                    maides often cry and bewaile in piteous sort;” and finally (fearing to go to bed
                    lest she should never rise again) sitting for ten days on cushions on the
                    ground; gene? rally with her finger in her
                    mouth, and her eyes bent on the earth: till she died, and was buried, (at an
                    expense of £17,428), and her ransacked wardrobe attested her feminine love of
                    finery, by countless sets of jewels, and upwards of two thousand different
                    dresses!
                In this reign, the carrying off of an heiress, and rape, were made felony without
                    benefit of clergy; but then that severe protection was also given to those who
                    suffered robbery to the amount of five shillings in a house or out?house; so
                    that the protection of women remained much where it was. In the reign of George
                    I. one of Queen Anne’s maids of honour, Mary Forester,—having been married when
                    twelve years old to Sir George Downing, and that ungallant baronet, on returning
                    from his travels, declaring that she was not at all to his taste, that he would
                    have nothing to say to her, and that he utterly declined taking her to
                    wife;—“was persuaded to prefer a petition to the House of Lords to be divorced.”
                    All the bishops, and a majority of the peers, were against granting this
                    divorce; and Mary Forester remained nominal Lady Downing.
                The reign of George III. and of the precise Queen Charlotte, began with a
                        proclamation against vice and profaneness;
                    yet in September, 1771, that is, eleven years after the proclamation, there were
                    twenty?five cases pending in Doctor’s Commons, being a greater number than for
                    fifty years before: and in the summer preceding, a subject recovered £10,000
                    damages against one of the royal dukes (damages having been laid at £100,000).
                    Even then, the law seem to have followed its usual rule of confusion in support
                    of morality; for in the same year it occurred that two persons received an equal
                    punishment of being whipped round Covent Garden; one of those persons having
                    seduced his own niece, while the other—had stolen a bunch of
                        radishes.
                That, however, was a degree better than the proportion of the present day; when
                    (as Lord Brougham has shown) some defect in the working of “Justice’s justice,”
                    may consign a poor man to prison for twelve months for stealing to the value of
                    threepence; and a gentleman may do pretty nearly as he pleases. It is a state of
                    things that will not be borne much longer; we are anxious that the people should
                    learn a modern version of the lesson taught a century ago in “Ward’s Rhyming
                    Dialogues” about the study of “Common Things.” They will turn their attention also to the study of “Uncommon
                    Things;” and amongst the most remarkable of common, or uncommon, subjects for
                    reflection, are the inequalities of justice. A thing will be borne at one time,
                    that will become an impossibility at another. In the summer of 1717, two
                    soldiers were whipped almost to death, and turned out of the service, only for
                    wearing oak?boughs in their hats on the 29th of May. What would have been said
                    or done under such circumstances the 29th of last May? About six years before,
                    when Sir Cholmondely Dering was killed in a duel, an attempt was made to bring
                    in a bill against duelling, which it was found utterly impossible to pass; but,
                    in 1765, Lord Byron stood his trial before the Peers for killing Mr Chaworth; in
                    1804, a jury convicted Captain Best of wilful murder for his fatal duel with
                    Lord Camelford; and, in 1808, Major Campbell was executed for his fatal duel
                    with Captain Boyd. Who thinks of fighting a duel now? Or, who thinks of a
                    hundred other changes, as complete and more important?
                And now it is the fashion amongst legists to work very heartily at
                        “assimilating” this law and that law,—“assimilating” the law of
                    evidence in England and Scotland; and the law of partnership; and the commercial law for bills of exchange. On this last, the
                    Lord Advocate observes, that “it is a matter of astonishment
                        that the law of bills of exchange has remained so long in the barbarous
                        state it is at present.” And Sir Erskine Perry (who has been in India)
                    says, much remains to do, but much has been done since Bentham’s time, when the
                    field of English law was “a wild jungle.” Does it not occur to these and other
                    authorities, that the law of “might is right” savours also rather
                    of the “wild jungle,” than of the calm enactments of a civilised Christian
                    country? and that the principle of “assimilation” might be extended with
                    advantage to those laws between husband and wife, which are utterly at variance
                    North and South of the river Tweed?
                Twenty years ago, the Warrender case occupied public attention; and Lord
                    Brougham, when speaking on that case, summed up, in his usual graphic manner,
                    the absurd contradictions involved by the conflict of Scotch and English law.
                    Lord Lyndhurst, following in the same case, and remarking on the same
                    absurdities, stated that Lord Eldon had intended to bring in a Bill to reconcile
                    the difference between the laws of the two countries. Where is the Bill of that sagacious old lawyer, whose countenance
                    so much resembled the physiognomy of the bird of Minerva, that Sydney Smith
                    said, “no man ever could be as wise, as Lord Eldon
                        looked?” At the end of twenty years from that declaration of
                    Lord Lyndhurst’s, we are still pottering over piecemeal changes: still bringing
                    in feeble Bills to “prevent Border marriages,” or fine those who “witness”
                    weddings at Gretna Green! Actually, many of our own legislators, and all the
                    foreigners I ever talked with on the subject, believe Gretna to be an
                    exceptional town, or spot, where marriage is possible by some exceptional law;
                    not knowing that Gretna is merely the nearest place for English parties to avail
                    themselves of Scotch law,—the nearest point in Scotland English lovers can
                    reach. Irish parties did not go to Gretna. Irish parties eloped to Port Patrick,
                    and were married there, as the nearest point in Scotland they could
                    reach; and it may perhaps amaze my readers to learn, that the Scotch complained
                    of English immorality, and attributed their skipping across their borders, to an
                    attempt to make marriages they could afterwards evade by English law; cheating
                    the innocent Caledonians into unions with them, and afterwards discarding the
                    objects of their choice; and the Scotch
                    themselves, consequently endeavoured to prevent these Border marriages. Yet here
                    we are, still labouring over this knotty point: these Cyclops of the law, who
                    can only see with one eye, narrowly peeping at, and puzzling over, one single
                    aspect of their many difficulties; when it must be obvious to common sense, on a
                    broad general view of those difficulties, that what is needed is an
                    “assimilation” of the law,—what is needed is, that the Northern portion and
                    Southern portion of your Majesty’s dominions should be brought under
                        one law; and there the conflict would cease.
                There the conflict would cease. I do not say, there a better protection would
                    begin; for I cannot prophesy whether Lord Cranworth’s views, or those of Lords
                    Eldon, Thurlow, and Rosslyn, would preponderate; whether, in the “assimilation”
                    that would take place, a better mercy to women would be borrowed from portions
                    of the Scotch law, or the Desdemonas of Scotland be smothered by a jealous
                    English legislation.
                But this I will venture to say: that in no country in Europe is there in
                        fact so little protection of women, as in England! In France a
                    married woman may be arrested for debt; but in
                    France a married woman is under the careful protection of the law, and her
                    husband under the strict control of the law; indeed, the law of France views the
                    position of women with peculiar indulgence. In Germany, Austria, Prussia,
                    Holland, Sweden, and Russia, (as I will prove by a handbook of those laws which
                    I am preparing for the press,) the rules of interference for the protection of
                    married women are infinitely more favorable than in our own country.
                I have, as I said before, learned the English law piecemeal, by suffering under
                    it. My husband is a lawyer; and he has taught it me, by exercising over my
                    tormented and restless life, every quirk and nibble of its tyranny; of its
                        acknowledged tyranny;—acknowledged, again I say, not by
                    wailing, angry, despairing women, but by Chancellors, ex?Chancellors, legal
                    reformers, and members of both Houses of Parliament. And yet nothing is done!
                    indeed, when the Solicitor?General, May 10th, in this session, informed the
                    House that the delayed Marriage Bill would be brought forward “as soon as the
                    House had expressed an opinion on the Testamentary Jurisdiction Bill,” there was
                    a good?humoured laugh at the very vague prospect held out,—but nobody murmured;
                        for nobody greatly cared when it should
                    come on; or whether it ever came on at all.
                Nevertheless, so long as human nature is what it is, some marriages must be
                    unhappy marriages, instead of following that theory of intimate and sacred union
                    which they ought to fulfil: and the question is, therefore, what is to be the
                    relation of persons living in a state of alienation, instead of a state of
                    union,—all the existing rules for their social position being based on the first
                    alternative,—namely, that they are in a state of union,—and on the
                    supposition that marriage is indissoluble, though Parliament has now decided
                    that it is a civil contract? Divorced or undivorced, it is absolutely necessary
                    that the law should step in, to arrange that which is disarranged by this most
                    unnatural condition. It becomes perfectly absurd that the law which appoints the
                    husband legal protector of the woman, should not (failing him who has ceased to
                    be a protector, and has become a very powerful foe) itself undertake her
                    protection. She stands towards the law, by an illustration which I have
                    repeatedly made use of,—in the light of an ill?used inferior; and she is the
                        only inferior in England who cannot claim to be so
                    protected.
                Those women who desire to learn, in a more
                    formal and direct manner, what the laws are,—have only to refer to Macqueen,
                    Ferguson, Hosack, and other law writers. There they may read,—that if a
                    collection could be made of all municipal rules as to divorce, it “would appear
                    little better than a ludicrous exhibition of human inconsistency and caprice;”
                    that, till the celebrated Council of Trent, even the Roman Catholic Church had
                    been “constantly shifting to all points between the opposite extremes on the
                    subject of divorce;” that under the Greek Church, and in the Protestant states
                    of Europe, the utmost diversity of rules still prevails,—“from the extreme of
                    refusing to give divorce a vinculo, even for
                    adultery,—to the opposite extreme of allowing dissolution of marriage for causes
                    which our law accounts perfectly frivolous;” that when the Council of Trent
                    promulgated its canons De sacramento
                        Matrimonii, the same chapter which said, “Accursed is he who
                    affirms that marriage can be made dissoluble,” also contained a similar anathema
                    against any one who should affirm marriage to be a superior condition to
                    virginity or a state of celibacy—any one who should affirm it superstitious to
                    forbid marriage at certain seasons of the year—or any one who denied that
                        the right of jurisdiction in matrimonial
                        cases belongs to the Ecclesiastical Courts; under which last canon
                    will come Lords Cranworth and Campbell, and all the Peers and Commons voting
                    with them for reform in the piecemeal law of England;—of that country which
                    publishes a Liturgy for its Established Church, containing a Roman Catholic
                    ceremony for marriage; overrules the vows of that ceremony by Acts of
                    Parliament; evades them by the Marriage Registration Act; solemnly quotes them,
                    as an argument for keeping women to the indissoluble bond; and sets them at
                    defiance (as a form involving no legal obligation), when the indissoluble bond
                    is to be broken for men!
                There, also, women may comfort themselves by reading, that Lord Eldon, after
                    thirty years’ experience in the highest court of judicature in the kingdom,
                    reversed his earlier opinions, and stated that he “saw no reason why a woman was
                    not as much entitled to sue for divorce as a man:”—that Mr Hallam
                    writes,—“Nothing can be more absurd than our modern privilegia; our Acts of Parliament to break the marriage bond;
                    neither do I see how we can justify the denial of redress to women, in every
                    case of adultery and desertion:”—that Montesquieu affirmed the law to be “very
                        tyran? nical” which gives the right to men
                    and denies it to women;—adding, that women are less likely to abuse the
                    privilege than men, because a woman rarely improves her position by repudiating
                    her husband.
                They may read Milton, Gibbon, and Hume,—or the more pious Paley,—in such chapters
                    and sections of these authors as treat on the subject. They may read also, how
                    the Scotch and English subjects of Queen Victoria are as differently dealt with
                    as though they were subjects of two different countries, and under two different
                    sovereigns; and how, from time to time, great and clever men have expressed
                    their opinion of the absolute necessity of “assimilating” those conflicting
                    laws.
                They may read lists of the names of those at present employed in law offices
                    under the crown: and find, to their amazement,—in that helpless group who
                    consider these reforms “so surrounded with difficulty,” that they can do
                    nothing,—Lord Chancellor Cranworth, and Lord Chief Justice Campbell, heading
                    famous and familiar lawyer—names; some, with already an hereditary claim to
                    distinction, and some, whose able and energetic pleading will make their names a
                    boast to their sons. They may refer to the
                    former speeches of men like Lyndhurst and Brougham,—whose celebrity began so
                    early in life, that they are still here to enjoy and add to it; though their
                    youthful triumphs are almost a matter of history to the rising generation. All
                    this, women may study: and when they have read all which they have time,
                    patience, or inclination to read, and ability to understand,—they may take their
                    crochet?work, embroidery, or “Potichomanie,” and ruminate over their needles and
                    paste?brushes, how it is that laws continue to be in force, which such men
                    themselves have so repeatedly condemned, as a mass of folly, indecency, and
                    contradiction!
                I hope, during this period of tranquil reflection, the rebellious thought may not
                    occur to the tapestry?working sex, that the obstacle to this legal reform must
                    be, that men fear to curb the license of their own pleasures. It is impossible,
                    seeing how eager, energetic, and enthusiastic, men are in other
                    reforms whose necessity is once proved and admitted, not to fancy that the
                    reason why this particular change is “so surrounded with
                    difficulty” is because it is extremely unpalatable to the reformers! I
                    think—to use the words of the Solicitor?General— the House “will express an opinion on the Testamentary Jurisdiction Bill”
                    with infinitely more speed, clearness, and decision, than on a Marriage Reform
                    Bill. Every man seems to dread that he is surrendering some portion of his own
                    rights over woman, in allowing these laws to be revised; even while he admits
                    that abuses which are “a disgrace to England,” blot the strange barbarous code,
                    which remains intact while other barbarous laws have gradually been repealed or
                    altered.
                To all that women can read on the subject, I add this more familiarly easy
                    treatise; and I shall follow this treatise by a published selection of “
                        Cases, decided according to Law, and contrary to Justice;”
                    admitted to be so decided even by the judges and counsel engaged in them; the
                    sentences given being often accompanied by courteous and sincere expressions of
                    regret at their manifest oppression; and by a hope that the code might be
                    altered, which made such sentences compulsory on the persons whose duty it was
                    “to administer the law as they found it.” My husband has taught me, by
                    subpœnaing my publishers to account for my earnings,—that my gift of writing was
                    not meant for the purposes to which I have hitherto applied it. It was not intended that I should “strive for peace and
                    ensue it” through a life of much occasional bitterness and many unjust trials;
                    that I should prove my literary ability, by publishing melodies and songs for
                    young girls and women to sing in happier homes than mine,—or poetry and prose
                    for them to read in leisure hours,—or even please myself by better and more
                    serious attempts to advocate the rights of the people, or the education and
                    interests of the poor.
                When Mr Norton allowed me, I say, to be publicly subpœnaed in court, to defend
                    himself by a quibble from a just debt, and subpœnaed my publishers to meet me
                    there, he taught me what my gift of writing was worth. Since he would not leave
                    even that source tranquil and free in my destiny, let him have the
                    triumph of being able at once to embitter and to turn its former current. He has
                    made me dream that it was meant for a higher and stronger purpose,—that gift
                    which came not from man, but from God. It was meant to enable me to rouse the
                    hearts of others to examine into all the gross injustice of these laws,—to ask
                    the “nation of gallant gentlemen,” whose countrywoman I am, for once to hear a
                    woman’s pleading on the subject. Not because I deserve more at their hands than other women. Well I know, on the
                    contrary, how many hundreds, infinitely better than I,—more pious, more patient,
                    and less rash under injury,—have watered their bread with tears! My plea to
                    attention is, that in pleading for myself I am able to plead for all these
                    others. Not that my sufferings or my deserts are greater than theirs; but that I
                    combine, with the fact of having suffered wrong, the power to comment on and
                    explain the cause of that wrong; which few women are able to do.
                For this, I believe, God gave me the power of writing. To this I
                    devote that power. I abjure all other writing, till I see these laws altered. I
                    care not what ridicule or abuse may be the result of that declaration. They who
                    cannot bear ridicule and abuse, are unfit and unable to advance any
                    cause; and once more I deny that this is my personal cause; it is the cause of
                    all the women of England. If I could be justified and happy
                    tomorrow, I would still strive and labour in it; and if I were to die to?morrow,
                    it would still be a satisfaction to me that I had so striven. Meanwhile, my
                    husband has a legal lien (as he has publicly proved), on the copyright of my
                    works. Let him claim the copyright of THIS: and let the Lord Chancellor, whose office is thus
                    described in Chamberlayne’s State of England,—“To judge, not
                        according to the Common Law, as other Civil Courts do, but to moderate the
                        rigour of the Law, and to judge according to Equity, Conscience, and Reason:
                        and his Oath is to do right to all manner of People, poor and rich, after
                        the Laws and Customs of the Realm, and truly counsel the King,”—let the
                    Lord Chancellor, I say,—the “Summa Cancellarius” of Great Britain, cancel, in Mr
                    Norton’s favour,—according to the laws and customs of this realm of England,—my
                    right to the labour of my own brain and pen; and docket it, among forgotten
                    Chancery Papers, with a parody of Swift’s contemptuous labelling.
                “Only a Woman’s Pamphlet.”
                But let the recollection of what I write, remain with those who read; and above
                    all, let the recollection remain with your Majesty, to whom it is addressed; the
                    one woman in England who cannot suffer wrong; and whose royal
                    assent will be formally necessary to any Marriage Reform Bill which the Lord
                    Chancellor, assembled Peers, and assembled Commons, may think fit to pass, in the Parliament of this free
                    nation; where, with a Queen on the throne, all other married women are legally “
                        NON?EXISTENT.”
                
                    I remain, With the sincerest loyalty and respect, Your Majesty’s humble
                        and devoted Subject and Servant,
                    CAROLINE ELIZABETH SARAH NORTON.
                    No. 3, CHESTERFIELD STREET, MAY FAIR, This 2nd day of June,
                        1855.
                

    
