
     ----CITATION----
        Braddon, M.E. (Mary Elizabeth) (1837-1915). Lady Audley's Secret, Volume 3. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 313 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (06-February-1999 ).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7088
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    LADY AUDLEY'S SECRET. 
                
                BY M.E. BRADDON, AUTHOR OF “AURORA FLOYD.”
                IN THREE VOLUMES.
                VOL. III.
                
                    LONDON: 
                    TINSLEY BROTHERS,
                        8, CATHERINE STREET, STRAND.
                
                1862.
                [The right of Translation is reserved.]
                
                
                    LONDON: BRADBURY AND EVANS, PRINTERS, WHITEFRIARS.
                
            
            
                
                CONTENTS.
                
                    CHAPTER I. THE RED LIGHT IN THE SKY 1
                    CHAPTER II. THE BEARER OF TIDINGS 39
                    CHAPTER III. MY LADY TELLS THE TRUTH 70
                    CHAPTER IV. THE HUSH THAT SUCCEEDS THE TEMPEST 103
                    CHAPTER V. DR. 
                        MGSGRAVE'S
                        MOSGRAVE'S
                     ADVICE 129
                    CHAPTER VI. 
                        BUOIED
                        BURIED
                     ALIVE 149
                    CHAPTER VII. GHOST-HAUNTED 175
                    CHAPTER VIII. THAT WHICH THE DYING MAN HAD TO TELL 220
                    CHAPTER IX. RESTORED 252
                    CHAPTER X. AT PEACE 274
                
            
        
        
        
            LADY AUDLEY'S SECRET.
            
            
                CHAPTER I.
                THE RED LIGHT IN THE SKY.
                THE door between my lady's dressing-room and the bedchamber in which Sir
                    Michael lay, had been left open. The baronet slept peacefully, his noble face
                    plainly visible in the subdued lamplight. His breathing was low and regular, his
                    lips curved in a half smile—a smile of tender happiness which he often wore when
                    he looked at his beautiful wife the smile of an all-indulgent father, who looked
                    admiringly at his favourite child.
                Some touch of womanly feeling, some sentiment of compassion softened Lady
                    Audley's glance as it fell upon that noble reposing figure.  For a moment the horrible egotism of her own misery
                    yielded to her pitying tenderness for another. It was perhaps only a
                    semi-selfish tenderness after all, in which pity for herself was as powerful as
                    pity for her husband; but for once is a way, her thoughts ran out of the narrow
                    groove of her own terrors and her own troubles to dwell with prophetic grief
                    upon the coming sorrows of another.
                “If they make him believe, how wretched he will be,” she thought.
                But intermingled with that thought there was another—there was the thought of her
                    lovely face, her bewitching manner, her arch smile, her low musical laugh, which
                    was like a peal of silvery bells ringing across a broad expanse of flat pasture,
                    and a rippling river in the misty summer evening. She thought of all these
                    things with a transient thrill of triumph, which was stronger even than her
                    terror.
                If Sir Michael Audley lived to be a hundred years old, whatever he might learn to
                    believe of her, however he might grow to despise her, would  he ever be able to disassociate her from these
                    attributes? No; a thousand times, no. To the last hour of his life his memory
                    would present her to him invested with the loveliness that had first won his
                    enthusiastic admiration, his devoted affection. Her worst enemies could not rob
                    her of that fairy dower which had been so fatal in its influence upon her
                    frivolous mind.
                She paced up and down the dressing-room in the silvery lamplight, pondering upon
                    the strange letter which she had received from Robert Audley. She walked
                    backwards and forwards in that monotonous wandering for some time before she was
                    able to steady her thoughts—before she was able to bring the scattered forces of
                    her narrow intellect to bear upon the one all-important subject of the threat
                    contained in the barrister's letter.
                “He will do it,” she said, between her set teeth; “he will do it, unless I get
                    him into a lunatic asylum first; or unless—”
                She did not finish the thought in words. She did not even think out the sentence;
                    but some  new and unnatural impulse in her heart
                    seemed to beat out each syllable against her breast.
                The thought was this: “He will do it, unless some strange calamity befalls him
                    and silences him for ever.” The red blood flashed up into my lady's face with as
                    sudden and transient a blaze as the flickering flame of a fire, and died as
                    suddenly away, leaving her more pale than winter snow. Her hands, which had
                    before been locked convulsively together, fell apart and dropped heavily at her
                    sides. She stopped in her rapid pacing to and fro—stopped as Lot's wife may have
                    stopped, after that fatal backward glance at the perishing city, with every
                    pulse slackening, with every drop of blood congealing in her veins, in the
                    terrible process that was to transform her from a woman into a statue.
                Lady Audley stood still for about five minutes in that strangely statuesque
                    attitude, her head erect, her eyes staring straight before her—staring far
                    beyond the narrow boundary of her chamber wall, into dark distances of peril and
                    horror.
                
                But, by-and-by, she started from that rigid attitude almost as abruptly as she
                    had fallen into it. She roused herself from that semi-lethargy, and walked
                    rapidly to her dressing-table, and seating herself before it, pushed away the
                    litter of golden-stoppered bottles, and delicate china-essence-boxes, and looked
                    at her reflection in the large oval glass. She was very pale; but there was no
                    other traces of agitation visible in her girlish face. The lines of her
                    exquisitely-moulded lips were so beautiful, that it was only a very close
                    observer who could have perceived a certain rigidity that was unusual to them.
                    She saw this herself, and tried to smile away that statue-like immobility; but
                    to-night the rosy lips refused to obey her, they were firmly locked, and were no
                    longer the slaves of her will and pleasure. All the latent forces of her
                    character concentrated themselves in this one feature. She might command her
                    eyes; but she could not control the muscles of her mouth. She rose from before
                    her dressing-table and took a dark velvet cloak and bonnet from the recesses of
                    her 
                        ward-
                        wardrobe
                     robe, and dressed herself for walking.
                    The little ormolu clock on the chimney-piece struck the quarter after eleven
                    while Lady Audley was employed in this manner; five minutes afterwards, she
                    re-entered the room in which she had left Phœbe Marks.
                The innkeeper's wife was sitting before the low hearth very much in the same
                    attitude as that in which her late mistress had brooded over that lonely hearth
                    earlier in the evening. Phœbe had replenished the fire, and had reassumed her
                    bonnet and shawl. She was anxious to get home to that brutal husband, who was
                    only too apt to fall into some mischief in her absence. She looked up as Lady
                    Audley entered the room, and uttered an exclamation of surprise at seeing her
                    late mistress in a walking costume.
                “My lady,” she cried, “you are not going out to-night?”
                “Yes, I am Phœbe,” Lady Audley answered, very quietly; “I am going to Mount
                    Stanning with you, to see this bailiff, and to pay and dismiss him myself.”
                
                “But, my lady, you forget what the time is; you can't go out at such an hour.”
                Lady Audley did not answer. She stood, with her fingers resting lightly upon the
                    handle of the bell, meditating quietly.
                “The stables are always locked, and the men in bed by ten o'clock,” she murmured,
                    “when we are at home. It will make a terrible hubbub to get a carriage ready;
                    but yet I dare say one of the servants could manage the matter quietly for me.”
                “But why should you go to-night, my lady?” cried Phœbe Marks. “To-morrow will do
                    quite as well. A week hence will do as well. Our landlord would take the man
                    away if he had your promise to settle the debt.”
                Lady Audley took no notice of this interruption. She went hastily into the
                    dressing-room, and flung off her bonnet and cloak, and then returned to the
                    boudoir, in her simple dinner costume, with her curls brushed carelessly away
                    from her face. “Now, Phœbe Marks, listen to me,” she said, grasping her confidante's wrist, and  speaking in a low, earnest voice, but with a certain
                    imperious air that challenged contradiction, and commanded obedience.
                “Listen to me, Phœbe,” she said, “I am going to the Castle Inn, to-night; whether
                    it is early or late is of very little consequence to me; I have set my mind upon
                    going, and I shall go. You have asked me why, and I have told you. I am going in
                    order that I may pay this debt myself, and that I may see for myself that the
                    money I give is applied to the purpose for which I give it. There is nothing out
                    of the common course of life in my doing this. I am going to do what other women
                    in my position very often do. I am going to assist a favourite servant.”
                “But it's getting on for twelve o'clock, my lady,” pleaded Phœbe.
                Lady Audley frowned impatiently at this interruption.
                “If my going to your house to pay this man should be known,” she continued, still
                    retaining her hold of Phœbe's wrist, “I am ready to answer for my conduct: but I
                    would rather that  the business should be kept
                    quiet. I think that I can leave this house and return to it without being seen
                    by any living creature, if you will do as I tell you.”
                “I will do anything that you wish, my lady,” answered Phœbe, submissively.
                “Then you will wish me good-night presently, when my maid comes into the room,
                    and you will suffer her to show you out of the house. You will cross the
                    courtyard and wait for me in the avenue upon the other side of the archway. It
                    may be half an hour before I am able to join you, for I must not leave my room
                    till the servants have all gone to bed; but you may wait for me patiently, for
                    come what may, I will join you.”
                Lady Audley's face was no longer pale. An unnatural crimson spot burned in the
                    centre of each rounded cheek, an an unnatural lustre gleamed in her great blue
                    eyes. She spoke with an unnatural clearness, and an unnatural rapidity. She had
                    altogether the appearance and manner of a person who has yielded to the dominant
                    influence of some overpowering excitement. 
                    Phœbe Marks stared at her late mistress in mute bewilderment. She began to fear
                    that my lady was going mad.
                The bell which Lady Audley rang was answered by the smart lady's-maid, who wore
                    rose-coloured ribbons and black silk gowns, and other adornments which were
                    unknown to the humble people who sat below the salt in the good old days when
                    servants wore linsey-woolsey.
                “I did not know that it was so late, Martin,” said my lady, in that gentle tone
                    which always won for her the willing service of her inferiors. “I have been
                    talking with Mrs. Marks, and have let the time slip by me. I shan't want
                    anything to-night, so you may go to bed when you please.”
                “Thank you, my lady,” answered the girl, who looked very sleepy, and had some
                    difficulty in repressing a yawn even in her mistress's presence, for the Audley
                    housebold usually kept very early hours. “I'd better show Mrs. Marks out, my
                    lady, hadn't I?” asked the maid, “before I go to bed?”
                “Oh, yes, to be sure, you can let Phœbe out. 
                    All the other servants have gone to bed, then, I suppose?”
                “Yes, my lady.”
                Lady Audley laughed as she glanced at the time-piece.
                “We have been terribly dissipated up here, Phœbe,” she said. “Good-night. You may
                    tell your husband that his rent shall be paid.”
                “Thank you very much, my lady, and good-night,” murmured Phœbe, as she backed out
                    of the room followed by the lady's maid.
                Lady Audley listened at the door, waiting till the muffled sound of their
                    footsteps died away in the octagon chamber, and on the carpeted staircase.
                “Martin sleeps at the top of the house,” she said, “ever so far away from this
                    room. In ten minutes I may safely make my escape.”
                She went back into her dressing-room, and put on her cloak and bonnet for the
                    second time. The unnatural colour still burnt like a flame in her cheeks, the
                    unnatural light still glittered in her eyes. The excitement which she was under
                         held her in so strong a spell that neither
                    her mind nor her body seemed to have any consciousness of fatigue. However
                    verbose I may be in my description of her feelings, I can never describe a tithe
                    of her thoughts or her sufferings. She suffered agonies that would fill closely
                    printed volumes, bulky with a thousand pages, in that one horrible night. She
                    underwent volumes of anguish, and doubt, and perplexity. Sometimes repeating the
                    same chapters of her torments over and over again. Sometimes hurrying through a
                    thousand pages of her misery without one pause, without one moment of breathing
                    time. She stood by the low fender in her boudoir, watching the minute hand of
                    the clock, and waiting till it should be time for her to leave the house in
                    safety.
                “I will wait ten minutes,” she said, “not a moment beyond, before I enter on my
                    new peril.”
                She listened to the wild roaring of the March wind, which seemed to have risen
                    with the stillness and darkness of the night.
                
                The hand slowly made its inevitable way to the figures which told that the ten
                    minutes were past. It was exactly a quarter to twelve when my lady took her lamp
                    in her hand, and stole softly from the room. Her footfall was as light as that
                    of some graceful wild animal, and there was no fear of that airy step awakening
                    any echo upon the carpeted stone corridors and staircase. She did not pause
                    until she reached the vestibule upon the ground floor. Several doors opened out
                    of this vestibule, which was octagon, like my lady's ante-chamber. One of these
                    doors led into the library, and it was this door which Lady Audley opened softly
                    and cautiously.
                To have attempted to leave the house secretly by any of the principal outlets
                    would have been simple madness, for the housekeeper herself superintended the
                    barricading of the great doors, back and front. The secrets of the bolts, and
                    bars, and chains, and bells which secured these doors, and provided for the
                    safety of Sir Michael Audley's plate-room, the door of which was lined with sheet-iron, were known only to the servants who
                    had to deal with them. But although all these precautions were taken with the
                    principal entrances to the citadel, a wooden shutter and a slender iron bar,
                    light enough to be lifted by a child, were considered sufficient safeguard for
                    the half-glass door which opened out of the breakfast-room into the gravelled
                    pathway and smooth turf in the courtyard.
                It was by this outlet that Lady Audley meant to make her escape. She could easily
                    remove the bar and unfasten the shutter, and she might safely venture to leave
                    the window ajar while she was absent. There was little fear of Sir Michael's
                    awaking for some time, as he was a heavy sleeper in the early part of the night,
                    and had slept more heavily than usual since his illness.
                Lady Audley crossed the library, and opened the door of the breakfast-room which
                    communicated with it. This latter apartment was one of the later additions to
                    the Court. It was a simple, cheerful chamber, with brightly-papered walls and pretty maple furniture, and was more
                    occupied by Alicia than any one else. The paraphernalia of that young lady's
                    favourite pursuits were scattered about the room—drawing-materials, unfinished
                    scraps of work, tangled skeins of silk, and all the other tokens of a careless
                    damsel's presence; while Miss Audley's picture—a pretty crayon sketch of a
                    rosy-faced hoyden in a riding-habit and hat—hung over the quaint Wedgwood
                    ornaments on the chimneypiece. My lady looked upon these familiar objects with
                    scornful hatred flaming in her blue eyes.
                “How glad she will be if any disgrace befalls me!” she thought; “how
                        she will rejoice if I am driven out of this house!”
                Lady Audley set the lamp upon a table near the fireplace, and went to the window.
                    She removed the iron bar and the light wooden shutter, and then opened the glass
                    door. The March night was black and moonless, and a gust of wind blew in upon
                    her as she opened this door, and filled the room with its chilly breath,
                    extinguishing the lamp upon the table.
                
                “No matter,” my lady muttered, “I could not have left it burning. I shall know
                    how to find my way through the house when I come back. I have left all the doors
                    ajar.”
                She stepped quickly out upon the smooth gravel, and closed the glass-door behind
                    her. She was afraid lest that treacherous wind should blow-to the door opening
                    into the library, and thus betray her.
                She was in the quadrangle now, with that chill wind sweeping against her, and
                    swirling her silken garments round her with a shrill rustling noise, like the
                    whistling of a sharp breeze against the sails of a yacht. She crossed the
                    quadrangle and looked back—looked back for a moment at the fire-light gleaming
                    through the rosy-tinted curtains in her boudoir, and the dim gleam of the lamp
                    behind the mullioned windows in the room where Sir Michael Audley lay asleep.
                “I feel as if I was running away,” she thought. “I feel as if I was running away
                    secretly in the dead of the night, to lose myself and be forgotten. Perhaps it
                    would be wiser in me to run away, to  take this
                    man's warning, and escape out of his power forever. If I were to run away and
                    disappear—as George Talboys disappeared. But where could I go? What would become
                    of me? I have no money: my jewels are not worth a couple of hundred pounds, now
                    that I have got rid of the best part of them. What could I do? I must go back to
                    the old life, the old, hard, cruel, wretched life—the life of poverty, and
                    humiliation, and vexation, and discontent. I should have to go back and wear
                    myself out in that long struggle, and die—as my mother died, perhaps.”
                My lady stood still for a moment on the smooth lawn between the quadrangle and
                    the archway, with her head drooping upon her breast and her hands locked
                    together, debating this question in the unnatural activity of her mind. Her
                    attitude reflected the state of that mind—it expressed irresolution and
                    perplexity. But presently a sudden change came over her; she lifted her
                    head—lifted it with an action of defiance and determination.
                “No, Mr. Robert Audley,” she said aloud, in a 
                    low, clear voice; “I will not go back—I will not go back. If the struggle
                    between us is to be a duel to the death, you shall not find me drop my weapon.”
                She walked with a firm and rapid step under the archway. As she passed under that
                    massive arch, it seemed as if she disappeared into some black gulf that had
                    waited open to receive her. The stupid clock struck twelve, and the solid
                    masonry seemed to vibrate under its heavy strokes, as Lady Audley emerged upon
                    the other side, and joined Phœbe Marks, who had waited for her late mistress
                    very near the gateway of the Court.
                “Now, Phœbe,” she said, “it is three miles from here to Mount Stanning, isn't
                    it?”
                “Yes, my lady.”
                “Then we can walk it in an hour.”
                Lady Audley had not stopped to say this: she was walking quickly along the avenue
                    with her humble companion by her side. Fragile and delicate as she was in
                    appearance, she was a very good walker. She had been in the habit of  taking long country rambles with Mr. Dawson's
                    children in her old days of dependence, and she thought very little of a
                    distance of three miles.
                “Your beautiful husband will sit up for you, I suppose, Phœbe?” she said, as they
                    struck across an open field that was used as a short cut from Audley Court to
                    the high road.
                “Oh, yes, my lady; he's sure to sit up. He'll be drinking with the man, I dare
                    say.”
                “The man! What man?”
                “The man that's in possession, my lady.”
                “Ah, to be sure,” said Lady Audley, indifferently.
                It was strange that Phœbe's domestic troubles should seem so very far away from
                    her thoughts at the time she was taking such an extraordinary step towards
                    setting things right at the Castle Inn.
                The two women crossed the field and turned into the high road. The way to Mount
                    Stanning was very hilly, and the long road looked black and dreary in the dark
                    night; but my lady walked on with a desperate courage, which was no common  constituent in her selfish, sensuous nature;
                    but a strange faculty born out of her great despair. She did not speak again to
                    her companion until they were close upon the glimmering lights at the top of the
                    hill, one of which village lights, gleaming redly through a crimson curtain,
                    marked out the particular window behind which it was likely that Luke Marks sat
                    nodding drowsily over his liquor, and waiting for the coming of his wife.
                “He has not gone to bed, Phœbe,” said my lady, eagerly. “But there is no other
                    light burning at the inn. I suppose Mr. Audley is in bed and asleep.”
                “Yes, my lady, I suppose so.”
                “You are sure he was going to stay at the Castle to-night?”
                “Oh, yes, my lady. I helped the girl to get his room ready before I came away.”
                The wind, boisterous everywhere, was even shriller and more pitiless in the
                    neighbourhood of that bleak hill-top upon which the Castle Inn reared its
                    rickety walls. The cruel blasts danced wildly round that frail erection. They
                    disported 
                        them-
                        themselves
                     selves with the shattered
                    pigeon-house, the broken weathercock, the loose tiles, and unshapely chimneys;
                    they rattled at the window-panes, and whistled in the crevices; they mocked the
                    feeble building from foundation to roof, and battered and banged and tormented
                    it in their fierce gambols, until it trembled and rocked with the force of their
                    rough play.
                Mr. Luke Marks had not troubled himself to secure the door of his dwelling-house
                    before sitting down to drink with the man who held provisional possession of his
                    goods and chattels. The landlord of the Castle Inn was a lazy, sensual brute,
                    who had no thought higher than a selfish concern for his own enjoyments, and a
                    virulent hatred for anybody who stood in the way of his gratification.
                Phœbe pushed open the door with her hand, and went into the house, followed by my
                    lady. The gas was flaring in the bar, and smoking the low, plastered ceiling.
                    The door of the bar-parlour was half open, and Lady Audley heard the brutal
                    laughter of Mr. Marks as she crossed the threshold of the inn.
                
                “I'll tell him you're here, my lady,” whispered Phœbe to her late mistress. “I
                    know he'll be tipsy. You—you won't be offended, my lady, if he should say
                    anything rude. You know it wasn't my wish that you should come.”
                “Yes, yes,” answered Lady Audley, impatiently, “I know that. What should I care
                    for his rudeness? Let him say what he likes.”
                Phœbe Marks pushed open the parlour door, leaving my lady in the bar close behind
                    her.
                Luke sat with his clumsy legs stretched out upon the hearth; with a glass of
                    gin-and-water in one hand and the poker in the other. He had just thrust the
                    poker into a great heap of black coals, and was shattering them to make a blaze,
                    when his wife appeared upon the threshold of the room.
                He snatched the poker from between the bars, and made a half-drunken,
                    half-threatening motion with it as he saw her.
                “So you've condescended to come home at last, ma'am,” he said; “I thought you was
                    never coming no more.”
                
                He spoke in a thick and drunken voice, and was by no means too intelligible. He
                    was steeped to the very lips in alcohol. His eyes were dim and watery; his hands
                    were unsteady; his voice was choked and muffled with drink. A brute, even when
                    most sober; a brute, even when on his best behaviour; he was ten times more
                    brutal in his drunkenness, when the few restraints which held his ignorant,
                    every-day brutality in check were flung aside in the insolent recklessness of
                    intoxication.
                “I—I've been longer than I intended to be, Luke,” Phœbe answered, in her most
                    conciliatory manner; “but I've seen my lady, and she's been very kind, and—and
                    she'll settle this business for us.”
                “She's been very kind, has she?” muttered Mr. Marks, with a drunken laugh; “thank
                    her for nothing. I know the vally of her kindness. She'd be oncommon kind, I
                    dessay, if she warn't obligated to be it.”
                The man in possession, who had fallen into a maudlin and semi-unconscious state
                    of 
                        intoxica-
                        intoxication
                     tion upon about a third of the liquor
                    that Mr. Marks had consumed, only stared in feeble wonderment at his host and
                    hostess. He sat near the table. Indeed, he had hooked himself on to it with his
                    elbows, as a safeguard against sliding under it, and he was making inane
                    attempts to light his pipe at the flame of a guttering tallow candle near him.
                “My lady has promised to settle the business for us,” Phœbe repeated, without
                    noticing Luke's remarks; she knew her husband's dogged nature well enough by
                    this time to know that it was worse than useless to try to stop him from doing
                    or saying anything which his own stubborn will led him to do or say; “and she's
                    come down here to see about it to-night, Luke,” she added.
                The poker dropped from the landlord's hand, and fell clattering amongst the
                    cinders on the hearth.
                “My Lady Audley come here to-night,” he said.
                “Yes, Luke.”
                My lady appeared upon the threshold of the door as Phœbe spoke.
                
                “Yes, Luke Marks,” she said, “I have come to pay this man, and to send him about
                    his business.”
                Lady Audley said these words in a strange semi-mechanical manner, very much as if
                    she had learned the sentence by rote, and were repeating it without knowing what
                    she said.
                Mr. Marks gave a discontented growl, and set his empty glass down upon the table,
                    with an impatient gesture.
                “You might have given the money to Phœbe,” he said, “as well as have brought it
                    yourself. We don't want no fine ladies up here, pryin' and pokin' their precious
                    noses into everythink.”
                “Luke, Luke,” remonstrated Phœbe, “when my lady has been so kind!”
                “Oh, damn her kindness!” cried Mr. Marks; “it ain't her kindness as we want, gal,
                    it's her money. She won't get no snivelln' gratitood from me. Whatever she does
                    for us she does because she is obliged, and if she warn't obliged she wouldn't
                    do it—”
                Heaven knows how much more Luke Marks  might
                    have said, had not my lady turned upon him suddenly, and awed him into silence
                    by the unearthly glitter of her beauty. Her hair had been blown away from her
                    face, and, being of a light, feathery quality, had spread itself into a tangled
                    mass that surrounded her forehead like a yellow flame. There was another flame
                    in her eyes—a greenish light, such as might flash from the changing hued orbs of
                    an angry mermaid.
                “Stop,” she cried. “I didn't come up here in the dead of the night to listen to
                    your insolence. How much is this debt?”
                “Nine pound.”
                Lady Audley produced her purse—a toy of ivory, silver, and turquoise—and took
                    from it a bank-note and four sovereigns. She laid these upon the table.
                “Let that man give me a receipt for the money,” she said, “before I go.”
                It was some time before the man could be roused into sufficient consciousness for
                    the performance of this simple duty, and it was only by dipping a pen into the
                    ink and pushing it 
                        be-
                        between
                     tween his clumsy fingers, that he was
                    at last made to comprehend that his autograph was wanted at the bottom of the
                    receipt which had been made out by Phœbe Marks. Lady Audley took the document as
                    soon as the ink was dry, and turned to leave the parlour. Phœbe followed her.
                “You mustn't go home alone, my lady,” she said. “You'll let me go with you?”
                “Yes, yes, you shall go home with me.”
                The two women were standing near the door of the inn as my lady said this. Phœbe
                    stared wonderingly at her patroness. She had expected that Lady Audley would be
                    in a hurry to return home after settling this business which she had
                    capriciously taken upon herself; but it was not so; my lady stood leaning
                    against the inn door and staring into vacancy, and again Mrs. Marks began to
                    fear that trouble had driven her late mistress mad.
                A little Dutch clock in the bar struck one while Lady Audley lingered in this
                    irresolute, absent manner.
                
                She started at the sound and began to tremble violently.
                “I think I am going to faint, Phœbe,” she said; “where can I get some cold
                    water?”
                “The pump is in the washhouse, my lady, I'll run and get you a glass of water.”
                “No, no, no,” cried my lady, clutching Phœbe's arm as she was about to run away
                    upon this errand, “I'll get it myself. I must dip my head in a basin of water if
                    I want to save myself from fainting. In which room does Mr. Audley sleep?”
                There was something so irrelevant in this question that Phœbe Marks stared aghast
                    at her mistress before she answered it.
                “It was number three that I got ready, my lady—the front room—the room next to
                    ours,” she replied, after that pause of astonishment.
                “Give me a candle,” said my lady; “I'll go into your room, and get some water for
                    my head. Stay where you are,” she added authoritatively, as Phœbe Marks was
                    about to show the way—“stay where you are, and see that that brute of a husband of yours doesn't follow me!”
                She snatched the candle which Phœbe had lighted, from the girl's hand; and ran up
                    the rickety, winding staircase which led to the narrow corridor upon the upper
                    floor. Five bed-rooms opened out of this low-ceilinged, close-smelling corridor:
                    the numbers of these rooms were indicated by squat black figures painted upon
                    the upper panels of the doors. Lady Audley had driven to Mount Stanning to
                    inspect the house, when she had bought the business for her servant's
                    bridegroom, and she knew her way about the dilapidated old place; she knew where
                    to find Phœbe's bedroom; but she stopped before the door of that other chamber
                    which had been prepared for Mr. Robert Audley.
                She stopped and looked at the number on the door. The key was in the lock, and
                    her hand dropped upon it as if unconsciously. Then she suddenly began to tremble
                    again, as she had trembled a few minutes before at the striking of the clock.
                    She stood for a few moments 
                        trem-
                        trembling
                     bling thus, with her hand still upon
                    the key; then a horrible expression came over her face, and she turned the key
                    in the lock; She turned it twice, double locking the door.
                There was no sound from within; the occupant of the chamber made no sign of
                    having heard that ominous creaking of the rusty key in the rusty lock.
                Lady Audley hurried into the next room. She set the candle on the dressing-table,
                    flung off her bonnet and slung it loosely across her arm; she went to the
                    wash-hand-stand and filled the basin with water. She plunged her golden hair
                    into this water, and then stood for a few moments in the centre of the room
                    looking about her, with a white earnest face, and an eager gaze that seemed to
                    take in every object in the poorly-furnished chamber. Phœbe's bedroom was
                    certainly very shabbily furnished; she had been compelled to select all the most
                    decent things for those best bedrooms which were set apart for any chance
                    traveller who might stop for a night's lodging at the Castle Inn. But Mrs. Marks
                        had done her best to atone for the lack of
                    substantial furniture in her apartment by a superabundance of drapery. Crisp
                    curtains of cheap chintz hung from the tent-bedstead; festooned drapery of the
                    same material shrouded the narrow window, shutting out the light of day, and
                    affording a pleasant harbour for tribes of flies and predatory bands of spiders.
                    Even the looking-glass, a miserably cheap construction which distorted every
                    face whose owner had the hardihood to look into it, stood upon a draperied altar
                    of starched muslin and pink glazed calico, and was adorned with frills of lace
                    and knitted work.
                My lady smiled as she looked at the festoons and furbelows which met her eye upon
                    every side. She had reason, perhaps, to smile, remembering the costly elegance
                    of her own apartments; but there was something in that sardonic smile that
                    seemed to have a deeper meaning than any natural contempt for Phœbe's poor
                    attempts at decoration. She went to the dressing-table and smoothed her wet hair
                    before the lookling-glass, and then put on her bonnet. She was obliged to place the flaming tallow candle very close to the
                    lace furbelows about the glass, so close that the starched muslin seemed to draw
                    the flame towards it by some power of attraction in its fragile tissue.
                Phœbe waited anxiously by the inn-door for my lady's coming. She watched the
                    minute hand of the little Dutch clock, wondering at the slowness of its
                    progress. It was only ten minutes past one when Lady Audley came down-stairs,
                    with her bonnet on and her hair still wet, but without the candle.
                Phœbe was immediately anxious about this missing candle.
                “The light, my lady,” she said; “you have left it up-stairs!”
                “The wind blew it out as I was leaving your room,” Lady Audley answered, quietly.
                    “I left it there.”
                “In my room, my lady?”
                “Yes.”
                “And it was quite out?”
                
                “Yes, I tell you; why do you worry me about your candle? It is past one o'clock.
                    Come.”
                She took the girl's arm, and half-led, half-dragged her from the house. The
                    convulsive pressure of her slight hand held her companion as firmly as an iron
                    vice could have held her. The fierce March wind banged-to the door of the house,
                    and left the two women standing outside it. The long black road lay bleak and
                    desolate before them, dimly visible between the leafless hedges.
                A walk of three miles' length upon a lonely country road, between the hours of
                    one and two on a cold winter's morning, is scarcely a pleasant task for a
                    delicate woman—a woman whose inclinations lean towards ease and luxury. But my
                    lady hurried along the hard dry highway, dragging her companion with her as if
                    she had been impelled by some horrible demoniac force which knew no abatement.
                    With the black night above them—with the fierce wind howling round them,
                    sweeping across a broad expanse of hidden country, blowing as if it had arisen
                        simultaneously from every point of the
                    compass, and making those wretched wanderers the focus of its ferocity—the two
                    women walked through the darkness down the hill upon which Mount Stanning stood,
                    along a mile and a half of flat road, and then up another hill, on the western
                    side of which Audley Court lay in that sheltered valley, which seemed to shut in
                    the old house from all the clamour and hubbub of the every-day world.
                My lady stopped upon the summit of this hill to draw breath and to clasp her
                    hands upon her heart, in the vain hope that she might still its cruel beating.
                    They were now within three quarters of a mile of the Court, and they had been
                    walking for nearly an hour since they had left the Castle Inn.
                Lady Audley stopped to rest with her face still turned towards the plane of her
                    destination. Phœbe Marks, stopping also, and very glad of a moment's pause in
                    that hurried journey, looked back into the far darkness beneath which lay that
                    dreary shelter which had given her so much uneasiness. And she did so, she
                    uttered a shrill cry of horror, and clutched
                    wildly at Lady Audley's cloak.
                The night sky was no longer all dark. The thick blackness was broken by one patch
                    of lurid light.
                “My lady, my lady,” cried Phœbe, pointing to this lurid patch, do you see?”
                “Yes, child, I see,” answered Lady Audley, trying to shake the clinging hands
                    from her garments. “What is the matter?”
                “It's a fire!—a fire, my lady.”
                “Yes, I'm afraid it is a fire. At Brentwood most likely. Let me go, Phœbe, it is
                    nothing to us.”
                “Yes, yes, my lady, it's nearer than Brentwood—much nearer; it's at Mount
                    Stanning.”
                Lady Audley did not answer. She was trembling again, with the cold, perhaps, for
                    the wind had torn her heavy cloak away from her shoulders, and had left her
                    slender figure exposed to the blast.
                “It's at Mount Stanning, my lady,” cried Phœbe Marks. “It's the Castle that's on
                        fire— I know it is, I know it is. I thought
                    of fire to-night, and I was fidgety and uneasy, for I knew this would happen
                    some day. I wouldn't mind if it was only the wretched place, but there'll be
                    life lost; there'll be life lost,” sobbed the girl, distractedly. “There's Luke,
                    too tipsy to help himself, unless others help him; there's Mr. Audley asleep—”
                Phœbe Marks stopped suddenly at the mention of Robert's name, and fell upon her
                    knees, clasping her uplifted hands, and appealing wildly to Lady Audley.
                “Oh, my God!” she cried. “Say it's not true, my lady; say it isn't true. It's too
                    horrible, it's too horrible, it's too horrible!”
                “What's too horrible?”
                “The thought that's in my mind; the dreadful thought that's in my mind.”
                “What do you mean, girl?” cried my lady, fiercely.
                “Oh, God forgive me if I'm wrong!” the kneeling woman gasped, in detached
                    sentences, “and God grant I may be! Why did you go up to the Castle to-night, my lady? Why were you so set
                    on going, against all I could say—you who are so bitter against Mr. Audley and
                    against Luke, and who knew they were both under that roof? Oh, tell me that I do
                    you a cruel wrong, my lady; tell me so—tell me; for as there is a Heaven above
                    me, I think that you went to that place to-night on purpose to set fire to it.
                    Tell me that I'm wrong, my lady; tell me that I'm doing you a wicked wrong.”
                “I will tell you nothing except that you are a mad woman,” answered Lady Audley,
                    in a cold, hard voice. “Get up, fool, idiot, coward! Is your husband such a
                    precious bargain that you should be grovelling there, lamenting and groaning for
                    him? What is Robert Audley to you, that you behave like a maniac, because you
                    think he is in danger? How do you know that the fire is at Mount Stanning? You
                    see a red patch in the sky, and you cry out directly that your own paltry hovel
                    is in flames; as if there were no place in the world that could burn except
                    that. The fire may be at Brentwood, or further
                    away—at Romford, or still further away; on the eastern side of London, perhaps.
                    Get up, mad woman, and go back and look after your goods and chattels, and your
                    husband and your lodger. Get up and go; I don't want you.”
                “Oh, my lady, my lady, forgive me,” sobbed Phœbe; “there's nothing you can say to
                    me that's hard enough for having done you such a wrong, even in my thoughts. I
                    don't mind your cruel words—I don't mind anything if I'm wrong.”
                “Go back and see for yourself,” answered Lady Audley, sternly. “I tell you again
                    I don't want you.”
                She walked away in the darkness, leaving Phœbe Marks still kneeling upon the hard
                    road, where she had cast herself in that agony of supplication. Sir Michael's
                    wife walked towards the house in which her husband slept, with the red blaze
                    lighting up the skies behind her, and with nothing but the blackness of the
                    night before.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER II.
                THE BEARER OF THE TIDINGS.
                IT was very late the next morning when Lady Audley emerged from her
                    dressing-room, exquisitely dressed in a morning costume of delicate muslin,
                    elaborate laces, and embroideries; but with a very pale face, and with
                    half-circles of purple shadow under her eyes. She accounted for this pale face
                    and these hollow eyes by declaring that she had sat up reading until a very late
                    hour on the previous night.
                Sir Michael and his young wife breakfasted in the library at a comfortable round
                    table, wheeled close to the blazing fire; and Alicia was compelled to share this
                    meal with her step-mother, however she might avoid that lady in the long
                    interval between breakfast and dinner.
                The March morning was bleak and dull, and a drizzling rain fell incessantly,
                    obscuring the 
                        land-
                        landscape
                     scape, and blotting out the distance.
                    There were very few letters by the morning's post; the daily newspapers did not
                    arrive until noon; and such aids to conversation being missing, there was very
                    little talk at the breakfast-table.
                Alicia looked out at the drizzling rain drifting against the broad window-panes.
                “No riding to-day,” she said; “and no chance of any callers to enliven us; unless
                    that ridiculous Bob comes crawling through the wet from Mount Stanning.”
                Have you ever heard anybody, whom you knew to be dead, alluded to in a light,
                    easy-going manner by another person who did not know of his death—alluded to as
                    doing that or this—as performing some trivial every-day operation—when
                    you know that he has vanished away from the face of this earth, and
                    separated himself forever from all living creatures and their commonplace
                    pursuits, in the awful solemnity of death? Such a chance allusion, insignificant
                    though it may be, is apt to send a strange thrill of pain through the mind. The
                    ignorant remark jars discordantly upon the
                    hyper-sensitive brain; the King of Terrors is desecrated by that unwitting
                    disrespect. Heaven knows what hidden reason my lady may have had for
                    experiencing some such revulsion of feeling on the sudden mention of Mr.
                    Audley's name; but her pale face blanched to a sickly white as Alicia Audley
                    spoke of her cousin.
                “Yes, he will come down here in the wet, perhaps,” the young lady continued,
                    “with his hat sleek and shining as if it had been brushed with a pat of fresh
                    butter; and with white vapours steaming out of his clothes, and making him look
                    like an awkward genie just let out of his bottle. He will come down here and
                    print impressions of his muddy boots all over the carpet, and he'll sit on your
                    Gobelin tapestry, my lady, in his wet overcoat; and he'll abuse you if you
                    remonstrate, and will ask why people have chairs that are not to be sat upon,
                    and why you don't live in Fig-tree-court, and—”
                Sir Michael Audley watched his daughter with a thoughtful countenance as she
                    talked of her cousin. She very often talked of
                    him, ridiculing him and inveighing against him in no very measured terms. But,
                    perhaps, the baronet thought of a certain Signora Beatrice who very cruelly
                    entreated a gentleman called Benedick, but who was, it may be, heartily in love
                    with him at the same time.
                “What do you think Major Melville told me when he called here yesterday, Alicia?”
                    Sir Michael asked, presently.
                “I haven't the remotest idea,” replied Alicia, rather disdainfully. “Perhaps he
                    told you that we should have another war before long, by Ged, sir; or, perhaps,
                    he told you that we should have a new ministry, by Ged, sir, for that those
                    fellows are getting themselves into a mess, sir; or that those other fellows
                    were reforming this, and cutting down that, and altering the other in the army,
                    until, by Ged, sir, we shall have no army at all, by-and-by—nothing but a pack
                    of boys, sir, crammed up to the eyes with a lot of senseless schoolmasters'
                    rubbish, and dressed in shell-jackets and calico helmets. Yes, sir, they're fighting in Oudh in calico helmets at this
                    very day, sir.”
                “You're an impertinent minx, miss,” answered the baronet. “Major Melville told me
                    nothing of the kind; but he told me that a very devoted admirer of yours, a
                    certain Sir Harry Towers, has forsaken his place in Hertfordshire, and his
                    hunting stable, and has gone on the continent for a twelvemonths' tour.”
                Miss Audley flushed up suddenly at the mention of her old adorer, but recovered
                    herself very quickly.
                “He has gone on the continent, has he?” she said, indifferently. “He told me that
                    he meant to do so—if—if he didn't have everything his own way. Poor fellow! he's
                    a dear, good-hearted, stupid creature, and twenty times better than that
                    peripatetic, patent refrigerator, Mr. Robert Audley.”
                “I wish, Alicia, you were not so fond of ridiculing Bob,” Sir Michael said,
                    gravely. “Bob is a very good fellow, and I'm as fond of him as if he'd been my
                    own son; and—and—I've been very uncomfortable
                    about him lately. He has changed very much within the last few days, and he has
                    taken all sorts of absurd ideas into his head, and my lady has alarmed me about
                    him. She thinks—”
                Lady Audley interrupted her husband with a grave shake of her head.
                “It is better not to say too much about it as yet awhile,” she said; “Alicia
                    knows what I think.”
                “Yes,” rejoined Miss Audley, “my lady thinks that Bob is going mad; but I know
                    better than that. He's not at all the sort of person to go mad. How should such
                    a sluggish ditchpond of an intellect as his ever work itself into a tempest? He
                    may moon about for the rest of his life, perhaps, in a tranquil state of
                    semi-idiotcy, imperfectly comprehending who he is, and where he's going, and
                    what he's doing; but he'll never go mad.”
                Sir Michael did not reply to this. He had been very much disturbed by his
                    conversation with my lady on the previous evening, and had silently debated the
                    painful question in his mind ever since.
                
                His wife—the woman he best loved and most believed in—had told him with all
                    appearance of regret and agitation, her conviction of his nephew's insanity. He
                    tried in vain to arrive at the conclusion he wished most ardently to attain; he
                    tried in vain to think that my lady was misled by her own fancies, and had no
                    foundation for what she said. But then, again, it suddenly flashed upon him, to
                    think this was to arrive at a worse conclusion; it was to transfer the horrible
                    suspicion from his nephew to his wife. She appeared to be possessed with an
                    actual conviction of Robert's insanity. To imagine her wrong was to imagine some
                    weakness in her own mind. The longer he thought of the subject the more it
                    harassed and perplexed him. It was most certain that the young man had always
                    been eccentric. He was sensible, he was tolerably clever, he was honourable and
                    gentlemanlike in feeling, though perhaps, a little careless in the performance
                    of certain minor social duties; but there were some slight differences, not
                    easily to be defined, that separated him from other men of his age and position. Then, again, it was equally true that he
                    had very much changed within the period that had succeeded the disappearance of
                    George Talboys. He had grown moody and thoughtful, melancholy and absent-minded.
                    He had held himself aloof from society; had sat for hours without speaking; had
                    talked at other times by fits and starts; and had excited himself unusually in
                    the discussion of subjects which apparently lay far out of the region of his own
                    life and interests. Then there was even another region which seemed to
                    strengthen my lady's case against this unhappy young man. He had been brought up
                    in the frequent society of his cousin, Alicia—his pretty, genial cousin—to whom
                    interest, and one would have thought affection, naturally pointed as his most
                    fitting bride. More than this, the girl had shown him, in the innocent
                    guilelessness of a transparent nature, that on her side at least, affection was
                    not wanting; and yet, in spite of all this, he had held himself aloof, and had
                    allowed other men to propose for her hand, and to be rejected by her, and had
                    still made no sign.
                
                Now love is so very subtle an essence, such an indefinable metaphysical marvel,
                    that its due force, though very cruelly felt by the sufferer himself, is never
                    clearly understood by those who look on at its torments and wonder why he takes
                    the common fever so badly. Sir Michael argued that because Alicia was a pretty
                    girl and an amiable girl it was therefore extraordinary and unnatural in Robert
                    Audley not to have duly fallen in love with her. This baronet—who, close upon
                    his sixtieth birthday, had for the first time encountered that one woman who out
                    of all the women in the world had power to quicken the pulses of his
                    heart—wondered why Robert failed to take the fever from the first breath of
                    contagion that blew towards him. He forgot that there are men who go their ways
                    unscathed amidst legions of lovely and generous women, to succumb at last before
                    some harsh-featured virago, who knows the secret of that only philter which can
                    intoxicate and bewitch him. He had forgot that there are certain Jacks who go
                    through life without meeting the Jill appointed for them by Nemesis, and die
                        old bachelors perhaps, with poor Jill
                    pining an old maid upon the other side of the party-wall. He forgot that love,
                    which is a madness, and a scourge, and a fever, and a delusion, and a snare, is
                    also a mystery, and very imperfectly understood by everyone except the
                    individual sufferer who writhes under its tortures. Jones, who is wildly
                    enamored of Miss Brown, and who lies awake at night until he loathes his
                    comfortable pillow and tumbles his sheets into two twisted rags of linen in his
                    agonies, as if he were a prisoner and wanted to wind them into impromptu ropes;
                    this same Jones, who thinks Russell-square a magic place because his divinity
                    inhabits it; who thinks the trees in that enclosure and the sky above it greener
                    and bluer than any other trees or sky; and who feels a pang, yes, an actual
                    pang, of mingled hope, and joy, and expectation, and terror when he emerges from
                    Guilford-street, descending from the heights of Islington, into those sacred
                    precincts; this very Jones is hard and callous towards the torments of Smith,
                    who adores Miss Robinson, and cannot imagine what the infatuated fellow can see
                    in the girl. So it was with Sir Michael Audley.
                    He looked at his nephew as a sample of a very large class of young men, and his
                    daughter as a sample of an equally extensive class of feminine goods; and could
                    not see why the two samples should not make a very respectable match. He ignored
                    all those infinitesimal differences in nature which make the wholesome food of
                    one man the deadly poison of another. How difficult it is to believe sometimes
                    that a man doesn't like such and such a favourite dish. If, at a dinner-party, a
                    meek-looking guest refuses early salmon and cucumber, or green peas in February,
                    we set him down as a poor relation whose instincts warn him off those expensive
                    plates. If an alderman were to declare that he didn't like green fat, he would
                    be looked upon as a social martyr, a Marcus Curtius of the dinner-table, who
                    immolated himself for the benefit of his kind. His fellow aldermen would believe
                    in anything rather than an heretical distaste for the city ambrosia of the soup
                    tureen. But there are people who dislike salmon, and whitebait, and spring
                    ducklings, and all manner of old-established
                    delicacies, and there are other people who affect eccentric and despicable
                    dishes generally stigmatized as nasty.
                Alas, my pretty Alicia, your cousin did not love you! He admired your rosy
                    English face, and had a tender affection for you which might perhaps have
                    expanded by and by into something warm enough for matrimony; that every-day
                    jog-trot species of union which demands no very passionate devotion; but for a
                    sudden check which it had received in Dorsetshire. Yes, Robert Audley's growing
                    affection for his cousin, a plant of very slow growth, I am fain to confess, had
                    been suddenly dwarfed and stunted upon that bitter February day on which he had
                    stood beneath the pine-trees talking to Clara Talboys. Since that day the young
                    man had experienced an unpleasant sensation in thinking of poor Alicia. He
                    looked at her as being in some vague manner an incumbrance upon the freedom of
                    his thoughts; he had a haunting fear that he was in some tacit way pledged to
                    her; that she had a species of claim upon him, which forbade to him the right of even thinking of another woman. I
                    believe it was the image of Miss Audley presented to him in this light that
                    goaded the young barrister into those outbursts of splenetic rage against the
                    female sex which he was liable to at certain times. He was strictly honourable,
                    so honourable that he would rather have immolated himself upon the altar of
                    truth and Alicia than have done her the remotest wrong, though by so doing he
                    might have secured his own happiness.
                “If the poor little girl loves me,” he thought, “and if she thinks that I love
                    her, and has been led to think so by any word or act of mine, I am in duty bound
                    to let her think so to the end of time, and to fulfil any tacit promise which I
                    may have unconsciously made. I thought once—I meant once to—to make her an offer
                    by and by, when this horrible mystery about George Talboys should have been
                    cleared up and everything peacefully settled—but now—”
                His thoughts would ordinarily wander away at this point of his reflections,
                    carrying him where he never had intended to go;
                    carrying him back under the pine-trees in Dorsetshire, and setting him once more
                    face to face with the sister of his missing friend, and it was generally a very
                    laborious journey by which he travelled back to the point from which he had
                    strayed. It was so difficult for him to tear himself away from the stunted turf
                    and the pine-trees.
                “Poor little girl!” he would think on coming back to Alicia. “How good it is of
                    her to love me; and how grateful I ought to be for her tenderness. How many
                    fellows would think such a generous, loving heart the highest boon that earth
                    could give them. There's Sir Harry Towers stricken with despair at his
                    rejection. He would give me half his estate, all his estate, twice his estate,
                    if he had it, to be in the shoes which I am so anxious to shake off my
                    ungrateful feet. Why don't I love her? Why is it that although I know her to be
                    pretty, and pure, and good, and truthful, I don't love her? Her image never
                    haunts me, except reproachfully. I never see her in my dreams. I never wake up
                    suddenly in the dead of the night with her eyes
                    shining upon me and her warm breath upon my cheek, or with the fingers of her
                    soft hand clinging to mine. No, I'm not in love with her; I can't
                    fall in love with her.”
                He raged and rebelled against his ingratitude. He tried to argue himself into a
                    passionate attachment for his cousin, but he failed ignominiously; and the more
                    he tried to think of Alicia the more he thought of Clara Talboys. I am speaking
                    now of his feelings in the period that elapsed between his return from
                    Dorsetshire and his visit to Grange Heath.
                Sir Michael sat by the library fire after breakfast upon this wretched rainy
                    morning, writing letters and reading the newspapers. Alicia shut herself in her
                    own apartment to read the third volume of a novel. Lady Audley locked the door
                    of the octagon ante-chamber, and roamed up and down the suite of rooms from the
                    bed-room to the boudoir all through that weary morning.
                She had locked the door to guard against the chance of any one coming in suddenly
                        and observing her before she was
                    aware—before she had had sufficient warning to enable her to face their
                    scrutiny. Her pale face seemed to grow paler as the morning advanced. A tiny
                    medicine-chest was open upon the dressing-table, and little stoppered bottles of
                    red lavender, sal-volatile, chloroform, chlorodyne, and ether were scattered
                    about. Once my lady paused before this medicine-chest, and took out the
                    remaining bottles, half absently perhaps, until she came to one which was filled
                    with a thick dark liquid, and labelled, “Opium-Poison.”
                She trifled a long time with this last bottle; holding it up to the light, and
                    even removing the stopper and smelling the sickly liquid. But she put it from
                    her suddenly with a shudder.
                “If I could!” she muttered, “if I could only do it! And yet why should I;
                        now?”
                She clenched her small hands as she uttered the last words, and walked to the
                    window of the dressing-room, which looked straight towards that ivied archway
                    under which any one must come who came from Mount Stanning to the Court.
                
                There were smaller gates in the gardens which led into the meadows behind the
                    Court; but there was no other way of coming from Mount Stanning or Brentwood
                    than by the principal entrance.
                The solitary hand of the clock over the archway was midway between one and two
                    when my lady looked at it.
                “How slow the time is,” she said, wearily; “how slow, how slow! Shall I grow old
                    like this, I wonder, with every minute of my life seeming like an hour?”
                She stood for a few minutes watching the archway; but no one passed under it
                    while she looked; and she turned impatiently away from the window to resume her
                    weary wandering about the rooms.
                Whatever fire that had been, which had reflected itself vividly in the black sky,
                    no tidings of it had as yet come to Audley Court. The day was miserably wet and
                    windy; altogether the very last day upon which even the most confirmed idler and
                    gossip would care to venture out. It was not a market-day, and there were
                    therefore very few passengers upon the road between Brentwood and Chelmsford; so that as yet no news of the fire, which
                    had occurred in the dead of the wintry night, had reached the village of Audley,
                    or travelled from the village to the Court.
                The girl with the rose-coloured ribbons came to the door of the ante-room to
                    summon her mistress to luncheon; but Lady Audley only opened the door a little
                    way, and intimated her intention of taking no luncheon.
                “My head aches terribly, Martin,” she said; “I shall go and lie down till dinner
                    time. You may come at five to dress me.”
                Lady Audley said this with the predetermination of dressing at four, and thus
                    dispensing with the services of her attendant. Amongst all privileged spies, a
                    lady's-maid has the highest privileges. It is she who bathes Lady Theresa's eyes
                    with eau-de-cologne after her ladyship's quarrel with the colonel; it is she who
                    administers sal-volatile to Miss Fanny when Count Beaudesert, of the Blues, has
                    jilted her. She has a hundred methods for the finding out of her mistress'
                    secrets. She knows by the manner in which her victim jerks her head from under the hair-brush, or chafes at the
                    gentlest administration of the comb, what hidden tortures are racking her
                    breast—what secret perplexities are bewildering her brain. That well-bred
                    attendant knows how to interpret the most obscure diagnosis of all mental
                    diseases that can afflict her mistress; she knows when the ivory complexion is
                    bought and paid for—when the pearly teeth are foreign substances fashioned by
                    the dentist—when the glossy plaits are the relics of the dead, rather than the
                    property of the living; and she knows other and more sacred secrets than these.
                    She knows when the sweet smile is more false than Madame Levison's enamel, and
                    far less enduring—when the words that issue from between gates of borrowed pearl
                    are more disguised and painted than the lips which help to shape them. When the
                    lovely fairy of the ball-room re-enters her dressing-room after the night's long
                    revelry, and throws aside her voluminous Burnous and her faded bouquet, and
                    drops her mask; and like another Cinderella loses the glass-slipper, by whose
                        glitter she has been distinguished, and
                    falls back into her rags and dirt; the lady's-maid is by to see the
                    transformation. The valet who took wages from the prophet of Korazin, must have
                    seen his master sometimes unveiled; and must have laughed in his sleeve at the
                    folly of the monster's worshippers.
                Lady Audley had made no confidante of her new
                    maid, and on this day of all others she wished to be alone.
                She did lie down, she cast herself wearily upon the luxurious sofa in the
                    dressing-room, and buried her face in the down pillows and tried to sleep.
                    Sleep!—she had almost forgotten what it was, that tender restorer of tired
                    nature, it seemed so long now since she had slept. It was only about
                    eight-and-forty hours, perhaps, but it appeared an intolerable time. Her fatigue
                    of the night before, and her unnatural excitement, had worn her out at last. She
                    did fall asleep; she fell into a heavy slumber that was almost like stupor. She
                    had taken a few drops out of the opium bottle in a glass of water before lying
                    down.
                
                The clock over the mantelpiece chimed the quarter before four as she woke
                    suddenly and started up, with the cold perspiration breaking out in icy drops
                    upon her forehead. She had dreamt that every member of the household was
                    clamouring at the door, eager to tell her of a dreadful fire that had happened
                    in the night.
                There was no sound but the flapping of the ivy leaves against the glass, the
                    occasional falling of a cinder, and the steady ticking of the clock.
                “Perhaps I shall be always dreaming these sort of dreams,” my lady thought,
                    “until the terror of them kills me!”
                The rain had ceased, and the cold spring sunshine was glittering upon the
                    windows. Lady Audley dressed herself rapidly but carefully. I do not say that
                    even in her supremest hour of misery she still retained her pride in her beauty.
                    It was not so; she looked upon that beauty as a weapon, and she felt that she
                    had now double need to be well armed. She dressed herself in her most gorgeous
                    silk; a voluminous robe of silvery, shimmering blue, that made her look as if she had been arrayed in moonbeams. She
                    shook out her hair into feathery showers of glittering gold; and with a cloak of
                    white cashmere about her shoulders, went down-stairs into the vestibule.
                She opened the door of the library and looked in. Sir Michael Audley was asleep
                    in his easy chair. As my lady softly closed this door Alicia descended the
                    stairs from her own room. The turret door was open, and the sun was shining upon
                    the wet grass-plat in the quadrangle. The firm gravel-walks were already very
                    nearly dry, for the rain had ceased for upwards of two hours.
                “Will you take a walk with me in the quadrangle?” Lady Audley asked, as her
                    step-daughter approached. The armed neutrality between the two women admitted of
                    any chance civility such as this.
                “Yes, if you please, my lady,” Alicia answered, rather listlessly. “I have been
                    yawning over a stupid novel all the morning, and shall be very glad of a little
                    fresh air.”
                Heaven help the novelist whose fiction Miss Audley had been perusing, if he had
                    no better critics than that young lady. She had
                    read page after page without knowing what she had been reading; and had flung
                    aside the volume half-a-dozen times to go to the window and watch for that
                    visitor whom she had so confidently expected.
                Lady Audley led the way through the low door-way and on to the smooth gravel
                    drive, by which carriages approached the house. She was still very pale, but the
                    brightness of her dress and of her feathery golden ringlets distracted an
                    observer's eyes from her pallid face. All mental distress is, with some show of
                    reason, associated in our minds with loose, disordered garments, and dishevelled
                    hair, and an appearance in every way the reverse of my lady's. Why had she come
                    out into the chill sunshine of the March afternoon to wander up and down that
                    monotonous pathway with the step-daughter she hated? She came because she was
                    under the dominion of a horrible restlessness, which would not suffer her to
                    remain within the house waiting for certain tidings which she knew must too
                    surely come. At first she had wished to ward
                    them off—at first she had wished that strange convulsions of nature might arise
                    to hinder their coming—that abnormal winter lightnings might wither and destroy
                    the messenger who carried them—that the ground might tremble and yawn beneath
                    his hastening feet, and that impassable gulfs might separate the spot from which
                    the tidings were to come, and the place to which they were to be carried. She
                    wished that the earth might stand still, and the paralysed elements cease from
                    their natural functions; that the progress of time might stop; that the Day of
                    Judgment might come, and that she might thus be brought before an unearthly
                    tribunal, and so escape the intervening shame and misery of any earthly
                    judgment. In the wild chaos of her brain, every one of these thoughts had held
                    its place, and in her short slumber on the sofa in her dressing-room, she had
                    dreamed all these things and a hundred other things, all bearing upon the same
                    subject. She had dreamed that a brook, a tiny streamlet when she first saw it,
                    flowed across the road between Mount Stanning
                    and Audley, and gradually swelled into a river, and from a river became an
                    ocean, till the village on the hill receded far away out of sight and only a
                    great waste of waters rolled where it once had been. She dreamt that she saw the
                    messenger; now one person, now another, but never any probable person; hindered
                    by a hundred hinderances; now startling and terrible; now ridiculous and
                    trivial; but never either natural or probable; and going down into the quiet
                    house with the memory of these dreams strong upon her, she had been bewildered
                    by the stillness which had betokened that the tidings had not yet come.
                And now her mind underwent a complete change. She no longer wished to delay the
                    dreaded intelligence. She wished the agony, whatever it was to be, over and done
                    with, the pain suffered, and the release attained. It seemed to her as if the
                    intolerable day would never come to an end, as if her mad wishes had been
                    granted, and the progress of time had actually stopped.
                
                “What a long day it has been!” exclaimed Alicia, as if taking up the burden of my
                    lady's thoughts; “nothing but drizzle and mist and wind! And now that it's too
                    late for anybody to go out, it must needs be fine,” the young lady added, with
                    an evident sense of injury.
                Lady Audley did not answer. She was looking at the stupid one-handed clock; and
                    waiting for the news which must come sooner or later; which could not surely
                    fail to come very speedily.
                “They have been afraid to come and tell him,” she thought; “they have been afraid
                    to break the news to Sir Michael. Who will come to tell it, at last, I wonder?
                    The rector of Mount Stanning, perhaps; or the doctor; some important person, at
                    least.”
                If she could have gone out into the leafless avenues, or on to the high road
                    beyond them; if she could have gone so far as that hill upon which she had so
                    lately parted with Phœbe, she would have gladly done so. She would rather have
                    suffered anything than that slow suspense, that corroding anxiety, that
                    metaphysical dry-rot in which heart and mind
                    seemed to decay under an insufferable torture. She tried to talk; and by a
                    painful effort contrived now and then to utter some commonplace remark. Under
                    any ordinary circumstances her companion would have noticed her embarrassment;
                    but Miss Audley, happening to be very much absorbed by her own vexations, was
                    quite as well inclined to be silent as my lady herself. The monotonous walk up
                    and down the gravelled pathway suited Alicia's humour. I think that she even
                    took a malicious pleasure in the idea that she was very likely catching cold;
                    and that her Cousin Robert was answerable for her danger. If she could have
                    brought upon herself inflammation of the lungs, or ruptured blood-vessels, by
                    that exposure to the chill March atmosphere, I think she would have felt a
                    gloomy satisfaction in her sufferings.
                “Perhaps Robert might care for me, if I had inflammation of the lungs,” she
                    thought. “He couldn't insult me by calling me a Bouncer then. Bouncers don't
                    have inflammation of the lungs.”
                
                I believe she drew a picture of herself in the last stage of consumption, propped
                    up by pillows in a great easy-chair, looking out of a window in the afternoon
                    sunshine, with medicine bottles, a bunch of grapes and a Bible upon a table by
                    her side; and with Robert, all contrition and tenderness, summoned to receive
                    her farewell blessing. She preached a whole chapter to him in that parting
                    benediction, talking a great deal longer than was in keeping with her prostrate
                    state, and very much enjoying her dismal castle in the air. Employed in this
                    sentimental manner, Miss Audley took very little notice of her step-mother, and
                    the one hand of the blundering clock had slipped to six by the time Robert had
                    been blessed and dismissed.
                “Good gracious me,” she cried, suddenly—“six o'clock, and I'm not dressed.”
                The half-hour bell rung in a cupola upon the roof while Alicia was speaking.
                “I must go in, my lady,” she said. “Won't you come?”
                “Presently,” answered Lady Audley. “I'm dressed, you see.”
                
                Alicia ran off, but Sir Michael's wife still lingered in the quadrangle; still
                    waited for those tidings which were so long coming.
                It was nearly dark. The blue mists of evening had slowly risen from the ground.
                    The flat meadows were filled with a grey vapour, and a stranger might have
                    fancied Audley Court a castle on the margin of a sea. Under the archway the
                    shadows of fast-coming night lurked darkly; like traitors waiting for an
                    opportunity to glide stealthily into the quadrangle. Through the archway a patch
                    of cold blue sky glimmered faintly, streaked by one line of lurid crimson, and
                    lighted by the dim glitter of one wintry-looking star. Not a creature was
                    stirring in the quadrangle but the restless woman, who paced up and down the
                    straight pathways, listening for a footstep, whose coming was to strike terror
                    to her soul. She heard it at last!—a footstep in the avenue upon the other side
                    of the archway. But was it the footstep? Her sense of hearing, made
                    unnaturally acute by excitement, told her that it was a man's footstep—told even more, that it was the tread of a
                    gentleman; no slouching, lumbering pedestrian in hobnailed boots; but a
                    gentleman who walked firmly and well.
                Every sound fell like a lump of ice upon my lady's heart. She could not wait, she
                    could not contain herself; she lost all self-control, all power of endurance,
                    all capability of self-restraint; and she rushed towards the archway.
                She paused beneath its shadow, for the stranger was close upon her. She saw him:
                    O God! she saw him, in that dim evening light. Her brain reeled; her heart
                    stopped beating. She uttered no cry of surprise, no exclamation of terror, but
                    staggered backwards and clung for support to the ivied buttress of the archway.
                    With her slender figure crouched into the angle formed by the buttress and the
                    wall which it supported, she stood staring at the new-comer.
                As he approached her more closely her knees sank under her, and she dropped to
                    the ground; not fainting, or in any manner unconscious; but sinking into a
                    crouching attitude, and still crushed into the
                    angle of the wall; as if she would have made a tomb for herself in the shadow of
                    that sheltering brickwork.
                “My lady!”
                The speaker was Robert Audley. He whose bed-room door she had double-locked
                    seventeen hours before at the Castle Inn.
                “What is the matter with you?” he said, in a strange, constrained manner. “Get
                    up, and let me take you in-doors.”
                He assisted her to rise; and she obeyed him, very submissively. He took her arm
                    in his strong hand and led her across the quadrangle and into the lamp-lit hall.
                    She shivered more violently than he had ever seen any woman shiver before; but
                    she made no attempt at resistance to his will.
            
            
            
                
                CHAPTER III.
                MY LADY TELLS THE TRUTH.
                “IS there any room in which I can talk to you alone?” Robert Audley
                    asked, as he looked dubiously round the hall.
                My lady only bowed her head in answer. She pushed open the door of the library,
                    which had been left ajar. Sir Michael had gone to his dressing-room to prepare
                    for dinner after a day of lazy enjoyment; perfectly legitimate for an invalid.
                    The apartment was quite empty, and only lighted by the blaze of the fire, as it
                    had been upon the previous evening.
                Lady Audley entered this room, followed by Robert, who closed the door behind
                    him. The wretched, shivering woman went to the fire-place and knelt down before
                    the blaze, as if any natural warmth could have power to check that unnatural
                    chill. The young man followed her, and stood
                    beside her upon the hearth, with his arm resting upon the chimney-piece.
                “Lady Audley,” he said, in a voice whose icy sternness held out no hope of any
                    tenderness or compassion, “I spoke to you last night very plainly; but you
                    refused to listen to me. To-night I must speak to you still more plainly; and
                    you must no longer refuse to listen to me.”
                My lady, crouching before the fire with her face hidden in her hands, uttered a
                    low sobbing sound which was almost a moan, but made no other answer.
                “There was a fire last night at Mount Stanning, Lady Audley,” the pitiless voice
                    proceeded; “the Castle Inn, the house in which I slept, was burned to the
                    ground. Do you know how I escaped perishing in that destruction?”
                “No.”
                “I escaped by a most providential circumstance, which seems a very simple one. I
                    did not sleep in the room which had been prepared for me. The place seemed
                    wretchedly damp and chilly; the chimney smoked abominably when an attempt was made at lighting a fire; and I persuaded
                    the servant to make me up a bed upon the sofa in the small ground-floor
                    sitting-room which I had occupied during the evening.”
                He paused for a moment, watching the crouching figure. The only change in my
                    lady's attitude was that her head had fallen a little lower.
                “Shall I tell you by whose agency the destruction of the Castle Inn was brought
                    about, my lady?”
                There was no answer.
                “Shall I tell you?”
                Still the same obstinate silence.
                “My Lady Audley,” cried Robert, suddenly, “you were the incendiary.
                    It was you whose murderous hand kindled those flames. It was you who thought by
                    that thrice-horrible deed to rid yourself of me, your enemy and denouncer. What
                    was it to you that other lives might be sacrificed? If by a second massacre of
                    Saint Bartholomew you could have ridded yourself of me, you would
                    have freely sacrificed an army of victims. The day is past for tenderness and mercy. For you I can no longer know pity or
                    compunction. So far as by sparing your shame I can spare others who must suffer
                    by your shame, I will be merciful; but no further. If there were any secret
                    tribunal before which you might be made to answer for your crimes, I would have
                    little scruple in being your accuser: but I would spare that generous and
                    high-born gentleman upon whose noble name your infamy would be reflected.”
                His voice softened as he made this allusion, and for a moment he broke down, but
                    he recovered himself by an effort and continued—
                “No life was lost in the fire of last night. I slept lightly, my lady, for my
                    mind was troubled, as it has been for a long time, by the misery which I knew
                    was lowering upon this house. It was I who discovered the breaking out of the
                    fire in time to give the alarm and to save the servant girl and the poor drunken
                    wretch, who was very much burnt in spite of my efforts, and who now lies in a
                    precarious state at his mother's cottage. It was from him and from his wife that
                    I learned who had visited the Castle Inn in the
                    dead of the night. The woman was almost distracted when she saw me, and from her
                    I discovered the particulars of last night. Heaven knows what other secrets of
                    yours she may hold, my lady, or how easily they might be extorted from her if I
                    wanted her aid, which I do not. My path lies very straight before me. I have
                    sworn to bring the murderer of George Talboys to justice: and I will keep my
                    oath. I say that it was by your agency my friend met with his death. If I have
                    wondered sometimes, as it was only natural I should, whether I was not the
                    victim of some horrible hallucination; whether such an alternative was not more
                    probable than that a young and lovely woman should be capable of so foul and
                    treacherous a murder, all wonder is past. After last night's deed of horror,
                    there is no crime you could commit, however vast and unnatural, which could make
                    me wonder. Henceforth you must seem to me no longer a woman; a guilty woman with
                    a heart which in its worst wickedness has yet some latent power to suffer and
                    feel; I look upon you henceforth as the
                    demoniac incarnation of some evil principle. But you shall no longer pollute
                    this place by your presence. Unless you will confess what you are, and who you
                    are, in the presence of the man you have deceived so long; and accept from him
                    and from me such mercy as we may be inclined to extend to you; I will gather
                    together the witnesses who shall swear to your identity, and at peril of any
                    shame to myself and those I love, I will bring upon you the punishment of your
                    crime.”
                The woman rose suddenly and stood before him erect and resolute; with her hair
                    dashed away from her face and her eyes glittering.
                “Bring Sir Michael!” she cried; “bring him here, and I will confess
                    anything—everything! What do I care? God knows I have struggled hard enough
                    against you, and fought the battle patiently enough; but you have conquered, Mr.
                    Robert Audley. It is a great triumph, is it not? a wonderful victory! You have
                    used your cool, calculating, frigid, luminous intellect to a noble purpose. You
                    have conquered—a MADWOMAN!”
                
                “A madwoman!” cried Mr. Audley.
                “Yes, a madwoman. When you say that I killed George Talboys, you say the truth.
                    When you say that I murdered him treacherously and foully, you lie. I killed him
                    because I AM MAD! because my intellect is a little way upon the
                    wrong side of that narrow boundary-line between sanity and insanity; because
                    when George Talboys goaded me, as you have goaded me; and reproached me, and
                    threatened me; my mind, never properly balanced, utterly lost its balance; and
                        I was mad! Bring Sir Michael; and bring him quickly. If he is
                    to be told one thing, let him be told everything; let him hear the secret of my
                    life!”
                Robert Audley left the room to look for his uncle. He went in search of that
                    honoured kinsman with God knows how heavy a weight of anguish at his heart, for
                    he knew he was about to shatter the day-dream of his uncle's life; and he knew
                    that our dreams are none the less terrible to lose, because they have never been
                    the realities for which we have mistaken them. But even in the midst of his sorrow for Sir Michael, he could not
                    help wondering at my lady's last words—“the secret of my life.” He remembered
                    those lines in the letter written by Helen Talboys upon the eve of her flight
                    from Wildernsea, which had so puzzled him. He remembered those appealing
                    sentences—“You should forgive me, for you know why I have been so.
                    You know the secret of my life.”
                He met Sir Michael in the hall. He made no attempt to preare the way for the
                    terrible revelation which the baronet was to hear. He only drew him into the
                    fire-lit library, and there for the first time addressed him quietly thus:—
                “Lady Audley has a confession to make to you, sir—a confession which I know will
                    be a most cruel surprise, a most bitter grief. But it is necessary for your
                    present honour, and for your future peace, that you should hear it. She has
                    deceived you, I regret to say, most basely; but it is only right that you should
                    hear from her own lips any excuses which she may have to offer for her
                    wickedness. May God soften this blow for you,”
                    sobbed the young man, suddenly breaking down; “I cannot!”
                Sir Michael lifted his hand as if he would command his nephew to be silent; but
                    that imperious hand dropped feeble and impotent at his side. He stood in the
                    centre of the fire-lit room, rigid and immovable.
                “Lucy!” he cried, in a voice whose anguish struck like a blow upon the jarred
                    nerves of those who heard it, as the cry of a wounded animal pains the
                    listener—“Lucy! tell me that this man is a madman! tell me so, my love, or I
                    shall kill him!”
                There was a sudden fury in his voice as he turned upon Robert, as if he could
                    indeed have felled his wife's accuser to the earth with the strength of his
                    uplifted arm.
                But my lady fell upon her knees at his feet; interposing herself between the
                    baronet and his nephew, who stood leaning upon the back of an easy chair, with
                    his face hidden by his hand.
                “He has told you the truth,” said my lady, “and
                    he is not mad! I have sent for you that I may confess everything to you. I
                    should be sorry for you if I could; for you have been very, very good to me;
                    much bettter to me than I ever deserved; but I can't, I can't—I can feel nothing
                    but my own misery. I told you long ago that I was selfish; I am selfish
                    still—more selfish than ever in my misery. Happy, prosperous people may feel for
                    others. I laugh at other people's sufferings; they seem so small compared to my
                    own.”
                When first my lady had fallen on her knees, Sir Michael had attempted to raise
                    her, and had remonstrated with her; but as she spoke he dropped into a chair
                    close to the spot upon which she knelt, and with his hands clasped together, and
                    with his head bent to catch every syllable of those horrible words, he listened
                    as if his whole being had been resolved into that one sense of hearing.
                “I must tell you the story of my life; in order to tell you why I have become the
                    miserable wretch who has no better hope than to be allowed to run away and hide in some desolate corner of the
                    earth. I must tell you the story of my life,” repeated my lady, “but you need
                    not fear that I shall dwell long upon it. It has not been so pleasant to me that
                    I should wish to remember it. When I was a very little child I remember asking a
                    question which it was natural enough that I should ask, God help me! I asked
                    where my mother was. I had a faint remembrance of a face, like what my own is
                    now, looking at me when I was very little better than a baby; but I had missed
                    the face suddenly, and had never seen it since. They told me that my mother was
                    away. I was not happy, for the woman who had charge of me was a disagreeable
                    woman, and the place in which we lived was a lonely place, a village upon the
                    Hampshire coast, about seven miles from Portsmouth. My father, who was in the
                    navy, only came now and then to see me; and I was left almost entirely to the
                    charge of this woman, who was irregularly paid; and who vented her rage upon me
                    when my father was behindhand in remitting her money. So you see that at a very early age I found out what it was to be
                    poor.
                “Perhaps it was more from being discontented with my dreary life than from any
                    wonderful impulse of affection, that I asked very often the same question about
                    my mother. I always received the same answer—she was away. When I asked where, I
                    was told that that was a secret. When I grew old enough to understand the
                    meaning of the word death, I asked if my mother was dead, and I was told—‘No,
                    she was not dead; she was ill, and she was away.’ I asked how long she had been
                    ill, and I was told that she had been so some years; ever since I was a baby.
                “At last the secret came out. I worried my foster-mother with the old question
                    one day when the remittances had fallen very much in arrear, and her temper had
                    been unusually tried. She flew into a passion; and told me that my mother was a
                    madwoman; and that she was in a madhouse forty miles away. She had scarcely said
                    this when she repented, and told me that it was
                    not the truth, and that I was not to believe it, or to say that she had told me
                    such a thing. I discovered afterwards that my father had made her promise most
                    solemnly never to tell me the secret of my mother's fate.
                “I brooded horribly upon the thought of my mother's madness. It haunted me by day
                    and night. I was always picturing to myself this mad woman pacing up and down
                    some prison cell, in a hideous garment that bound her tortured limbs. I had
                    exaggerated ideas of the horror of her situation. I had no knowledge of the
                    different degrees of madness; and the image that haunted me was that of a
                    distraught and violent creature, who would fall upon me and kill me if I came
                    within her reach. This idea grew upon me until I used to awake in the dead of
                    the night, screaming aloud in an agony of terror, from a dream in which I had
                    felt my mother's icy grasp upon my throat, and heard her ravings in my ear.
                “When I was ten years old my father came to pay up the arrears due to my
                    protectress, and to take me to school. He had
                    left me in Hampshire longer than he had intended, from his inability to pay this
                    money. So there again I felt the bitterness of poverty, and ran the risk of
                    growing up an ignorant creature amongst coarse rustic children, because my
                    father was poor.”
                My lady paused for a moment, but only to take breath, for she had spoken rapidly,
                    as if eager to tell this hated story, and to have done with it. She was still on
                    her knees, but Sir Michael made no effort to raise her.
                He sat silent and immovable. What was this story that he was listening to? Whose
                    was it, and to what was it to lead? It could not be his wife's; he had heard her
                    simple account of her youth, and had believed it as he had believed in the
                    Gospel. She had told him a very brief story of an early orphanage, and a long
                    quiet, colourless youth spent in the conventional seclusion of an English
                    boarding-school.
                “My father came at last, and I told him what I had discovered. He was very much
                    affected when I spoke of my mother. He was not what the world generally calls a good man, but I learned
                    afterwards that he had loved his wife very dearly; and that he would have
                    willingly sacrificed his life to her, and constituted himself her guardian, had
                    he not been compelled to earn the daily bread of the madwoman and her child by
                    the exercise of his profession. So here again I beheld what a bitter thing it is
                    to be poor. My mother, who might have been tended by a devoted husband, was
                    given over to the care of hired nurses.
                “Before my father sent me to school at Torquay, he took me to see my mother. This
                    visit served at least to dispel the idea which had so often terrified me. I saw
                    no raving, straight-waistcoated maniac, guarded by zealous gaolers; but a
                    golden-haired, blue-eyed, girlish creature, who seemed as frivolous as a
                    butterfly, and who skipped towards us with her yellow curls decorated with
                    natural flowers, and saluted us with radiant smiles, and gay, ceaseless chatter.
                “But she didn't know us. She would have spoken in the same manner to any stranger
                        who had entered the gates of the garden
                    about her prison-house. Her madness was an hereditary disease transmitted to her
                    from her mother, who had died mad. She, my mother, had been, or had appeared
                    sane up to the hour of my birth; but from that hour her intellect had decayed,
                    until she had become what I saw her.
                “I went away with the knowledge of this, and with the knowledge that the only
                    inheritance I had to expect from my mother was—insanity!
                “I went away with this knowledge in my mind, and with something more—a secret to
                    keep. I was only a child of ten years old; but I felt all the weight of that
                    burden. I was to keep the secret of my mother's madness; for it was a secret
                    that might affect me injuriously in after-life. I was to remember this.
                “I did remember this; and it was, perhaps, this that made me selfish and
                    heartless; for I suppose I am heartless. As I grew older I was told that I was
                    pretty—beautiful—lovely—bewitching. I heard all these things at first
                    indifferently; but by-and-by I listened to them
                    greedily, and began to think that in spite of the secret of my life I might be
                    more successful in the world's great lottery than my companions. I had learnt
                    that which in some indefinite manner or other every school-girl learns sooner or
                    later—I learned that my ultimate fate in life depended upon my marriage, and I
                    concluded that if I was indeed prettier than my schoolfellows, I ought to marry
                    better than any of them.
                “I left school before I was seventeen years of age with this thought in my mind;
                    and I went to live at the other extremity of England with my father, who had
                    retired upon his half-pay, and had established himself at Wildernsea, with the
                    idea that the place was cheap and select.
                “The place was indeed select. I had not been there a month before I discovered
                    that even the prettiest girl might wait a long time for a rich husband. I wish
                    to hurry over this part of my life: I daresay I was very despicable. You and
                    your nephew, Sir Michael, have been rich all your lives, and can very well
                    afford to despise me; but I knew how far poverty can affect a life, and I looked forward with a sick terror to a life so
                    affected. At last the rich suitor—the wandering prince came.”
                She paused for a moment, and shuddered convulsively. It was impossible to see any
                    of the changes of her countenance, for her face was obstinately bent towards the
                    floor. Throughout her long confession she never lifted it; throughout her long
                    confession her voice was never broken by a tear. What she had to tell she told
                    in a cold, hard tone; very much the tone in which some criminal, dogged and
                    sullen to the last, might have confessed to a gaol chaplain.
                “The wandering prince came,” she repeated; “he was called George Talboys.”
                For the first time since his wife's confession had begun, Sir Michael Audley
                    started. He began to understand it all now. A crowd of unheeded words and
                    forgotten circumstances that had seemed too insignificant for remark or
                    recollection, flashed back upon him as vividly as if they had been the leading
                    incidents of his past life.
                “Mr. George Talboys was a cornet in a 
                        dra-
                        dragoon
                     goon regiment. He was the only son of
                    a rich country gentleman. He fell in love with me, and married me three months
                    after my seventeenth birthday. I think I loved him as much as it was in my power
                    to love anybody; not more than I have loved you, Sir Michael; not so much; for
                    when you married me you elevated me to a position that he could never have given
                    me.”
                The dream was broken. Sir Michael Audley remembered that summer's evening, nearly
                    two years ago, when he had first declared his love for Mr. Dawson's governess;
                    he remembered the sick, half-shuddering sensation of regret and disappointment
                    that had come over him then; and he felt as if it had in some manner dimly
                    foreshadowed the agony of to-night.
                But I do not believe that even in his misery he felt that entire and unmitigated
                    surprise, that utter revulsion of feeling that is felt when a good woman wanders
                    away from herself, and becomes the lost creature whom her husband is bound in
                    honour to abjure. I do not believe that Sir Michael Audley had ever
                    really believed in his wife. He
                    had loved her and admired her; he had been bewitched by her beauty and
                    bewildered by her charms; but that sense of something wanting, that vague
                    feeling of loss and disappointment which had come upon him on the summer's night
                    of his betrothal, had been with him more or less distinctly ever since. I cannot
                    believe that an honest man, however pure and single may be his mind, however
                    simply trustful his nature, is ever really deceived by falsehood. There is
                    beneath the voluntary confidence an involuntary distrust; not to be conquered by
                    any effort of the will.
                “We were married,” my lady continued, “and I loved him very well, quite well
                    enough to be happy with him as long as his money lasted, and while we were on
                    the Continent, travelling in the best style and always staying at the best
                    hotels. But when we came back to Wildernsea and lived with papa, and all the
                    money was gone, and George grew gloomy and wretched, and was always thinking of
                    his troubles, and appeared to neglect me, I was very unhappy; and it seemed
                        as if this fine marriage had only given me
                    a twelve-month's gaiety and extravagance after all. I begged George to appeal to
                    his father; but he refused. I persuaded him to try and get employment; and he
                    failed. My baby was born, and the crisis which had been fatal to my mother arose
                    for me. I escaped; but I was more irritable perhaps after my recovery; less
                    inclined to fight the hard battle of the world; more disposed to complain of
                    poverty and neglect. I did complain one day, loudly and bitterly. I upbraided
                    George Talboys for his cruelty in having allied a helpless girl to poverty and
                    misery; and he flew into a passion with me and ran out of the house. When I
                    awoke the next morning I found a letter lying on the table by my bed, telling me
                    that he was going to the Antipodes to seek his fortune, and that he would never
                    see me again until he was a rich man.
                “I looked upon this as a desertion, and I resented it bitterly—I resented it by
                    hating the man who had left me with no protector but a weak, tipsy father, and
                    with a child to support. I had to work hard for
                    my living, and in every hour of labour—and what labour is more wearisome than
                    the dull slavery of a governess?—I recognised a separate wrong done me by George
                    Talboys. His father was rich; his sister was living in luxury and
                    respectability; and I, his wife, and the mother of his son, was a slave allied
                    for ever to beggary and obscurity. People pitied me; and I hated them for their
                    pity. I did not love the child; for he had been left a burden upon my hands. The
                    hereditary taint that was in my blood had never until this time showed itself by
                    any one sign or token; but at this time I became subject to fits of violence and
                    despair. At this time I think my mind first lost its balance, and for the first
                    time I crossed that invisible line which separates reason from madness. I have
                    seen my father's eyes fixed upon me in horror and alarm. I have known him soothe
                    me as only mad people and children are soothed, and I have chafed against his
                    petty devices, I have resented even his indulgence.
                “At last these fits of desperation resolved
                    themselves into a desperate purpose. I determined to run away from this wretched
                    home which my slavery supported. I determined to desert this father who had more
                    fear of me than love for me. I determined to go to London, and lose myself in
                    that great chaos of humanity.
                “I had seen an advertisement in the Times while I was at
                    Wildernsea, and I presented myself to Mrs. Vincent, the advertiser, under a
                    feigned name. She accepted me, waiving all question as to my antecedents. You
                    know the rest. I came here, and you made me an offer, the acceptance of which
                    would lift me at once into the sphere to which my ambition had pointed ever
                    since I was a school-girl, and heard for the first time that I was pretty.
                “Three years had passed, and I had received no token of my husband's existence;
                    for, I argued, that if he had returned to England, he would have succeeded in
                    finding me under any name and in any place. I knew the energy of his character
                    well enough to know this.
                “I said, ‘I have a right to think that he is
                    dead, or that he wishes me to believe him dead, and his shadow shall not stand
                    between me and prosperity.’ I said this, and I became your wife, Sir Michael,
                    with every resolution to be as good a wife as it was in my nature to be. The
                    common temptations that assail and shipwreck some women had no terror for me. I
                    would have been your true and pure wife to the end of time, though I had been
                    surrounded by a legion of tempters. The mad folly that the world calls love had
                    never had any part in my madness; and here at least extremes met, and the vice
                    of heartlessness became the virtue of constancy.
                “I was very happy in the first triumph and grandeur of my new position, very
                    grateful to the hand that had lifted me to it. In the sunshine of my own
                    happiness I felt, for the first time in my life, for the miseries of others. I
                    had been poor myself, and I was now rich, and could afford to pity and relieve
                    the poverty of my neighbours. I took pleasure in acts of kindness and
                    benevolence. I found out my father's address 
                        aud
                        and
                     sent him large sums of money,
                    anonymously, for I did not wish him to discover what had become of me. I availed
                    myself to the full of the privilege your generosity afforded me. I dispensed
                    happiness on every side. I saw myself loved as well as admired; and I think I
                    might have been a good woman for the rest of my life, if fate would have allowed
                    me to be so.
                “I believe that at this time my mind regained its just balance. I had watched
                    myself very closely since leaving Wildernsea; I had held a check upon myself. I
                    had often wondered, while sitting in the surgeon's quiet family circle, whether
                    any suspicion of that invisible hereditary taint had ever occurred to Mr.
                    Dawson.
                “Fate would not suffer me to be good. My destiny compelled me to be a wretch.
                    Within a month of my marriage, I read in one of the Essex papers of the return
                    of a certain Mr. Talboys, a fortunate gold-seeker, from Australia. The ship had
                    sailed at the time I read the paragraph. What was to be done?
                “I said just now that I knew the energy of
                    George's character. I knew that the man who had gone to the antipodes, and won a
                    fortune for his wife, would leave no stone unturned in his efforts to find her.
                    It was hopeless to think of hiding myself from him.
                “Unless he could be induced to believe that I was dead, he would never cease in
                    his search for me.
                “My brain was dazed as I thought of my peril. Again the balance trembled; again
                    the invisible boundary was passed; again I was mad.
                “I went down to Southampton and found my father, who was living there with my
                    child. You remember how Mrs. Vincent's name was used as an excuse for this
                    hurried journey, and how it was contrived I should go with no other escort than
                    Phœbe Marks, whom I left at the hotel while I went to my father's house.
                “I confided to my father the whole secret of my peril. He was not very much
                    shocked at what I had done, for poverty had perhaps blunted his sense of honour
                    and principle. He was not very much shocked;
                    but he was frightened; and he promised to do all in his power to assist me in my
                    horrible emergency.
                “He had received a letter addressed to me at Wildernsea, by George, and forwarded
                    from there to my father. This letter had been written within a few days of the
                    sailing of the Argus, and it announced the probable date of the
                    ship's arrival at Liverpool. This letter gave us, therefore, data upon which to
                    act.
                “We decided at once upon the first step. This was that on the date of the
                    probable arrival of the Argus, or a few days later, an
                    advertisement of my death should be inserted in the Times.
                “But almost immediately after deciding upon this, we saw that there were fearful
                    difficulties in the carrying out of such a simple plan. The date of the death,
                    and the place in which I died, must be announced, as well as the death itself.
                    George would immediately hurry to that place, however distant it might be,
                    however comparatively inaccessible, and the shallow falsehood would be
                    discovered.
                
                “I knew enough of his sanguine temperament, his courage and determination, his
                    readiness to hope against hope, to know that unless he saw the grave in which I
                    was buried, and the register of my death, he would never believe that I was lost
                    to him.
                “My father was utterly dumfounded and helpless. He could only shed childish tears
                    of despair and terror. He was of no use to me in this crisis.
                “I was hopeless of any issue out of my difficulty. I began to think that I must
                    trust to the chapter of accidents; and hope that amongst other obscure corners
                    of the earth, Audley Court might be undreamt-of by my husband.
                “I sat with my father, drinking tea with him in his miserable hovel, and playing
                    with the child, who was pleased with my dress and jewels, but quite unconscious
                    that I was anything but a stranger to him. I had the boy in my arms, when a
                    woman who attended him came to fetch him that she might make him more fit to be
                    seen by the lady, as she said.
                
                “I was anxious to know how the boy was treated, and I detained this woman in
                    conversation with me, while my father dozed over the tea-table.
                “She was a pale-faced, sandy-haired woman, of about five-and-forty; and she
                    seemed very glad to get the chance of talking to me as long as I pleased to
                    allow her. She soon left off talking of the boy, however, to tell me her own
                    troubles. She was in very great trouble, she told me. Her eldest daughter had
                    been obliged to leave her situation from ill-health; in fact, the doctor said
                    the girl was in a decline; and it was a hard thing for a poor widow who had seen
                    better days to have a sick daughter to support, as well as a family of young
                    children.
                “I let the woman run on for a long time in this manner, telling me the girl's
                    ailments, and the girl's age, and the girl's doctor's stuff, and piety, and
                    sufferings, and a great deal more. But I neither listened to her nor heeded her.
                    I heard her, but only in a far-away manner, as I heard the traffic in the
                    street, or the ripple of the stream at the
                    bottom of it. What were this woman's troubles to me? I had miseries of my own;
                    and worse miseries than her coarse nature could ever have to
                    endure. These sort of people always had sick husbands or sick children, and
                    expected to be helped in their illness by the rich. It was nothing out of the
                    common. I was thinking this; and I was just going to dismiss the woman with a
                    sovereign for her sick daughter; when an idea flashed upon me with such painful
                    suddenness that it sent the blood surging up to my brain, and set my heart
                    beating, as it only beats when I am mad.
                “I asked the woman her name. She was a Mrs. Plowson, and she kept a small general
                    shop, she said, and only ran in now and then to look after Georgey, and to see
                    that the little maid-of-all-work took care of him. Her daughter's name was
                    Matilda. I asked her several questions about this girl Matilda, and I
                    ascertained that she was four-and-twenty, that she had always been consumptive,
                    and that she was now, as the doctor said, going off in a rapid decline. He had 
                        de-
                        declared
                     clared that she could not last much
                    more than a fortnight.
                “It was in three weeks that the ship that carried George Talboys was expected to
                    anchor in the Mersey.
                “I need not dwell much upon this business. I visited the sick girl. She was fair
                    and slender. Her description, carelessly given, might tally nearly enough with
                    my own; though she bore no shadow of resemblance to me, except in these two
                    particulars. I was received by the girl as a rich lady who wished to do her
                    service. I bought the mother, who was poor and greedy, and who for a gift of
                    money, more money than she had ever before received, consented to submit to
                    anything I wished. Upon the second day after my introduction to this Mrs.
                    Plowson, my father went over to Ventnor, and hired lodgings for his invalid
                    daughter and her little boy. Early the next morning he carried over the dying
                    girl and Georgey, who had been bribed to call her ‘mamma’. She entered the house
                    as Mrs. Talboys
                        
                        ;
                     she was attended by a Ventnor medical man as Mrs. Talboys; she died, and her death and burial were registered in
                    that name. The advertisement was inserted in the Times, and upon
                    the second day after its insertion George Talboys visited Ventnor, and ordered
                    the tombstone which at this hour records the death of his wife, Helen Talboys.”
                Sir Michael Audley rose slowly, and with a stiff, constrained action, as if every
                    physical sense had been benumbed by that one sense of misery.
                “I cannot hear any more,” he said, in a hoarse whisper; “if there is anything
                    more to be told, I cannot hear it. Robert, it is you who have brought about this
                    discovery, as I understand. I want to know nothing more. Will you take upon
                    yourself the duty of providing for the safety and comfort of this lady, whom I
                    have thought my wife? I need not ask you to remember in all you do, that I have
                    loved her very dearly and truly. I cannot say farewell to her. I will not say it
                    until I can think of her without bitterness—until I can pity her; as I now pray
                    that God may pity her this night.”
                
                Sir Michael walked slowly from the room. He did not trust himself to look at that
                    crouching figure. He did not wish to see the creature whom he had cherished. He
                    went straight to his dressing-room, rang for his valet, and ordered him to pack
                    a portmanteau, and make all necessary arrangements for accompanying his master
                    by the last up-train.
            
            
            
                
                CHAPTER IV.
                THE HUSH THAT SUCCEEDS THE TEMPEST.
                ROBERT AUDLEY followed his uncle into the vestibule after Sir Michael
                    had spoken those few quiet words which sounded the death-knell of his hope and
                    love. Heaven knows how much the young man had feared the coming of this day. It
                    had come; and though there had been no great outburst of despair, no whirlwind
                    of stormy grief, no loud tempest of anguish and tears, Robert took no comforting
                    thought from the unnatural stillness. He knew enough to know that Sir Michael
                    Audley went away with the barbed arrow, which his nephew's hand had sent home to
                    its aim, rankling in his tortured heart; he knew that this strange and icy calm
                    was the first numbness of a heart stricken by grief so unexpected as for a time
                    to be rendered almost incomprehensible by a blank stupor of 
                        astonish-
                        astonishment
                     ment. He knew that when this dull
                    quiet had passed away, when little by little, and one by one, each horrible
                    feature of the sufferer's sorrow became first dimly apparent and then terribly
                    familiar to him, the storm would burst in fatal fury, and tempests of tears and
                    cruel thunderclaps of agony would rend that generous heart.
                Robert had heard of cases in which men of his uncle's age had borne some great
                    grief, as Sir Michael had borne this, with a strange quiet; and had gone away
                    from those who would have comforted them, and whose anxieties have been relieved
                    by this patient stillness, to fall down upon the ground and die under the blow
                    which at first had only stunned them. He remembered cases in which paralysis and
                    apoplexy had stricken men as strong as his uncle in the first hour of the
                    horrible affliction; and he lingered in the lamplit vestibule, wondering whether
                    it was not his duty to be with Sir Michael—to be near him, in case of any
                    emergency, and to accompany him wherever he went.
                Yet, would it be wise to force himself upon
                    that grey-headed sufferer in this cruel hour, in which he had been awakened from
                    the one delusion of a blameless life to discover that he had been the dupe of a
                    false face, and the fool of a nature which was too coldly mercenary, too cruelly
                    heartless, to be sensible of its own infamy?
                “No,” thought Robert Audley, “I will not intrude upon the anguish of this wounded
                    heart. There is humiliation mingled with this bitter grief. It is better he
                    should fight the battle alone. I have done what I believe to have been my solemn
                    duty, yet I should scarcely wonder if I had rendered myself forever hateful to
                    him. It is better he should fight the battle alone. I can do nothing to make the
                    strife less terrible. Better that it should be fought alone.”
                While the young man stood with his hand upon the library door, still half
                    doubtful whether he should follow his uncle or re-enter the room in which he had
                    left that more wretched creature, whom it had been his business to unmask,
                    Alicia Audley opened the dining-room door, and 
                        re-
                        revealed
                     vealed to him the old-fashioned
                    oak-paneled apartment, the long table covered with snowy damask, and bright with
                    a cheerful glitter of glass and silver.
                “Is papa coming to dinner?” asked Miss Audley. “I'm so
                    hungry; and poor Tomlins has sent up three times to say the fish will be
                    spoiled. It must be reduced to a species of isinglass soup by this time, I
                    should think,” added the young lady, as she came out into the vestibule with the
                        Times newspaper in her hand.
                She had been sitting by the fire reading the paper, and waiting for her seniors
                    to join her at the dinner table.
                “Oh, it's you, Mr. Robert Audley,” she remarked, indifferently. “You dine with
                    us, of course. Pray go and find papa. It must be nearly eight o'clock, and we
                    are supposed to dine at six.”
                Mr. Audley answered his cousin rather sternly. Her frivolous manner jarred upon
                    him, and he forgot in his irrational displeasure that Miss Audley had known
                    nothing of the terrible drama which had been
                    so long enacting under her very nose.
                “Your papa has just endured a very great grief, Alicia,” the young man said,
                    gravely.
                The girl's arch, laughing face changed in a moment to a tenderly earnest look of
                    sorrow and anxiety. Alicia Audley loved her father very dearly.
                “A grief!” she exclaimed; “papa grieved? Oh! Robert, what has happened?”
                “I can tell you nothing yet, Alicia,” Robert answered, in a low voice.
                He took his cousin by the wrist, and drew her into the dining-room as he spoke.
                    He closed the door carefully behind him before he continued:—
                “Alicia, can I trust you?” he asked, earnestly.
                “Trust me to do what?”
                “To be a comfort and a friend to your poor father under a very heavy affliction.”
                “YES!” cried Alicia, passionately. “How can you ask me such a
                    question? Do you think there is anything I would not do to lighten any sorrow of my father's? Do you think there is
                    anything I would not suffer if my suffering could lighten his?”
                The rushing tears rose to Miss Audley's bright grey eyes as she spoke.
                “Oh, Robert! Robert! could you think so badly of me as to think I would not try
                    to be a comfort to my father in his grief?” she said, reproachfully.
                “No, no, my dear,” answered the young man, quietly; “I never doubted your
                    affection, I only doubted your discretion. May I rely upon that?”
                “You may, Robert,” said Alicia, resolutely.
                “Very well, then, my dear girl, I will trust you. Your father is going to leave
                    the Court, for a time at least. The grief which he has just endured—a sudden and
                    unlooked-for sorrow, remember—has no doubt made this place hateful to him. He is
                    going away; but he must not go alone, must he, Alicia?”
                “Alone? no! no! But I suppose my lady—”
                “Lady Audley will not go with him,” said
                    Robert, gravely; “he is about to separate himself from her.”
                “For a time?”
                “No; for ever.”
                “Separate himself from her for ever!” exclaimed Alicia. “Then this grief—”
                “Is connected with Lady Audley. Lady Audley is the cause of your father's
                    sorrow.”
                Alicia's face, which had been pale before, flushed crimson. Sorrow, of which my
                    lady was the cause—a sorrow which was to separate Sir Michael forever from his
                    young wife! There had been no quarrel between them—there had never been anything
                    but harmony and sunshine between Lucy Audley and her generous husband. This
                    sorrow must surely then have arisen from some sudden discovery; it was, no
                    doubt, a sorrow associated with disgrace. Robert Audley understood the meaning
                    of that vivid blush.
                “You will offer to accompany your father wherever he may choose to go, Alicia,”
                    he said. “You are his natural comforter at such a time as this, but you will
                    best befriend him in this hour of trial by
                    avoiding all intrusion upon his grief. Your very ignorance of the particulars of
                    that grief will be a security for your discretion. Say nothing to your father
                    that you might not have said to him two years ago, before he married a second
                    wife. Try and be to him what you were before the woman in yonder room came
                    between you and your father's love.”
                “I will,” murmured Alicia, “I will.”
                “You will naturally avoid all mention of Lady Audley's name. If your father is
                    often silent, be patient; if it sometimes seems to you that the shadow of this
                    great sorrow will never pass away from his life, be patient still; and remember
                    that there can be no better hope of a cure of his grief than the hope that his
                    daughter's devotion may lead him to remember there is one woman upon this earth
                    who will love him truly and purely until the last.”
                “Yes, yes, Robert, dear cousin, I will remember.”
                Mr. Audley, for the first time since he had
                    been a schoolboy, took his cousin in his arms and kissed her broad forehead.
                “My dear Alicia,” he said, “do this, and you will make me happy. I have been in
                    some measure the means of bringing this sorrow upon your father. Let me hope
                    that it is not an enduring one. Try and restore my uncle to happiness, Alicia,
                    and I will love you more dearly than brother ever loved a noble-hearted sister;
                    and a brotherly affection may be worth having, perhaps, after all, my dear,
                    though it is very different to poor Sir Harry's enthusiastic worship.”
                Alicia's head was bent and her face hidden from her cousin while he spoke; but
                    she lifted her head when he had finished, and looked him full in the face with a
                    smile that was only the brighter for her eyes being filled with tears.
                “You are a good fellow, Bob,” she said: “and I've been very foolish and wicked to
                    feel angry with you, because—”
                The young lady stopped suddenly.
                “Because what, my dear?” asked Mr. Audley.
                “Because I'm silly, cousin Robert,” Alicia said
                    quickly; “never mind that, Bob; I'll do all you wish, and it shall not be my
                    fault if my dearest father doesn't forget his troubles before long. I'd go to
                    the end of the world with him, poor darling, if I thought there was any comfort
                    to be found for him in the journey. I'll go and get ready directly. Do you think
                    papa will go to-night?”
                “Yes, my dear; I don't think Sir Michael will rest another night under this roof,
                    yet awhile.”
                “The mail goes at twenty minutes past nine,” said Alicia; “we must leave the
                    house in an hour if we are to travel by it. I shall see you again before we go,
                    Robert?”
                “Yes, dear.”
                Miss Audley ran off to her room to summon her maid, and make all necessary
                    preparations for the sudden journey, of whose ultimate destination she was as
                    yet quite ignorant.
                She went heart and soul into the carrying out of the duty which Robert had
                    dictated to her. She assisted in the packing of her portmanteaus, and hopelessly
                    bewildered her maid by stuffing silk dresses into her bonnet boxes, and satin
                        shoes into her dressing-case. She roamed
                    about her rooms gathering together drawing materials, music-books, needlework,
                    hair-brushes, jewellery, and perfume-bottles, very much as she might have done
                    had she been about to sail for some savage country devoid of all civilized
                    resources. She was thinking all the time of her father's unknown grief; and
                    perhaps a little of the serious face and earnest voice which had that night
                    revealed her cousin Robert to her in a new character.
                Mr. Audley went up-stairs after his cousin, and found his way to Sir Michael's
                    dressing-room. He knocked at the door and listened, heaven knows how anxiously,
                    for the expected answer. There was a moment's pause, during which the young
                    man's heart beat loud and fast, and then the door was opened by the baronet
                    himself. Robert saw that his uncle's valet was already hard at work preparing
                    for his master's hurried journey.
                Sir Michael came out into the corridor.
                “Have you anything more to say to me, Robert?” he asked, quietly.
                
                “I only came to ascertain if I could assist in any of your arrangements. You go
                    to London by the mail?”
                “Yes.”
                “Have you any idea of where you will stay?”
                “Yes, I shall stop at the Clarendon; I am known there. Is that all you have to
                    say?”
                “Yes; except that Alicia will accompany you.”
                “Alicia!”
                “She could not very well stay here, you know, just now. It would be best for her
                    to leave the Court until—”
                “Yes, yes, I understand,” interrupted the baronet; “but is there nowhere else
                    that she could go,—must she be with me?”
                “She could go nowhere else so immediately; and she would not be happy anywhere
                    else.”
                “Let her come, then,” said Sir Michael, “let her come.”
                He spoke in a strange subdued voice, and with an apparent effort; as if it were
                    painful to him to have to speak at all. As if all this ordinary business of life
                    were a cruel torture to him; and jarred so
                    much upon his grief as to be almost worse to bear than that grief itself.
                “Very well, my dear uncle, then all is arranged; Alicia will be ready to start at
                    nine o'clock.”
                “Very good, very good,” muttered the baronet; “let her come if she pleases; poor
                    child, let her come.”
                He sighed heavily as he spoke in that half pitying tone of his daughter. He was
                    thinking how comparatively indifferent he had been towards that only child for
                    the sake of the woman now shut in the fire-lit room below.
                “I shall see you again before you go, sir,” said Robert; “I will leave you till
                    then.”
                “Stay!” said Sir Michael, suddenly; “have you told Alicia?”
                “I have told her nothing; except that you are about to leave the Court for some
                    time.”
                “You are very good, my boy, you are very good,” the baronet murmured in a broken
                    voice.
                He stretched out his hand. His nephew took it in both his own, and pressed it to
                    his lips.
                
                “Oh, sir! how can I ever forgive myself?” he said; “how can I ever cease to hate
                    myself for having brought this grief upon you?”
                “No, no, Robert, you did right—you did right; I wish that God had been so
                    merciful to me as to take my miserable life before this night; but you did
                    right.”
                Sir Michael re-entered his dressing-room, and Robert slowly returned to the
                    vestibule. He paused upon the threshold of that chamber in which he had left
                    Lucy, Lady Audley; otherwise Helen Talboys, the wife of his lost friend.
                She was lying upon the floor; upon the very spot in which she had crouched at her
                    husband's feet telling her guilty story. Whether she was in a swoon; or whether
                    she lay there in the utter helplessness of her misery; Robert scarcely cared to
                    know. He went out into the vestibule, and sent one of the servants to look for
                    her maid, the smart be-ribboned damsel, who was loud in wonder and consternation
                    at the sight of her mistress.
                “Lady Audley is very ill,” he said; “take her
                    to her room and see that she does not leave it to-nigbt. You will be good enough
                    to remain near her; but do not either talk to her, or suffer her to excite
                    herself by talking.”
                My lady had not fainted; she allowed the girl to assist her, and rose from the
                    ground upon which she had grovelled. Her golden hair fell in loose, dishevelled
                    masses about her ivory throat and shoulders; her face and lips were colourless;
                    her eyes terrible in their unnatural light.
                “Take me away,” she said, “and let me sleep! Let me sleep, for my brain is on
                    fire!”
                As she was leaving the room with her maid, she turned and looked at Robert. “Is
                    Sir Michael gone?” she asked.
                “He will leave in half an hour.”
                “There were no lives lost in the fire at Mount Stanning?”
                “None.”
                “I am glad of that.”
                “The landlord of the house, Marks, was very terribly burned, and lies in a
                    precarious state at his mother's cottage; but he may recover.”
                
                “I am glad of that—I am glad no life was lost. Good-night, Mr. Audley.”
                “I shall ask to see you for half an hour's conversation in the course of
                    to-morrow, my lady?”
                “Whenever you please. Good night.”
                “Good night.”
                She went away, quietly leaning upon her maid's shoulder, and leaving Robert with
                    a sense of strange bewilderment that was very painful to him.
                He sat down by the broad hearth upon which the red embers were fading, and
                    wondered at the change in that old house which, until the day of his friend's
                    disappearance, had been so pleasant a home for all who sheltered beneath its
                    hospitable roof. He sat brooding over that desolate hearth, and trying to decide
                    upon what must be done in this sudden crisis. He sat, helpless and powerless to
                    determine upon any course of action, lost in a dull reverie, from which he was
                    aroused by the sound of carriage wheels driving up to the little turret
                    entrance.
                
                The clock in the vestibule struck nine as Robert opened the library-door. Alicia
                    had just descended the stairs with her maid, a rosy-faced country girl.
                “Good-by, Robert,” said Miss Audley, holding out her hand to her cousin;
                    “good-by, and God bless you! You may trust me to take care of papa.”
                “I am sure I may. God bless you, my dear.”
                For the second time that night Robert Audley pressed his lips to his cousin's
                    candid forehead; and for the second time the embrace was of a brotherly or
                    paternal character; rather than the rapturous proceeding which it would have
                    been had Sir Harry Towers been the privileged performer.
                It was five minutes past nine when Sir Michael came downstairs, followed by his
                    valet, grave and grey-haired like himself. The baronet was pale, but calm and
                    self-possessed. The hand which he gave to his nephew was as cold as ice; but it
                    was with a steady voice that he bade the young man good-by.
                
                “I leave all in your hands, Robert,” he said, as he turned to leave the house in
                    which he had lived so long. “I may not have heard the end; but I have heard
                    enough. Heaven knows I have no need to hear more. I leave all to you, but you
                    will not be cruel—you will remember how much I loved—”
                His voice broke huskily before he could finish the sentence.
                “I will remember you in everything, sir,” the young man answered. “I will do
                    everything for the best.”
                A treacherous mist of tears blinded him and shut out his uncle's face, and in
                    another minute the carriage had driven away, and Robert Audley sat alone in the
                    dark library, where only one red spark glowed amongst the pale-grey ashes. He
                    sat alone, trying to think what he ought to do, and with the awful
                    responsibility of a wicked woman's fate upon his shoulders.
                “Good Heavens,” he thought; “surely this must be God's judgment upon the
                    purposeless, vacillating life I led up to the seventh day of last September. Surely this awful responsibility has been
                    forced upon me in order that I may humble myself to an offended Providence, and
                    confess that a man cannot choose his own life. He cannot say, ‘I will take
                    existence lightly, and keep out of the way of the wretched, mistaken, energetic
                    creatures, who fight so heartily in the great battle.’ He cannot say, ‘I will
                    stop in the tents while the strife is fought, and laugh at the fools who are
                    trampled down in the useless struggle.’ He cannot do this. He can only do,
                    humbly and fearfully, that which the Maker who created him has appointed for him
                    to do. If he has a battle to fight, let him fight it faithfully; but woe betide
                    him if he skulks when his name is called in the mighty muster-roll; woe betide
                    him if he hides in the tents when the tocsin summons him to the scene of war!”
                One of the servants brought candles into the library, and relighted the fire; but
                    Robert Audley did not stir from his seat by the hearth. He sat as he had often
                    sat in his chambers in Fig-tree Court, with
                    his elbows resting upon the arms of his chair, and his chin upon his hand.
                But he lifted his head as the servant was about to leave the room.
                “Can I send a telegram from here to London?” he asked.
                “It can be sent from Brentwood, sir,—not from here.”
                Mr. Audley looked at his watch, thoughtfully.
                “One of the men can ride over to Brentwood, sir, if you wish any message to be
                    sent.”
                “I do wish to send a message; will you manage it for me, Richards?”
                “Certainly, sir.”
                “You can wait, then, while I write the message?”
                “Yes, sir.”
                The man brought writing materials from one of the side-tables, and placed them
                    before Mr. Audley.
                Robert dipped a pen in the ink, and stared thoughtfully at one of the candles for
                    a few moments before he began to write.
                
                The message ran thus:—
                “From Robert Audley, of Audley Court, Essex, to Francis Wilmington, of Paper
                    Buildings, Temple.
                “Dear Wilmington, if you know any physician, experienced in cases of mania, and
                    to be trusted with a secret, be so good as to send me his address by telegraph.”
                Mr. Audley sealed this document in a stout envelope, and handed it to the man,
                    with a sovereign.
                “You will see that this is given to a trustworthy person, Richards,” he said,
                    “and let the man wait at the station for the return message. He ought to get it
                    in an hour and a half.”
                Mr. Richards, who had known Robert Audley in jackets and turn-down collars,
                    departed to execute his commission. Heaven forbid that we should follow him into
                    the comfortable servants' hall at the Court, where the household sat round the
                    blazing fire, discussing in utter bewilderment the events of the day.
                Nothing could be wider from the truth than the
                    speculations of these worthy people. What clue had they to the mystery of that
                    fire-lit room in which a guilty woman had knelt at their master's feet to tell
                    the story of her sinful life? They only knew that which Sir Michael's valet had
                    told them of this sudden journey. How his master was as pale as a sheet, and
                    spoke in a strange voice that didn't sound like his own, somehow, and how you
                    might have knocked him—Mr. Parsons, the valet—down with a feather, if you had
                    been minded to prostrate him by the aid of so feeble a weapon.
                The wiseheads of the servants' hall decided that Sir Michael had received sudden
                    intelligence through Mr. Robert—they were wise enough to connect the young man
                    with the catastrophe,—either of the death of some near and dear relation—the
                    elder servants decimated the Audley family in their endeavors to find a likely
                    relation—or of some alarming fall in the funds; or of the failure of some
                    speculation or bank in which the greater part of the baronet's money was
                    invested. The general leaning was towards the failure of a bank; and every member of the assembly seemed to take
                    a dismal and raven-like delight in the fancy; though such a supposition involved
                    their own ruin in the general destruction of that liberal household.
                Robert sat by the dreary hearth, which seemed dreary even now when the blaze of a
                    great wood-fire roared in the wide chimney, and listened to the low wail of the
                    March wind, moaning round the house and lifting the shivering ivy from the walls
                    it sheltered. He was tired and worn out, for remember that he had been awakened
                    from his sleep at two o'clock that morning by the hot breath of blazing timber
                    and the sharp crackling of burning wood-work. But for his presence of mind and
                    cool decision, Mr. Luke Marks would have died a dreadful death. He still bore
                    the traces of the night's peril, for the dark hair had been singed upon one side
                    of his forehead, and his left hand was red and inflamed from the effect of the
                    scorching atmosphere, out of which he had dragged the landlord of the Castle
                    Inn. He was thoroughly exhausted with fatigue and 
                        excite-
                        excitement
                     ment, and he fell into a heavy sleep
                    in his easy-chair before the bright fire, from which he was only awakened by the
                    entrance of Mr. Richards with the return message.
                This return message was very brief.
                “Dear Audley, always glad to oblige. Alwyn Mosgrave, M.D., 12, Saville Row.
                    Safe.”
                This, with names and addresses, was all that it contained.
                “I shall want another message taken to Brentwood to-morrow morning, Richards,”
                    said Mr. Audley, as he folded the telegram. “I should be glad if the man would
                    ride over with it before breakfast. He shall have half-a-sovereign for his
                    trouble.”
                Mr. Richards bowed.
                “Thank you, sir—not necessary, sir; but as you please, of course, sir,” he
                    murmured. “At what hour might you wish the man to go?”
                Mr. Audley might wish the man to go as early as he could; so it was decided that
                    he should go at six.
                
                “My room is ready I suppose, Richards?” said Robert.
                “Yes, sir—your old room.”
                “Very good. I shall go to bed at once. Bring me a glass of brandy-and-water as
                    hot as you can make it, and wait for the telegram.
                        
                        ”
                    
                This second message was only a very earnest request to Doctor Mosgrave to pay an
                    immediate visit to Audley Court on a matter of serious moment.
                Having written this message, Mr. Audley felt that he had done all that he could
                    do. He drank his brandy-and-water. He had actual need of the diluted alcohol,
                    for he had been chilled to the bone by his adventures during the fire. He slowly
                    sipped the pale golden liquid and thought of Clara Talboys, of that earnest girl
                    whose brother's memory was now avenged, whose brother's destroyer was humiliated
                    in the dust. Had she heard of the fire at the Castle Inn! How could she have
                    done otherwise than hear of it in such a place as Mount Stanning? But had she
                    heard that he had been in danger, and that he had 
                        dis-
                        distinguished
                     tinguished himself by the rescue of
                    a drunken boor? I fear that, even sitting by that desolate hearth, and beneath
                    the roof, whose noble owner was an exile from his own house, Robert Audley was
                    weak enough to think of these things—weak enough to let his fancy wander away to
                    the dismal fir-trees under the cold February sky, and the dark-brown eyes that
                    were so like the eyes of his lost friend.
            
            
            
                
                CHAPTER V.
                DR. MOSGRAVE'S ADVICE
                        
                        .
                    
                MY lady slept. Through that long winter night she slept soundly.
                    Criminals have often so slept their last sleep upon earth; and have been found
                    in the grey morning slumbering peacefully by the gaoler who came to wake them.
                The game had been played and lost. I do not think that my lady had thrown away a
                    card, or missed the making of a trick which she might by any possibility have
                    made: but her opponent's hand had been too powerful for her, and he had won.
                She was more at peace now than she had ever been since that day—so soon after her
                    second marriage—on which she had seen the announcement of the return of George
                    Talboys from the gold-fields of Australia. She might rest now, for they now knew
                    the worst of her. There were no new
                    discoveries to be made. She had flung the horrible burden of an almost
                    unendurable secret off her shoulders, and her selfish sensous nature resumed its
                    mastery of her. She slept, peacefully nestled in her downy bed, under the soft
                    mountain of silken coverlet, and in the sombre shade of the green velvet
                    curtains. She had ordered her maid to sleep on a low couch in the same room, and
                    she had also ordered that a lap should be kept burning all night.
                Not that I think she had any fear of shadowy visitations in the still hours of
                    the night. She was too thoroughly selfish to care very much for anything that
                    could not hurt her; and she had never heard of a ghost doing any actual and
                    palpable harm. She had feared Robert Audley, but she feared him no longer. He
                    had done his worst; she knew that he could do no more without bringing
                    everlasting disgrace upon the name he venerated.
                “They'll put me away somewhere, I suppose,” my lady thought, “that is the worst
                    they can do for me.”
                
                She looked upon herself as a species of state prisoner, who would have to be
                    taken good care of. A second Iron Mask who must be provided for in some
                    comfortable place of confinement. She abandoned herself to a dull indifference.
                    She had lived a hundred lives within the space of the last few days of her
                    existence, and she had worn out her capacity for suffering; for a time at least.
                She took a cup of strong green tea, and a few delicate fragments of toast the
                    next morning with the same air of quiet relish common to condemned creatures who
                    eat their last meal, while the gaolers look on to see that they do not bite
                    fragments off the crockery, or swallow the teaspoon, or do any other violent act
                    tending to the evasion of Mr. Jack Ketch. She ate her breakfast, and took her
                    morning bath, and emerged, with perfumed hair, and in the most exquisitely
                    careless of morning toilets, from her luxurious dressing-room. She looked round
                    at all the costly appointments of the room with a yearning lingering gaze before
                    she turned to leave it; but there was not one
                    tender recollection in her mind of the man who had caused the furnishing of the
                    chamber, and who in every precious toy that was scattered about in the reckless
                    profusion of magnificence, had laid before her a mute evidence of his love. My
                    lady was thinking how much the things had cost, and how painfully probable it
                    was that the luxurious apartment would soon pass out of her posssession.
                She looked at herself in the cheval-glass before she left the room. A long
                    night's rest had brought back the delicate rose-tints of her complexion, and the
                    natural lustre of her blue eyes. That unnatural light which had burned so
                    fearfully the day before had gone, and my lady smiled triumphantly as she
                    contemplated the reflection of her beauty. The days were gone in which her
                    enemies could have branded her with white-hot irons, and burned away the
                    loveliness which had done such mischief. Whatever they did to her, they must
                    leave her her beauty, she thought. At the worst they were powerless to rob her
                    of that.
                The March day was bright and sunny, with a
                    cheerless sunshine certainly. My lady wrapped herself in an Indian shawl; a
                    shawl that had cost Sir Michael a hundred guineas. I think she had an idea that
                    it would be well to wear this costly garment; so that if hustled suddenly away,
                    she might carry at least one of her possessions with her. Remember how much she
                    had perilled for a fine house and gorgeous furniture, for carriages and horses,
                    jewels and laces; and do not wonder if she clung with a desperate tenacity to
                    gauds and gew-gaws in the hour of her despair. If she had been Judas she would
                    have held to her thirty pieces of silver to the last moment of her shameful
                    life.
                Mr. Robert Audley breakfasted in the library. He sat long over his solitary cup
                    of tea, smoking his meerschaum pipe, and meditating darkly upon the task that
                    lay before him.
                “I will appeal to the experience of this Dr. Mosgrave,” he thought; “physicians
                    and lawyers are the confessors of this prosaic nineteenth century. Surely he
                    will be able to help me.”
                The first fast train from London arrived at
                    Audley at half-past ten o'clock, and at five minutes before eleven, Richards,
                    the grave servant, announced Dr. Alwyn Mosgrave.
                The physician from Saville Row was a tall man, of about fifty years of age. He
                    was thin and sallow, with lantern jaws, and eyes of a pale feeble grey, that
                    seemed as if they had once been blue, and had faded by the progress of time to
                    their present neutral shade. However powerful the science of medicine as wielded
                    by Dr. Alwyn Mosgrave, it had not been strong enough to put flesh upon his
                    bones, or brightness into his face. He had a strangely expressionless, and yet
                    strangely attentive countenance. He had the face of a man who had spent the
                    greater part of his life in listening to other people, and who had parted with
                    his own individuality, and his own passions at the very outset of his career.
                He bowed to Robert Audley, took the opposite seat indicated by him, and addressed
                    his attentive face to the young barrister. Robert saw that the physician's
                    glance for a moment lost its quiet look of attention, and became earnest and
                    searching.
                
                “He is wondering whether I am the patient,” thought Mr. Audley, “and is looking
                    for the diagnoses of madness in my face.”
                Dr. Mosgrave spoke as if in answer to this thought.
                “Is it not about your own—health—that you wish to consult me?” he said
                    interrogatively.
                “Oh, no!”
                Dr. Mosgrave looked at his watch, a fifty guinea Benson-made chronometer, which
                    he carried loose in his waistcoat pocket as carelessly as if it had been a
                    potato.
                “I need not remind you that my time is precious,” he said, “your telegram
                    informed me that my services were required in a case of—danger—as I apprehend,
                    or I should not be here this morning.”
                Robert Audley had sat looking gloomily at the fire, wondering how he should begin
                    the conversation, and had needed this reminder of the physician's presence.
                “You are very good, Dr. Mosgrave,” he said, rousing himself by an effort, “and I
                    thank you very much for having responded to my
                    summons. I am about to appeal to you upon a subject which is more painful to me
                    than words can describe. I am about to implore your advice in a most difficult
                    case, and I trust, almost blindly, to your experience to rescue me, and others
                    who are very dear to me, from a cruel and complicated position.”
                The business-like attention in Dr. Mosgrave's face grew into a look of interest
                    as he listened to Robert Audley.
                “The revelation made by the patient to the physician is I believe as sacred as
                    the confession of a penitent to his priest?” Robert asked gravely.
                “Quite as sacred.”
                “A solemn confidence, to be violated under no circumstances?”
                “Most certainly.”
                Robert Audley looked at the fire again. How much should he tell, or how little,
                    of the dark history of his uncle's second wife.
                “I have been given to understand, Dr. 
                        Mos-
                        Mosgrave
                     grave, that you have devoted much of
                    your attention to the treatment of insanity.”
                “Yes, my practice is almost confined to the treatment of mental diseases.”
                “Such being the case, I think I may venture to conclude that you sometimes
                    receive strange, and even terrible revelations.”
                Dr. Mosgrave bowed.
                He looked like a man who could have carried, safely locked in his passionless
                    breast, the secrets of a nation, and who would have suffered no inconvenience
                    from the weight of such a burden.
                “The story which I am about to tell you is not my own story,” said Robert, after
                    a pause, “you will forgive me therefore if I once more remind you that I can
                    only reveal it upon the understanding that under no circumstances, or upon no
                    apparent justification, is that confidence to be betrayed.”
                Dr. Mosgrave bowed again. A little sternly perhaps this time.
                “I am all attention, Mr. Audley,” he said, coldly.
                
                Robert Audley drew his chair nearer to that of the physician, and in a low voice
                    began the story which my lady had told upon her knees in the same chamber upon
                    the previous night. Dr. Mosgrave's listening face, turned always towards the
                    speaker, betrayed no surprise at that strange revelation. He smiled once, a
                    grave quiet smile, when Mr. Audley came to that part of the story which told of
                    the conspiracy at Ventnor, but he was not surprised. Robert Audley ended his
                    story at the point at which Sir Michael Audley had interrupted my lady's
                    confession. He told nothing of the disappearance of George Talboys, nor of the
                    horrible suspicions that had grown out of that disappearance. He told nothing of
                    the fire at the Castle Inn.
                Dr. Mosgrave shook his head gravely when Mr. Audley came to the end of his story.
                “You have nothing further to tell me?” he said.
                “No. I do not think there is anything more that need be told,” Robert answered,
                    rather evasively.
                “You would wish to prove that this lady is mad,
                    and therefore irresponsible for her actions, Mr. Audley?” said the physician.
                Robert Audley stared wondering at the mad doctor. By what process had he so
                    rapidly arrived at the young man's secret desire.
                “Yes, I would rather, if possible, think her mad, I should be glad to find that
                    excuse for her.”
                “And to save the esclandre of a Chancery suit,
                    I suppose, Mr. Audley,” said Dr. Mosgrave.
                Robert shuddered, as he bowed an assent to this remark. It was something worse
                    than a Chancery suit that he dreaded, with a horrible fear. It was a trial for
                    murder that had so long haunted his dreams. How often he had awoke in an agony
                    of shame from a vision of a crowded court-house, and his uncle's wife, in a
                    criminal dock, hemmed in on every side by a sea of eager faces.
                “I fear that I shall not be of any use to you,” the physician said quietly, “I
                    will see the lady if you please, but I do not believe that she is mad.”
                
                “Why not?”
                “Because there is no evidence of madness in anything she has done. She ran away
                    from her home, because her home was not a pleasant one, and she left it in the
                    hope of finding a better. There is no madness in that. She committed the crime
                    of bigamy, because by that crime she obtained fortune and position. There is no
                    madness there. When she found herself in a desperate position, she did not grow
                    desperate. She employed intelligent means, and she carried out a conspiracy
                    which required coolness and deliberation in its execution. There is no madness
                    in that.”
                “But the taints of hereditary insanity—”
                “May descend to the third generation and appear in the lady's children, if she
                    have any. Madness is not necessarily transmitted from mother to daughter. I
                    should be glad to help you, if I could, Mr. Audley, but I do not think there is
                    any proof of insanity in the story you have told me. I do not think any jury in
                    England would accept the plea of insanity in
                    such a case as this. The best thing you can do with this lady is to send her
                    back to her first husband; if he will have her.”
                Robert started at this sudden mention of his friend. “Her first husband is dead—”
                    he answered, “at least he has been missing for some time—and I have reason to
                    believe that he is dead.”
                Dr. Mosgrave saw the startled movement, and heard the embarrassment in Robert
                    Audley's voice as he spoke of George Talboys.
                “The lady's first husband is missing,” he said, with a strange emphasis on the
                    word—“you think that he is dead?”
                He paused for a few moments and looked at the fire, as Robert had looked before.
                “Mr. Audley,” he said presently, “there must be no half-confidences between us.
                    You have not told me all.”
                Robert, looking up suddenly, plainly expressed in his face the surprise he felt
                    at these words.
                “I should be very poorly able to meet the contingencies of my professional
                    experience,” said Dr. Mosgrave, “if I could
                    not perceive where confidence ends and reservation begins. You have only told me
                    half this lady's story, Mr. Audley. You must tell me more before I can offer you
                    any advice. What has become of the first husband?”
                He asked this question in a decisive tone. As if he knew it to be the key-stone
                    of an arch.
                “I have already told you, Dr. Mosgrave, that I do not know.”
                “Yes,” answered the physician, “but your face has told me what you would have
                    withheld from me; it has told me that you suspect!”
                Robert Audley was silent.
                “If I am to be of use to you, you must trust me, Mr. Audley,” said the physician.
                    “The first husband disappeared—how and when? I want to know the history of his
                    disappearance.”
                Robert paused for some time before he replied to this speech; but by and by, he
                    lifted his head, which had been bent in an attitude of earnest thought, and
                    addressed the physician.
                “I will trust you, Dr. Mosgrave,” he said, “I
                    will confide entirely in your honour and goodness. I do not ask you to do any
                    wrong to society; but I ask you to save our stainless name from degradation and
                    shame, if you can do so conscientiously.”
                He told the story of George's disappearance, and of his own doubts and fears,
                    heaven knows how reluctantly.
                Dr. Mosgrave listened as quietly as he had listened before. Robert concluded with
                    an earnest appeal to the physician's best feelings. He implored him to spare the
                    generous old man, whose fatal confidence in a wicked woman had brought such
                    misery upon his declining years.
                It was impossible to draw any conclusion either favourable or otherwise from Dr.
                    Mosgrave's attentive face. He rose when Robert had finished speaking, and looked
                    at his watch once more.
                “I can only spare you twenty minutes,” he said. “I will see the lady if you
                    please. You say her mother died in a mad-house.”
                “She did. Will you see Lady Audley alone?”
                
                “Yes, alone if you please.”
                Robert rang for my lady's maid, and under convoy of that smart young damsel the
                    physician found his way to the octagon ante-chamber, and the fairy boudoir with
                    which it communicated.
                Ten minutes afterwards he returned to the library in which Robert sat waiting for
                    him.
                “I have talked to the lady,” he said quietly, “and we understand each other very
                    well. There is latent insanity! Insanity which might never appear; or which
                    might appear only once or twice in a life-time. It would be a dementia in its worst phase perhaps: acute mania;
                    but its duration would be very brief, and it would only arise under extreme
                    mental pressure. The lady is not mad; but she has the hereditary taint in her
                    blood. She has the cunning of madness, with the prudence of intelligence. I will
                    tell you what she is, Mr. Audley. She is dangerous!”
                Dr. Mosgrave walked up and down the room once or twice before he spoke again.
                “I will not discuss the probabilities of the suspicion that distresses you, Mr.
                    Audley,” he said presently, “but I will tell
                    you this much. I do not advise any esclandre.
                    This Mr. George Talboys has disappeared, but you have no evidence of his death.
                    If you could produce evidence of his death, you could produce no evidence
                    against this lady, beyond the one fact that she had a powerful motive for
                    getting rid of him. No jury in the United Kingdom would condemn her upon such
                    evidence as that.”
                Robert Audley interrupted Dr. Mosgrave hastily.
                “I assure you, my dear Sir,” he said, “that my greatest fear is the necessity of
                    any exposure—any disgrace.”
                “Certainly, Mr. Audley,” answered the physician coolly, “but you cannot expect me
                    to assist you to condone one of the worst offenses against society. If I saw
                    adequate reason for believing that a murder had been committed by this woman, I
                    should refuse to assist you in smuggling her away out of the reach of justice,
                    although the honour of a hundred noble families might be saved by my doing so.
                    But I do not see adequate reason for your
                    suspicions; and I will do my best to help you.”
                Robert Audley grasped the physician's hands in both his own.
                “I will thank you when I am better able to do so,” he said, with emotion; “I will
                    thank you in my uncle's name as well as in my own.”
                “I have only five minutes more, and I have a letter to write,” said Dr. Mosgrave,
                    smiling at the young man's energy.
                He seated himself at a writing table in the window, dipped his pen in the ink and
                    wrote rapidly for about seven minutes. He had filled three sides of a sheet of
                    note paper when he threw down his pen and folded his letter.
                He put this letter into an envelope and delivered it, unsealed, to Robert Audley.
                The address which it bore was—
                Monsieur Val,
                Villebrumeuse,
                Belgium.
                Mr. Audley looked rather doubtfully from this address to the doctor, who was
                    putting on his gloves as deliberately as if
                    his life had never known a more solemn purpose than the proper adjustment of
                    them.
                “That letter,” he said, in answer to Robert Audley's inquiring look, “is written
                    to my friend Monsieur Val, the proprietor and medical superintendent of a very
                    excellent maison de santé in the town of
                    Villebrumeuse. We have known each other for many years, and he will no doubt
                    willingly receive Lady Audley into his establishment, and charge himself with
                    the full responsibility of her future life; it will not be a very eventful one!”
                Robert Audley would have spoken, he would have once more expressed his gratitude
                    for the help which had been given to him, but Dr. Mosgrave checked him with an
                    authoritative gesture.
                “From the moment in which Lady Audley enters that house,” he said, “her life, so
                    far as life is made up of action and variety, will be finished. Whatever secrets
                    she may have will be secrets forever! Whatever crimes she may have committed she will be able to commit no more. If you
                    were to dig a grave for her in the nearest churchyard and bury her alive in it,
                    you could not more safely shut her from the world and all worldly associations.
                    But as a physiologist and as an honest man I believe you could do no better
                    service to society than by doing this; for physiology is a lie if the woman I
                    saw ten minutes ago is a woman to be trusted at large. If she could have sprung
                    at my throat and strangled me with her little hands, as I sat talking to her
                    just now, she would have done it.”
                “She suspected your purpose, then!”
                “She knew it. ‘You think I am mad like my mother, and you have come to question
                    me,’ she said. ‘You are watching for some sign of the dreadful taint in my
                    blood.’ Good-day to you, Mr. Audley,” the physician added hurriedly, “my time
                    was up ten minutes ago, it is as much as I shall do to catch the train.”
            
            
            
                
                CHAPTER VI.
                BURIED ALIVE.
                ROBERT AUDLEY sat alone in the library with the physician's letter upon
                    the table before him, thinking of the work which was still to be done.
                The young barrister had constituted himself the denouncer of this wretched woman.
                    He had been her judge; and he was now her gaoler. Not until he had delivered the
                    letter which lay before him to its proper address, not until he had given up his
                    charge into the safe-keeping of the foreign mad-house doctor, not until then
                    would the dreadful burden be removed from him and his duty done.
                He wrote a few lines to my lady, telling her that he was going to carry her away
                    from Audley Court to a place from which she was not likely to return, and
                    requesting her to lose no time in preparing
                    for the journey. He wished to start that evening, if possible, he told her.
                Miss Susan Martin, the lady's-maid, thought it a very hard thing to have to pack
                    her mistress' trunks in such a hurry, but my lady assisted in the task. It
                    seemed a pleasant excitement to her, this folding and refolding of silks and
                    velvets, this gathering together of jewels and millinery. They were not going to
                    rob her of her possessions, she thought. They were going to send her away to
                    some place of exile; but even exile was not hopeless, for there was scarcely any
                    spot upon this wide earth in which her beauty would not costitute a little
                    royalty, and win her liege knights and willing subjects. She toiled resolutely
                    in directing and assisting her servant, who scented bankruptcy and ruin in all
                    this packing up and hurrying away, and was therefore rather languid and
                    indifferent in the discharge of her duties; and at six o'clock in the evening
                    she sent her attendant to tell Mr. Audley that she was ready to depart as soon
                    as he pleased.
                Robert had consulted a volume of Bradshaw, and had discovered that Villebrumeuse lay out of the
                    track of all railway traffic, and was only approachable by diligence from
                    Brussels. The mail for Dover left London Bridge at nine o'clock, and could be
                    easily caught by Robert and his charge, as the seven o'clock up-train from
                    Audley reached Shoreditch at a quarter past eight. Travelling by the Dover and
                    Calais route, they would reach Villebrumeuse by the following afternoon or
                    evening.
                What need have we to follow them upon that dismal night journey? My lady lay on
                    one of the narrow cabin couches, comfortably wrapped in her furs; she had not
                    forgotten her favourite Russian sables even in this last hour of shame and
                    misery. Her mercenary soul hankered greedily after the costly and beautiful
                    things of which she had been mistress. She had hidden away frgile tea-cups and
                    covered vases of Sèvres and Dresden among the folds of her silken dinner
                    dresses. She had secreted jewelled and golden drinking cups amongst her delicate
                    linen. She would have taken the pictures from the walls, and the Gobelin tapestry from the chairs, had 
                        i een
                        it been
                     it possible for her to do so. She had taken all she could, and she
                    accompanied Mr. Audley with a sulky submission, that was the despondent
                    obedience of despair.
                Robert Audley paced the deck of the steamer as the Dover clocks were striking
                    twelve, and the town glimmered like a luminous crescent across the widening
                    darkness of the sea. The vessel flew swiftly through the rolling waters towards
                    the friendly Gallic shore, and Mr. Audley sighed a long sigh of relief as he
                    remembered how soon his work would be done. He thought of the wretched creature
                    lying forlorn and friendless in the cabin below. But when he pitied her most,
                    and he could not but sometimes pity her for her womanhood and her helplessness,
                    his friend's face came back upon him, bright and hopeful as he had seen it only
                    on that first day of George's return from the Antipodes, and with that memory
                    there returned his horror of the shameful lie that had broken the husband's
                    heart.
                
                “Can I ever forget it?” he thought; “can I ever forget his blank white face as he
                    sat opposite to me at the coffee house, with the Times newspaper
                    in his hand? There are some crimes that can never be atoned for, and this is one
                    of them. If I could bring George Talboys to life to-morrow, I could never heal
                    that horrible heart-wound; I could never make him the man he was before he read
                    that printed lie.”
                It was late in the afternoon of the next day when the diligence bumped and
                    rattled over the uneven paving of the principal street in Villebrumeuse. The old
                    ecclesiastical town, always dull and dreary, seemed more than ordinarily dreary
                    under the grey evening sky. The twinkling lamps, lighted early, and glimmering
                    feebly, long distances apart, made the place seem darker rather than lighter, as
                    glow-worms intensify the blackness of a hedge by their shining presence. The
                    remote Belgian city was a forgotten, old world place, and bore the dreary evidence of decay upon every façade in the
                    narrow streets, on every dilapidated roof, and feeble pile of chimneys. It was
                    difficult to imagine for what reason the opposite rows of houses had been built
                    so close together as to cause the lumbering diligence to brush the foot
                    passegers off the wretched trottoir, unless
                    they took good care to scrape the shop windows with thier garments, for there
                    was building room enough and to spare upon the broad expanse of flat country
                    that lay behind the old city. Hyper-critical travellers might have wondered why
                    the narrowest and most uncomfortable streets were the busiest and most
                    prosperous, while the nobler and broader thoroughfares were empty and deserted.
                    But Robert Audley thought of none of these things. He sat in a corner of the
                    mouldy carriage, watching my lady in the opposite corner, and wondering what the
                    face was like that was so carefully hidden beneath her veil.
                They had had the coupé of the diligence to
                    themselves for the whole of the journey, for there were not many travellers
                    between Brussels and Villebrumeuse, and the
                    public conveyance was suppported by the force of tradition rather than any great
                    profit attaching to it as a speculation.
                My lady had not spoken during the journey, except to decline some refreshments
                    which Robert had offered her at a halting-place upon the road. Her heart sank
                    when they left Brussels behind, for she had hoped that city might have been the
                    end of her journey, and she had turned with a feeling of sickness and despair
                    from the dull Belgian landscape.
                She looked up at last as the vehicle jolted into a great stony quadrangle, which
                    had been the approach to a monastery once, but which was now the coutyard of a
                    dismal hotel, in whose cellars legions of rats skirmished and squeaked even
                    while the broad sunshine was bright in the chambers above.
                Lady Audley shuddered as she alighted from the diligence, and found herself in
                    that dreary courtyard. Robert was surrounded by chattering porters, who clamored
                    for his “baggages,” and disputed amongst
                    themselves as to the hotel at which he was to rest. One of these men ran away to
                    fetch a hackney-coach at Mr. Audley's behest, and reappeared presently, urging
                    on a pair of horses—which were so small as to suggest the idea that they had
                    been made out of one ordinary-sized animal—with wild shrieks and whoops that had
                    a demoniac sound in the darkness.
                Robert handed my lady into the hired vehicle, and took his seat opposite to her
                    once more.
                “Where are you going to take me?” she asked, at last. “I am tired of being
                    treated like some naughty child, who is put into a dark cellar as a punishment
                    for its offences. Where are you taking me?”
                “To a place in which you will have ample leisure to repent the past, Mrs.
                    Talboys,” Robert answered, gravely.
                They had left the paved streets behind them, and had emerged out of a great gaunt
                    square, in which there appeared to be about half a dozen cathedrals, into a
                    smooth boulevard, a broad lamp-lit road, on
                    which the shadows of the leafless branches went and came tremblingly, like the
                    shadows of a paralytic skeletons. There were houses here and there upon this
                    boulevard; stately houses, entre cour et
                    jardin, and with plaster vases of geraniums on the stone pillars of
                    the ponderous gateways. The rumbling hackney-carriage drove upwards of
                    three-quarters of a mile along this smooth roadway before it drew up against a
                    gateway, older and more ponderous than any of those they had passed.
                My lady gave a little scream as she looked out of the coach window. The gaunt
                    gateway was lighted by an enormous lamp; a great structure of iron and glass, in
                    which one poor little shivenng flame struggled with the March wind.
                The coachman rang the bell, and a little wooden door at the side of the gate was
                    opened by a grey-haired man, who looked out at the carriage, and then retired.
                    He reappeared three minutes afterwards behind the folding iron gates which he
                    unlocked and threw back to their full extent,
                    revealing a dreary desert of stone-paved courtyard.
                The coachman led his wretched horses into this courtyard, and piloted the vehicle
                    to the principal doorway of the house, a great mansion of grey stone, with
                    several long ranges of windows, many of which were dimly lighted, and looked out
                    like the pale eyes of weary watchers upon the darkness of the night.
                My lady, watchful and quiet as the cold stars in the wintry sky, looked up at
                    these casements with an earnest and scrutinising gaze. One of the windows was
                    shrouded by a scanty curtain of faded red; and upon this curtain there went and
                    came a dark shadow, the shadow of a woman with a fantastic head-dress, the
                    shadow of a restless creature, who paced perpetually backwards and forwards
                    before the window.
                Sir Michael Audley's wicked wife laid her hand suddenly upon Robert's arm, and
                    pointed with the other hand to this curtained window.
                “I know where you have brought me,” she said. “This is a MAD-HOUSE.”
                
                Mr. Audley did not answer her. He had been standing at the door of the coach when
                    she addressed him, and he quietly assisted her to alight, and led her up a
                    couple of shallow stone-steps, and into the entrance-hall of the mansion. He
                    handed Dr. Mosgrave's letter to a neatly-dressed, cheerful-looking, middle-aged
                    woman, who came tripping out of a little chamber which opened out of the hall,
                    and was very much like the bureau of an hotel. This person smilingly welcomed
                    Robert and his charge; and after dispatching a servant with the letter, invited
                    them into her pleasant little apartment, which was gaily furnished with bright
                    amber curtains and heated by a tiny stove.
                “Madame finds herself very much fatigued,” the Frenchwoman said, interrogatively,
                    with a look of intense sympathy, as she placed an arm-chair for my lady.
                “Madame” shrugged her shoulders wearily, and looked round the little chamber with
                    a sharp glance of scrutiny that betokened no very great favour.
                
                “WHAT is this place, Robert Audley?” she cried fiercely. “Do you
                    think I am a baby, that you may juggle with and deceive me—what is it? It is
                    what I said just now, is it not?”
                “It is a maison de santé, my lady,” the young
                    man answered graverly. “I have no wish to juggle with or to deceive you.”
                My lady paused for a few moments, looking reflectively at Robert.
                “A maison de santé,” she repeated. "Yes they
                    manage these things better in France. In England we should call it a mad-house.
                    This a house for mad people, this, is it not, Madame?” she said, in French,
                    turning upon the woman, and tapping the polished floor with her foot.
                “Ah, but no, Madame,” the woman answered, with a shrill scream of protest. “It is
                    an establishment of the most agreeable, where one, amuses oneself—”
                She was interrupted by the entrance of the principal of this agreeable
                    establishment, who came beaming into the room with a radiant smile illuminating his countenance, and with Dr. Mosgrave's
                    letter open in his hand.
                It was impossible for him to say how enchanted he was to make the
                    acquaintance of M'sieu. There was nothing upon earth which he was not ready to
                    do for M'sieu in his own person, and nothing under heaven which he would not
                    strive to accomplish for him, as the friend of his acquaintance, so very much
                    distinguished, the English doctor. Dr. Mosgrave's letter had given him a brief
                    synopsis of the case, he informed Robert, in an undertone, and he was quite
                    prepared to undertake the care of the charming and very interesting
                    Madame—Madame—
                He rubbed his hands politely, and looked at Robert. Mr. Audley remembered, for
                    the first time, that he had been recommended to introduce his wretched charge
                    under a feigned name.
                He affected not to hear the proprietor's question. It might seem a very easy
                    matter to have hit upon a heap of names, any one of which would have answered
                    his purpose; but Mr. Audley appeared suddenly to have forgotten that he had ever heard any mortal appellation except that
                    of himself and his lost friend.
                Perhaps the proprietor perceived and understood his embarrassment. He at any rate
                    relieved it by turning to the woman who had received them, and muttering
                    something about No. 14, Bis. The woman took a key from a long range of others
                    that hung over the mantel-piece, and a wax candle from a bracket in a corner of
                    the room, and having lighted the candle, led the way across the stone-paved
                    hall, and up a broad slippery staircase of polished wood.
                The English physician had informed his Belgian colleague that money would be of
                    minor consequence in any arrangements made for the comfort of the English lady
                    who was to be committed to his care. Acting upon this hint, Monsieur Val opened
                    the outer door of a stately suite of apartments, which included a lobby, paved
                    with alternate diamonds of black and white marble, but of a dismal and
                    cellarlike darkness; a saloon furnished with gloomy velvet draperies, and with a
                    certain funereal splendour which is not
                    peculiarly conducive to the elevation of the spirits; and a bed-chamber,
                    containing a bed so wondrously made, as to appear to have no opening whatever in
                    its coverings, unless the counterpane had been split open with a penknife.
                My lady stared dismally round at the range of rooms, which looked dreary enough
                    in the wan light of a single wax candle. This solitary flame, pale and ghostlike
                    in itself, was multiplied by paler phantoms of its ghostliness, which glimmered
                    everywhere about the rooms; in the shadowy depths of the polished floors and
                    wainscot, or the window panes, in the looking-glasses, or in those great
                    expanses of glimmering something which adorned the rooms, and which my lady
                    mistook for costly mirrors, but which were in reality wretched mockeries of
                    burnished tin.
                Amid all the faded splendour of shabby velvet, and tarnished gilding, and
                    polished wood, the woman dropped into an arm-chair, and covered her face with
                    her hands. The whiteness of them, and the starry light of diamonds trembling
                    about them glittered in the dimly-lighted
                    chamber. She sat silent, motionless, despairing, sullen, and angry, while Robert
                    and the French doctor retired into an outer chamber, and talked together in
                    undertones. Mr. Audley had very little to say that had not been already said for
                    him, with a far better grace than he himself could have expressed it, by the
                    English physician. He had, after great trouble of mind, hit upon the name of
                    Taylor, as a safe and simple substitute for that other name to which alone my
                    lady had a right. He told the Frenchman that this Mrs. Taylor was distantly
                    related to him—that she had inherited the seeds of madness from her mother, as
                    indeed Dr. Mosgrave had informed him; and that she had shown some fearful tokens
                    of the lurking taint that was latent in her mind; but that she was not to be
                    called “mad.” He begged that she might be treated with all tenderness and
                    compassion; that she might receive all reasonable indulgences; but he impressed
                    upon Monsieur Val, that under no circumstances was she to be permitted to leave
                    the house and grounds without the protection of  some reliable person, who should be answerable for her safe keeping. He had
                    only one other point to urge, and that was that Monsieur Val, who, as he had
                    understood, was himself a Protestant—the doctor bowed—would make arrangements
                    with some kind and benevolent Protestant clergyman, through whom spiritual
                    advice and consolation might be secured for the invalid lady, who had especial
                    need, Robert added, gravely, of such advantages.
                This—with all necessary arrangements as to pecuniary matters, which were to be
                    settled from time to time between Mr. Audley and the doctor, unassisted by any
                    agents whatever—was the extent of the conversation between the two men, and
                    occupied about a quarter of an hour. My lady sat in the same attitude when they
                    re-entered the bedchamber in which they had left her, with her ringed hands
                    still clasped over her face.
                Robert bent over her to whisper in her ear.
                “Your name is Madame Taylor here,” he said. “I do not think you would wish to be
                    known by your real name.”
                
                She only shook her head in answer to him, and did not even remove her hands from
                    over her face.
                “Madame will have an attendant entirely devoted to her service,” said Monsieur
                    Val. “Madame will have all her wishes obeyed; her reasonable
                    wishes, but that goes without saying,” Monsieur adds, with a quaint shrug.
                    “Every effort will be made to render Madame's sojourn at Villebrumeuse
                    agreeable, and as much profitable as agreeable.”
                Monsieur is saying a great deal more to the same effect, rubbing his hands and
                    beaming radiantly upon Robert and his charge, when Madame rises suddenly, erect
                    and furious, and dropping her jewelled fingers from before her face, tells him
                    to hold his tongue.
                “Leave me alone with the man who has brought me here,” she cried between her set
                    teeth. “Leave me!”
                She points to the door with a sharp imperious gesture; so rapid that the silken
                    drapery about her arm makes a swooping sound as she lifts  her hand. The sibillant French syllables hiss through
                    her teeth as she utters them, and seem better fitted to her mood and to herself
                    than the familiar English she has spoken hitherto.
                The French doctor shrugs his shoulders as he goes out into the dark lobby, and
                    mutters something about a “beautiful devil,” and a gesture worthy of the Mars.
                    My lady walked with a rapid footstep to the door between the bedchamber and the
                    saloon; closed it, and with the handle of the door still in her hand, turned and
                    looked at Robert Audley.
                “You have brought me to my grave, Mr. Audley,” she cried; “you have used your
                    power basely and cruelly, and have brought me to a living grave.”
                “I have done that which I thought just to others and merciful to you,” Robert
                    answered, quietly; “I should have been a traitor to society had I suffered you
                    to remain at liberty after—after the disappearance of George Talboys and the
                    fire at the Castle Inn. I have brought you to a place in which you will be
                    kindly treated by people who have no knowledge
                    of your story—no power to taunt or to reproach you. You will lead a quiet and
                    peaceful life, my lady, such a life as many a good and holy woman in this
                    catholic country freely takes upon herself, and happily endures until the end.
                    The solitude of your existence in this place will be no greater than that of a
                    king's daughter, who, flying from the evil of the time, was glad to take shelter
                    in a house as tranquil as this. Surely it is a small atonement which I ask you
                    to render for your sins, a light penance which I call upon you to perform. Live
                    here and repent; nobody will assail you, nobody will torment you. I only say to
                    you, repent!”
                “I cannot!” cried my lady, pushing her hair fiercely from her white
                    forehead, and fixing her dilated eyes upon Robert Audley, "I
                    cannot! Has my beauty brought me to this? Have I
                    plotted and schemed to shield myself, and laid awake in the long deadly nights
                    trembling to think of my dangers, for this? I had better have given
                    up at once, since this was to be the end. I had better have yielded
                    to the curse that was  upon me, and given up
                    when George Talboys first came back to England.”
                She plucked at the feathery golden curls as if she would have torn them from her
                    head. It had served her so little after all, that gloriously glittering hair;
                    that beautiful nimbus of yellow light that had contrasted so exquisitely with
                    the melting azure of her eyes. She hated herself and her beauty.
                “I would laugh at you and defy you if I dared,” she cried; “I would kill myself
                    and defy you if I dared. But I am a poor, pitiful coward, and have been so from
                    the first. Afraid of my mother's horrible inheritance; afraid of poverty; afraid
                    of George Talboys; afraid of you.”
                She was silent for a little while, but she still held her place by the door, as
                    if determined to detain Robert as long as it was her pleasure to do so.
                “Do you know what I am thinking of?” she said presently. “Do you know what I am
                    thinking of, as I look at you in the dim light of this  room? I am thinking of the day upon which George
                    Talboys—disappeared.”
                Robert started as she mentioned the name of his lost friend; his face turned pale
                    in the dusky light, and his breathing grew quicker and louder.
                “He was standing opposite me as you are standing now,” continued my lady. “You
                    said that you would raze the old house to the ground; that you would root up
                    every tree in the gardens to find your dead friend. You would have had no need
                    to do so much; the body of George Talboys lies at the bottom of the old well, in
                    the shrubbery beyond the lime-walk.”
                Robert Audley flung up his hands and clasped them above his head, with one loud
                    cry of horror.
                “Oh, my God!” he said, after a dreadful pause, “have all the ghastly things that
                    I have thought prepared me so little for the ghastly truth, that it should come
                    upon me like this at last?”
                “He came to me in the lime-walk,” resumed my lady, in the same hard, dogged tone
                    as that in which she had confessed the wicked story of her  life. “I knew that he would come, and I had prepared
                    myself, as well as I could, to meet him. I was determined to bribe him, to
                    cajole him, to defy him; to do anything sooner than abandon the wealth and the
                    position I had won, and go back to my old life. He came, and he reproached me
                    for the conspiracy at Ventnor. He declared that so long as he lived he would
                    never forgive me for the lie that had broken his heart. He told me that I had
                    plucked his heart out of his breast and trampled upon it; and that he had now no
                    heart in which to feel one sentiment of mercy for me. That he would have
                    forgiven me any wrong upon earth, but that one deliberate and passionless wrong
                    that I had done him. He said this and a great deal more, and he told me that no
                    power on earth should turn him from his purpose, which was to take me to the man
                    I had deceived, and make me tell my wicked story. He did not know the hidden
                    taint that I had sucked in with my mother's milk. He did not know that it was
                    possible to drive me mad. He goaded me as you have goaded me; he was as merciless as you have been merciless. We were
                    in the shrubbery at the end of the lime-walk. I was seated upon the broken
                    masonry at the mouth of the well. George Talboys was leaning upon the disused
                    wheel, in which the rusty iron spindle rattled loosely whenever he shifted his
                    position. I rose at last, and turned upon him to defy him, as I had determined
                    to defy him at the worst. I told him that if he denounced me to Sir Michael, I
                    would declare him to be a madman or a liar, and I defied him to convince the man
                    who loved me—blindly as I told him—that he had any claim to me. I was going to
                    leave him after having told him this, when he caught me by the wrist and
                    detained me by force. You saw the bruises that his fingers made upon my wrist
                    and noticed them, and did not believe the account I gave of them. I could see
                    that, Mr. Robert Audley, and I saw that you were a person I should have to
                    fear.”
                She paused, as if she had expected Robert to speak; but he stood silent and
                    motionless waiting for the end.
                
                “George Talboys treated me as you treated me,” she said presently. “He swore that
                    if there was but one witness of my identity, and that witness was removed from
                    Audley Court by the width of the whole earth, he would bring him there to swear
                    to my identity, and to denounce me. It was then that I was mad. It was then that
                    I drew the loose iron spindle from the shrunken wood, and saw my first husband
                    sink with one horrible cry into the black mouth of the well. There is a legend
                    of its enormous depth. I do not know how deep it is. It is dry, I suppose; for I
                    heard no splash; only a dull thud. I looked down and I saw nothing but black
                    emptiness. I knelt down and listened, but the cry was not repeated, though I
                    waited for a quarter of an hour—God knows how long it seemed to me—by the mouth
                    of the well.”
                Robert Audley uttered no word of horror when the story was finished. He moved a
                    little nearer towards the door against which Helen Talboys stood. Had there been
                    any other means of exit from the room, he would gladly have availed  himself of it. He shrank from even a momentary
                    contact with this creature.
                “Let me pass you, if you please,” he said, in an icy voice.
                “You see I do not fear to make my confession to you,” said Helen Talboys, “for
                    two reasons. The first is that you dare not use it against me, because you know
                    it would kill your uncle to see me in a criminal dock; the second is, that the
                    law could pronounce no worse sentence than this, a life-long imprisonment in a
                    mad-house. You see I do not thank you for your mercy, Mr. Robert Audley, for I
                    know exactly what it is worth.”
                She moved away from the door, and Robert passed her, without a word, without a
                    look.
                Half an hour afterwards he was in one of the principal hotels at Villebrumeuse,
                    sitting at a neatly-ordered supper-table, with no power to eat; with no power to
                    distract his mind, even for a moment, from the image of that lost friend who had
                    been treacherously murdered in the thicket at Audley Court.
            
            
            
                
                CHAPTER VII.
                GHOST-HAUNTED.
                NO feverish sleeper travelling in a strange dream ever looked out more
                    wonderingly upon a world that seemed unreal than Robert Audley, as he stared
                    absently at the flat swamps and dismal poplars between Villebrumeuse and
                    Brussels. Could it be that he was returning to his uncle's house without the
                    woman who had reigned in it for nearly two years as queen and mistress? He felt
                    as if he had carried off my lady, and had made away with her secretly and
                    darkly, and must now render up an account to Sir Michael of the fate of that
                    woman, whom the baronet had so dearly loved.
                “What shall I tell him,” he thought; “shall I tell the truth—the horrible ghastly
                    truth? No; that would be too cruel. His generous spirit would sink under the
                    hideous revelation. Yet, in his  ignorance of
                    the extent of this wretched woman's wickedness, he may think perhaps that I have
                    been hard with her.”
                Brooding thus, Mr. Robert Audley absently watched the cheerless landscape from
                    his seat in the shabby coupé of the diligence,
                    and thought how great a leaf had been torn out of his life, now that the dark
                    story of George Talboys was finished.
                What had he to do next? A crowd of horrible thoughts rushed into his mind as he
                    remembered the story that he had heard from the white lips of Helen Talboys. His
                    friend—his murdered friend—lay hidden amongst the mouldering ruins of the old
                    well at Audley Court. He had lain there for six long months, unburied, unknown;
                    hidden in the darkness of the old convent well. What was to be done?
                To institute a search for the remains of the murdered man was to inevitably bring
                    about a coroner's inquest. Should such an inquest be held, it was next to
                    impossible that the history of my lady's crime could fail to be brought to
                    light.  To prove that George Talboys met with
                    his death at Audley Court was to prove almost as surely that my lady had been
                    the instrument of that mysterious death; for the young man had been known to
                    follow her into the lime-walk upon the day of his disappearance.
                “My God!” Robert exclaimed, as the full horror of this position became evident to
                    him, “is my friend to rest in this unhallowed burial-place because I have
                    condoned the offenses of the woman who murdered him?”
                He felt that there was no way out of this difficulty. Sometimes he thought that
                    it little mattered to his dead friend whether he lay entombed beneath a marble
                    monument, whose workmanship should be the wonder of the universe, or in that
                    obscure hiding-place in the thicket at Audley Court. At another time he would be
                    seized with a sudden horror at the wrong that had been done to the murdered man,
                    and would fain have travelled even more rapidly than the express between
                    Brussels and Paris could carry him, in his eagerness to reach the  end of his journey, that he might set right this
                    cruel wrong.
                He was in London at dusk on the second day after that on which he had left Audley
                    Court, and he drove straight to the Clarendon, to inquire after his uncle. He
                    had no intention of seeing Sir Michael, as he had not yet determined how much or
                    how little he should tell him, but he was very anxious to ascertain how the old
                    man had sustained the cruel shock he had so lately endured.
                “I will see Alicia,” he thought; “she will tell me all about her father. It is
                    only two days since he left Audley. I can scarcely expect to hear of any
                    favourable change.”
                But Mr. Audley was not destined to see his cousin that evening, for the servants
                    at the Clarendon told him that Sir Michael and his daughter had left by the
                    morning mail for Paris, on their way to Vienna.
                Robert was very well pleased to receive this intelligence; it afforded him a
                    welcome respite, for it would be decidedly better to tell the baronet nothing of his guilty wife until he returned to
                    England, with his health unimpaired, and his spirits re-established, it was to
                    be hoped.
                Mr. Audley drove to the Temple. The chambers which had seemed dreary to him ever
                    since the disappearance of George Talboys were doubly so to-night. For that
                    which had been only a dark suspicion had now become a horrible certainty. There
                    was no longer room for the palest ray, the most transitory glimmer of hope. His
                    worst terrors had been too well founded.
                George Talboys had been cruelly and treacherously murdered by the wife he had
                    loved and mourned.
                There were three letters waiting for Mr. Audley at his chambers. One was from Sir
                    Michael, and another from Alicia. The third was addressed in a hand the young
                    barrister knew only too well, though he had seen it but once before. His face
                    flushed redly at the sight of the superscription, and he took the letter in his
                    hand, carefully and tenderly, as if it had been a living thing, and sentient to
                    his touch. He turned it over and over in his
                    hands, looking at the crest upon the envelope, at the post-mark, at the colour
                    of the paper, and then put it into the bosom of his waistcoat with a strange
                    smile upon his face.
                “What a wretched and unconscionable fool I am,” he thought. “Have I laughed at
                    the follies of weak men all my life, and am I to be more foolish than the
                    weakest of them at last? The beautiful brown-eyed creature! Why did I ever see
                    her? Why did my relentless Nemesis ever point the way to that dreary house in
                    Dorsetshire?”
                He opened the first two letters. He was foolish enough to keep the last for a
                    delicious morsel—a fairy-like dessert after the commonplace substantialities of
                    a dinner.
                Alicia's letter told him that Sir Michael had borne his agony with such a
                    persevering tranquility that she had become at last far more alarmed by his
                    patient calmness than by any stormy manifestation of despair. In this difficulty
                    she had secretly called upon the physician who attended the Audley household in
                    any cases of serious illness, and had requested this gentleman  to pay Sir Michael an apparently accidental visit. He
                    had done so, and after stopping half an hour with the baronet, had told Alicia
                    that there was no present danger of any serious consequence from this quiet
                    grief, but that it was necessary that every effort should be made to arouse Sir
                    Michael, and to force him, however unwillingly, into action.
                Alicia had immediately acted upon this advice, had resumed her old empire as a
                    spoiled child, and reminded her father of a promise he had made of taking her
                    through Germany. With considerable difficulty she had induced him to consent to
                    fulfilling this old promise, and having once gained her point, she had contrived
                    that they should leave England as soon as it was possible to do so, and she told
                    Robert, in conclusion, that she would not bring her father back to his old house
                    until she had taught him to forget the sorrows associated with it.
                The Baronet's letter was very brief. It contained half a dozen blank cheques on
                    Sir Michael Audley's London bankers.
                
                “You will require money, my dear Robert,” he wrote, “for such arrangements as you
                    may think fit to make for the future comfort of the person I committed to your
                    care. I need scarcely tell you that those arrangements cannot be too liberal.
                    But perhaps it is as well that I should tell you now, for the first and only
                    time, that it is my earnest wish never again to hear that person's name. I have
                    no wish to be told the nature of the arrangements you may make for her. I am
                    sure that you will act conscientiously and mercifully. I seek to know no more.
                    Whenever you want money, you will draw upon me for any sums that you may
                    require; but you will have no occasion to tell me for whose use you want that
                    money.”
                Robert Audley breathed a long sigh of relief as he folded this letter. It
                    released him from a duty which it would have been most painful for him to
                    perform, and it forever decided his course of action with regard to the murdered
                    man.
                George Talboys must lie at peace in his unknown grave, and Sir Michael Audley
                    must never  learn that the woman he had loved
                    bore the red brand of murder on her soul.
                Robert had only the third letter to open—the letter which he had placed in his
                    bosom while he read the others; he tore open the envelope, handling it carefully
                    and tenderly as he had done before.
                The letter was as brief as Sir Michael's. It contained only these few lines:- 
                        
                            
                                
                                    “Dear Mr. Audley,—
                                    “The rector of this place has been twice to see Marks, the
                                        man you saved in the fire at the Castle Inn. He lies in a
                                        very precarious state at his mother's cottage, near Audley
                                        Court, and is not expected to live many days. His wife is
                                        attending him, and both he and she have expressed a most
                                        earnest desire that you should see him before he dies. Pray
                                        come without delay.
                                    “Yours very sincerely, “CLARA TALBOYS.
                                        “Mount Stanning Rectory, March
                                    6.”
                                
                            
                        
                    
                Robert Audley folded this letter very reverently, and replaced it underneath that
                    part of his  waistcoat which might be supposed
                    to cover the region of his heart. Having done this, he seated himself in his
                    favourite arm-chair, filled and lighted a pipe, and smoked it out, staring
                    reflectingly at the fire as long as his tobacco lasted. The lazy light that
                    gilmmered in his handsome grey eyes told of a dreamy reverie that could have
                    scaracely been either gloomy or unpleasant. His thoughts wandered away upon the
                    blue clouds of hazy tobacco smoke, and carried him into a bright region or
                    unrealities, in which there was neither death nor trouble, grief nor shame, only
                    himself and Clara Talboys in a world that was made all their own by the great
                    omnipotence of their loves.
                It was not till the last shred of pale Turkish tobacco had been consumed, and the
                    grey ashes knocked out upon the topmost bar of the grate, that this pleasant
                    dream floated off into the great storehouse in which the visions of things that
                    never have been and never are to be, are kept locked and guarded by some stern
                    enchanter, who only turns the keys now and then and opens the door of his treasure-house a little way for the brief
                    deight of mankind. But the dream fled, and the heavy burden of dismal realities
                    fell again upon Robert's shoulders, more tenacious than any old man of the sea.
                    “What can that man Marks want with me?” thought the barrister. “He is afraid to
                    die until he has made a confession, perhaps. He wishes to tell me that which I
                    know already,—the story of my lady's crime. I knew that he was in the secret. I
                    was sure of it even upon the night on which I first saw him. He knew the secret,
                    an he traded on it.”
                Robert Audley shrank strangely from returning to Essex. How should he meet Clara
                    Talboys now that he knew the secret of her brother's fate. How many lies he
                    should have to tell, or how much equivocation he must use in order to keep the
                    truth from her. Yet would there be any mercy in telling her that horrible story,
                    the knowledge of which must cast a blight upon her youth, and blot out every
                    hope she had ever secretly cherished. He knew by his own experience how possible
                    it was to hope against hope, and to hope
                    unconsciously; and he could not bear that her heart should be crushed as his had
                    been by the knowledge of the truth. “Better that she should hope vainly to the
                    last,” he thought; “better that she should go through life seeking the clue to
                    her lost brother's fate, than that I should give that clue into her hands and
                    say, ‘Our worst fears are realised. The brother you loved has been foully
                    murdered in the early promise of his youth.’”
                But Clara Talboys had written to him imploring him to return to Essex without
                    delay. Could he refuse to do her bidding, however painful its accomplishment
                    might be. And again, the man was dying, perhaps, and had implored to see him.
                    Would it not be cruel to refuse to go, to delay an hour unnecessarily? He looked
                    at his watch. It wanted only five minutes to nine. There was no train to Audley
                    after the Ipswich mail, which left London at half-past eight; but there was a
                    train that left Shoreditch at eleven, and stopped at Brentwood between twelve
                    and one. Robert decided upon going by this train, and  walking the distance between Brentwood and Audley,
                    which was upwards of six miles.
                He had a long time to wait before it would be necessary to leave the Temple on
                    his way to Shoreditch, and he sat brooding darkly over the fire and wondering at
                    the strange events which had filled his life within the last year and a half,
                    coming like angry shadows between his lazy inclinations and himself, and
                    investing him with purposes that were not his own.
                “Good Heavens!” he thought, as he smoked his second pipe, “how can I believe that
                    it was I who used to lounge all day in this easy chair reading Paul de Kock, and
                    smoking mild Turkish, who used to drop in at half-price to stand amongst the
                    press men at the back of the boxes, and see a new burlesque, and finish the
                    evening with the “Chough and Crow,” and chops and pale ale at Evans's. Was it I
                    to whom life was such an easy merry-go-round? Was it I who was one of the boys
                    who sit at ease upon the wooden horses, while other boys run barefoot in the
                    mud, and work their hardest in the hope of a ride when their work is  done? Heaven knows I have learnt the business of life
                    since then; and now I must needs fall in love and swell the tragic chorus which
                    is always being sung by the poor addition of my pitiful sighs and groans. Clara
                    Talboys! Clara Talboys! Is there any merciful smile latent beneath the earnest
                    light of your brown eyes. What would you say to me if I told you that I love you
                    as earnestly and truly as I have mourned for your brother's fate—that the new
                    strength and purpose of my life which has grown out of my friendship for the
                    murdered man grows even stronger as it turns to you, and changes me until I
                    wonder at myself. What would she say to me? Ah! Heaven knows. If she happened to
                    like the colour of my hair, or the tone of my voice, she might listen to me,
                    perhaps. But would she hear me any more because I love her truly and purely;
                    because I would be constant, and honest, and faithful to her? Not she! These
                    things might move her, perhaps, to be a little pitiful to me; but they would
                    move her no more! If a girl with freckles and white eylashes adored me,  I should only think her a nuisance; but if
                    Clara Talboys had a fancy to trample upon my uncouth person I should think she
                    did me a favour. I hope poor little Allcia may pick up with some fair-haired
                    Saxon in the course of her travels. I hope—” His thoughts wandered away wearily,
                    and lost themselves. How could he hope for anything, or think of anything, while
                    the memory of his dead friend's unburied body haunted him like a horrible
                    spectre? He remembered a story—a morbid, hideous, yet delicious story, which had
                    once pleasantly congealed his blood on a social winter's evening—the story of a
                    man, a monomaniac, perhaps, who had been haunted at every turn by the image of
                    an unburied kinsman who could not rest in his unhallowed
                    hiding-place. What if that dreadful story had its double in reality? What if he
                    were henceforth to be haunted by the phantom of murdered George Talboys?
                He pushed his hair away from his face with both his hands, and looked rather
                    nervously around the snug little apartment. There were  lurking shadows in the corners of the room that he
                    scarcely liked. The door opening into his little dressing-room was ajar; he got
                    up to shut it, and turned the key in the lock with a sharp click.
                “I haven't read Alexandre Dumas and Wilkie Collins for nothing,” he muttered.
                    “I'm up to their tricks, sneaking in at doors behind a fellow's back, and
                    flattening their white faces against window panes, and making themselves all
                    eyes in the twilight. It's a strange thing that your generous-hearted fellow,
                    who never did a shabby thing in his life, is capable of any meanness the moment
                    he becomes a ghost. I'll have the gas laid on to-morrow, and engage Mrs.
                    Maloney's eldest son to sleep under the letter-box in the lobby. The youth plays
                    popular melodies upon a piece of tissue paper and a small-tooth comb, and will
                    be quite pleasant company.”
                Mr. Audley walked wearily up and down the room, trying to get rid of the time. It
                    was no use leaving the Temple until eleven o'clock, and even then he would be
                    sure to reach the station  half an hour too
                    early. He was tired of smoking. The soothing narcotic influence might be
                    pleasant enough in itself, but the man must be of a singularly unsocial
                    disposition who does not, after half a dozen lonely pipes, feel the need of some
                    friendly companion, at whom he can stare dreamily athwart the pale grey mists,
                    and who will stare kindly back at him in return. Do not think that Robert Audley
                    was without friends, because he so often found himself alone in his chambers.
                    The solemn purpose which had taken so powerful a hold of his careless life had
                    separated him from old associations, and it was for this reason that he was
                    alone. He had dropped away from his old friends. How could he sit amongst them,
                    at social wine parties, perhaps, or at pleasant little dinners, that were washed
                    down with Nonpareil and Chambertin, Pomard and Champagne? How could he sit
                    amongst them, listening to their careless talk of politics and opera, literature
                    and racing, theatres and science, scandal, and theology, and yet carry in his
                    mind the horrible burden of  those dark
                    terrors anc suspicions that were with him by day and by night? He could not do
                    it! He had shrunk from those men as if he had, indeed, been a detective police
                    officer, stained with vile associations, and unfit company for honest gentlemen.
                    He had drawn himself away from all familiar haunts, and had shut himself in his
                    lonely rooms with the perpetual trouble of his mind for his sole companion,
                    until he had grown as nervous as habitual solitude will eventually make the
                    strongest and the wisest man, however he may vaunt himself of his strength and
                    wisdom.
                The clock of the Temple Church and the clocks of St. Dunstan's, St. Clement's
                    Danes, and a crowd of other churches, whose steeples uprear themselves above the
                    house-tops by the river, struck ten at last, and Mr. Audley, who had put on his
                    hat and overcoat nearly half an hour before, let himself out of the little
                    lobby, and locked his door behind him. He mentally reiterated his determination
                    to engage “Parthrick,” as Mrs. Maloney's eldest son was called by his devoted
                    mother. The youth should enter  upon his
                    functions the very next night after, and if the ghost of hapless George Talboys
                    should invade these gloomy apartments, the phantom must make its way across
                    Patrick's body before it could reach the inner chamber in which the proprietor
                    of the premises slept.
                Do not laugh at poor Robert because he grew hypochondriacal, after hearing the
                    horrible story of his friend's death. There is nothing so delicate, so fragile,
                    as that invisible balance upon which the mind is always trembling. Mad to-day
                    and sane tomorrow.
                Who can forget that almost terrible picture of Dr. Samuel Johnson? The awful
                    disputant of the club-room, solemn, ponderous, severe, and merciless, the
                    admiration and the terror of humble Bozzy, the stern monitor of gentle Oliver,
                    the friend of Garrick and Reynolds to-night: and to-morrow at sunset a weak
                    miserable old man, discovered by good Mr. and Mrs. Thrale, kneeling upon the
                    floor of his lonely chamber, in an agony of childish terror and confusion, and
                    praying to a merciful God for the 
                    preservation of his wits. I think the memory of that dreadful afternoon, and of
                    the tender care he then received, should have taught the doctor to keep his hand
                    steady at Streatham, when he took his bed-room candlestick, from which it was
                    his habit to shower rivulets of molten wax upon the costly carpet of his
                    beautiful protectress; and might have even had a more enduring effect, and
                    taught him to be merciful, when the brewer's widow went mad in her turn, and
                    married that dreadful creature, the Italian singer. Who has not been, or is not
                    to be, mad in some lonely hour of life? Who is quite safe from the trembling of
                    the balance?
                Fleet Street was quiet and lonely at this late hour, and Robert Audley being in a
                    ghost-seeing mood would have been scarcely astonished had he seen Johnson's set
                    come roystering westward in the lamp-light, or blind John Milton groping his way
                    down the steps before Saint Bride's Church.
                Mr. Audley hailed a hansom at the corner of Farringdon Street, and was rattled
                    rapidly away  across tenantless Smithfield
                    market, and into a labyrinth of dingy streets that brought him out upon the
                    broad grandeur of Finsbury Pavement.
                “Nobody ever saw a ghost in a hansom cab,” Robert thought, “and even Dumas hasn't
                    done that as yet. Not but that he's capable of doing it if the idea
                    occured to him. Un revenant en fiacre. Upon my
                    word, the title doesn't sound bad. The story would be something about a dismal
                    gentleman, in black, who took the vehicle by the hour, and was contumacious upon
                    the subject of fares, and beguiled the driver into lonely neighbourhoods, beyond
                    the barriers, and made himself otherwise unpleasant.”
                The hansom rattled up the steep and stony approach to the Shoreditch station, and
                    deposited Robert at the doors of that unlovely temple. There were very few
                    people going to travel by this midnight train, and Robert walked up and down the
                    long wooden platform, reading the huge advertisements whose gaunt lettering
                    looked wan and ghastly in the dim lamplight.
                
                He had the carriage in which he sat all to himself. All to himself, did I say?
                    Had he not lately summoned to his side that ghostly company which of all
                    companionship is the most tenacious? The shadow of George Talboys pursued him,
                    even in the comfortable first class carriage, and was behind him when he looked
                    out of the window, and was yet far ahead of him and the rushing engine, in that
                    thicket towards which the train was speeding, by the side of the unhallowed
                    hiding-place in which the mortal remains of the dead man lay, neglected and
                    uncared for.
                “I must give my lost friend decent burial,” Robert thought, as the chill wind
                    swept across the flat landscape, and struck him with such frozen breath as might
                    have emanated from the lips of the dead. “I must do it; or I shall die of some
                    panic like this which has seized upon me to-night. I must do it; at any peril;
                    at any cost. Even at the price of that revelation which will bring the mad woman
                    back from her safe hidingplace, and place her in a criminal dock.” He was glad
                         when the train stopped at Brentwood at a
                    few minutes after twelve. Only one other perosn got out at the little station,—a
                    burly grazier, who had been to one of the theatres to see a tragedy. Country
                    people always go to see tragedies. None of your flimsy vaudeilles for them! None
                    of your pretty drawing-room, moderator lamp and French window pieces, with a
                    confiding husband, a frivolous wife, and a smart lady's maid, who is always
                    accommodating enough to dust the furniture and announce visitors; no such gauzy
                    productions; but a good monumental five act tragedy, in which their ancestors
                    have seen Garrick and Mrs. Abington, and in which they themselves can remember
                    the O'Neil, the beautiful creature whose lovely neck and shoulders became
                    suffused with a crimson glow of shame and indignation, when the actress was Mrs.
                    Beverley, and insulted by Stukeley in her poverty and sorrow. I think our modern
                    O'Neils scarcely feel their stage wrongs so keenly; or, perhaps, those brightly
                    indignant blushes of to-day struggle ineffectually against the new art of Madame
                    Rachel, and are lost to the public beneath the
                    lily purity of priceless enamel.
                Robert Audley looked hopelessly about him as he left the pleasnt town of
                    Brentwood, and descended the lonely hill into the valley which lay between the
                    town he had left behind him and that other hill, upon which that frail and
                    dismal tenement—the Castle Inn—had so long struggled with its enemy, the wind,
                    only to succumb at last, and to be shrivelled and consumed away like a withered
                    leaf, by the alliance of that old enemy with a newer and fiercer foe.
                “It's a dreary walk,” Mr. Audley said, as he looked along the smooth high road
                    that lay before him, lonely as the track across a desert. “It's a dreary walk
                    for a dismal wretch to take between twelve and one, upon a cheerless March
                    night, with not so much moonlight in all the black sky as might serve to
                    convince one of the existence of such a luminary. But I'm very glad I came,”
                    thought the barrister, “if this poor creature is dying, and really wishes to see
                    me. I should have been a wretch had I held back. Besides she wishes it; she wishes it; and what can I do but obey
                    her, Heaven help me!”
                He stopped by the wooden fence which surrounded the gardens of Mount Stanning
                    rectory, and looked across a laurel hedge towards the lattice windows of that
                    simple habitation. There was no glimmer of light in any one of these windows,
                    and Mr. Audley was fain to go away, after having had no better satisfaction than
                    such cold comfort as was to be obtained from a long lingering contemplation of
                    the house that sheltered the one woman before whose invincible power the
                    impregnable fortress of his heart had surrendered. Only a heap of blackened
                    ruins stood upon the spot on which the Castle Inn had once done battle with the
                    winds of Heaven. The cold night breezes had their way with the few fragments
                    that the fire had left, and whirled them hither and thither as they would,
                    scattering a shower of dust and cinders and crumbing morsels of charred wood
                    upon Robert Audley as he passed.
                It was half-past one o'clock when the night 
                    wanderer entered the village of Audley, and it was only there that he remembered
                    that Clara Talboys had omitted to give him any direction by which he might find
                    the cottage in which Luke Marks lay.
                “It was Dawson who recommended that the poor creature should be taken to his
                    mother's cottage,” Robert thought, by-and-by, “and I dare say, Dawson has
                    attended him ever since the fire. He'll be able to tell me the way to the
                    cottage.”
                Acting upon this idea, Mr. Audley stopped at the house in which Helen Talboys had
                    lived before her second marriage. The door of the little surgery was ajar, and
                    there was a light burning within. Robert pushed the door open and peeped in. The
                    surgeon was standing at the mahogany counter, mixing a draught in a glass
                    measure, with his hat close beside him. Late as it was, he had evidently only
                    just come in. The harmonious snoring of his assistant sounded from a little room
                    within the surgery.
                “I am sorry to disturb you, Mr. Dawson,” Robert
                    said, apologetically, as the surgeon looked up and recognised him, “but I have
                    come down to see Marks, who, I hear, is in a very bad way, and I want you to
                    tell me the way to his mother's cottage.”
                “I'll show you the way, Mr. Audley,” answered the surgeon, “I am going there this
                    minute.”
                “The man is very bad then?”
                “So bad that he can be no worse. The only change that can happen is that change
                    which will take him beyond the reach of any earthly suffering.”
                “Strange!” exclaimed Robert. “He did not appear to be much burnt.”
                “He was not much burnt. Had he been, I should never have recommended his being
                    removed from Mount Stanning. It is the shock that has done the business. His
                    health had been long undermined by habits of intoxication, and has completely
                    given way under the sudden terror of that night. He has been in a raging fever
                    for the last two days; but to-night he is much
                    calmer, and I'm afraid, before to-morrow night, we shall have seen the last of
                    him.”
                “He has asked to see me, I am told,” said Mr. Audley.
                “Yes,” answered the surgeon, carelessly. “A sick man's fancy, no doubt. You
                    dragged him out of the house, and did your best to save his life. I dare say,
                    rough and boorish as the poor fellow is, he thinks a good deal of that.”
                They had left the surgery, the door of which Mr. Dawson had locked behind him.
                    There was money in the till, perhaps, for surely the village apothecary could
                    not have feared that the most daring housebreaker would imperil his liberty in
                    the pursuit of blue pill and colocynth, or salts and senna.
                The surgeon led the way along the silent street, and presently turned into a lane
                    at the end of which Robert Audley saw the wan glimmer of a light. A light which
                    told of the watch that is kept by the sick and dying; a pale, melancholy light,
                    which always has a dismal aspect when looked upon in this silent hour betwixt night and morning. It shone from the window
                    of the cottage in which Luke Marks lay, watched by his wife and mother.
                Mr. Dawson lifted the latch, and walked into the common room of the little
                    tenement, followed by Robert Audley. It was empty, but a feeble tallow candle,
                    with a broken back and a long, cauliflower-headed wick sputtered upon the table.
                    The sick man lay in the room above.
                “Shall I tell him you are here?” asked Mr. Dawson.
                “Yes, yes, if you please. But be cautious how you tell him, if you think the news
                    likely to agitate him. I am in no hurry. I can wait. You can call me when you
                    think I can safely come up-stairs.”
                The surgeon nodded, and softly ascended the narrow wooden stairs leading to the
                    upper chamber. Mr. Dawson was a good man, and indeed a parish surgeon has need
                    to be good, and tender, and kindly, and gentle, or the wretched patients who
                    have no neatly folded fees of gold and silver
                    to offer, may suffer petty slights and insignificant cruelties, not easily to be
                    proved before a board of well-to-do poor-law guardians, but not the less bitter
                    to bear in the fretful and feverish hours of sickness and pain.
                Robert Audley seated himself in a Windsor chair, by the cold hearth-stone, and
                    stared disconsolately about him. Small as the room was, the corners were dusky
                    and shadowy in the dim light of the cauliflower-headed candle. The faded face of
                    an eight-day clock, which stood opposite Robert Audley, seemed to stare him out
                    of countenance. The awful sounds which can emanate from eight-day clocks after
                    midnight are too generally known to need description. The young man listened in
                    awe-stricken silence to the heavy, monotonous ticking, which sounded as if the
                    clock had been counting out the seconds which yet remained for the dying man,
                    and checking them off with gloomy satisfaction. “Another minute gone! another
                    minute gone! another minute gone!” the clock seemed to say, until Mr. Audley
                    felt inclined to throw his hat at it, in the
                    wild hope of stopping that melancholy and monotonous noise.
                But he was relieved at last by the low voice of the surgeon, who looked down from
                    the top of the little staircase to tell him that Luke Marks was awake and would
                    be glad to see him.
                Robert immediately obeyed this summons. He crept softly up the stairs and took
                    off his hat before he bent his head to enter at the low doorway of the humble
                    rustic chamber. He took off his hat in the presence of this common peasant man
                    because he knew that there was another and a more awful presence hovering about
                    the room, and eager to be admitted.
                Phœbe Marks was sitting at the foot of the bed, with her eyes fixed upon her
                    husband's face. Not with any very tender expression in their pale light, but
                    with a sharp, terrified anxiety, which showed that it was the coming of death
                    itself that she dreaded, rather than the loss of her husband. The old woman was
                    busy at the fire-place, airing linen, and preparing some mess of broth which it
                    was not likely the patient  would ever eat.
                    The sick man lay with his head propped up by pillows, his coarse face deadly
                    pale, and his great hands wandering uneasily about the coverlet. Phœbe had been
                    reading to him, for an open Testament lay amongst the medicine and lotion
                    bottles upon the table near the bed. Every object in the room was neat and
                    orderly, and bore witness of that delicate precision which had always been a
                    distinguishing characteristic of Phœbe.
                The young woman rose as Robert Audley crossed the threshold, and hurried towards
                    him.
                “Let me speak to you for a moment, sir, before you talk to Luke,” she said, in an
                    eager whisper. “Pray let me speak to you first.”
                “What's the gal a sayin', there?” asked the invalid in a subdued roar, which died
                    away hoarsely on his lips. He was feebly savage, even in his weakness. The dull
                    glaze of death was gathering over his eyes, but they still watched Phœbe with a
                    sharp glance of dissatisfaction. “What's she up to there?” he said. “I won't
                    have no plottin' and no hatchin' agen me. I
                    want to speak to Mr. Audley my own self; and whatever I done I'm goin' to answer
                    for. If I done any mischief, I'm a goin' to try and undo it. What's she a
                    sayin'?”
                “She ain't a sayin' nothin', lovey,” answered the old woman, going to the
                    bed-side of her son, who, even when made more interesting than usual by illness,
                    did not seem a very fit subject for this tender appellation.
                “She's only a tellin' the gentleman how bad you've been, my pretty.”
                “What I'm a goin' to tell I'm only a goin' to tell to him, remember,” growled Mr.
                    Marks; “and ketch me a tellin' of it to him if it warn't for what he done for me
                    the other night.”
                “To be sure not, lovey,” answered the old woman, soothingly.
                Her intellect was rather limited in its scope, and she attached no more
                    importance to her son's eager words now, than she had attached to the wild
                    ravings of delirium. That horrible delirium in which Luke had described himself
                    as being dragged through miles of blazing brick and mortar: and flung down wells; and dragged out of deep
                    pits by the hair of the head; and suspended in the air by giant hands that came
                    out of the clouds to pluck him from off the solid earth and hurl him into chaos;
                    with many other wild terrors and delusions which ran riot in his distempered
                    brain.
                Phœbe Marks had drawn Mr. Audley out of the room and onto the narrow landing at
                    the top of the little staircase. This landing was a platform of about three feet
                    square, and it was as much as the two could manage to stand upon it without
                    pushing each other against the whitewashed wall, or backwards down the stairs.
                “Oh, sir, I wanted to speak to you so badly,” Phœbe whispered eagerly; “you know
                    what I told you when I found you safe and well upon the night of the fire?”
                “Yes, yes.”
                “I told you what I suspected; what I think still.”
                “Yes, I remember.”
                “But I never breathed a word of it to anybody 
                    but you, sir; and I think that Luke has forgotten all about that night; I think
                    that what went before the fire has gone clean out of his head altogether. He was
                    tipsy you know when my la—when she came to the Castle; and I think he was so
                    dazed and scared like by the fire that it all went out of his memory. He doesn't
                    suspect what I suspect at any rate, or he'd have spoken of it to anybody and
                    everybody; but he's dreadful spiteful against my lady, for he says if she'd have
                    let him have a place at Brentwood or Chelmsford, this wouldn't have happened. So
                    what I wanted to beg of you, sir, is not to let a word drop before Luke.”
                “Yes, yes, I understand; I will be careful.”
                “My lady has left the Court, I hear, sir?”
                “Yes.”
                “Never to come back, sir?”
                “Never to come back.”
                “But she has not gone where she'll be cruelly treated; where she'll be ill-used?”
                “No, she will be very kindly treated.”
                “I'm glad of that, sir; I beg your pardon for
                    troubling you with the question, sir, but my lady was a kind mistress to me.”
                Luke's voice, husky and feeble, was heard within the little chamber at this
                    period of the conversation, demanding angrily when “that gal would have done
                    jawing,” upon which Phœbe put her finger to her lips, and led Mr. Audley back
                    into the sick room.
                “I don't want you,” said Mr. Marks, decisively, as his wife
                    re-entered the chamber, “I don't want you, you've no call to hear
                    what I've got to say; I only want Mr. Audley, and I wants to speak to him all
                    alone, with none o' your sneakin' listenin' at doors, d'ye hear, so you may go
                    down stairs and keep there till you're wanted; and you may take mother—no,
                    mother may stay, I shall want her presently.”
                The sick man's feeble hand pointed to the door, through which his wife departed
                    very submissively.
                “I've no wish to hear anything, Luke,” she said, “but I hope you won't say
                    anything against those that have been good and generous to you.”
                
                “I shall say what I like,” answered Mr. Marks, fiercely, “and I'm not agoin' to
                    be ordered by you. You ain't the parson, as I've ever heerd of; nor the lawyer
                    neither.”
                The landlord of the Castle inn had undergone no moral transformation by his
                    death-bed sufferings, fierce and rapid as they had been. Perhaps some faint
                    glimmer of a light that had been far off from his life, now struggled feebly
                    through the black obscurities of ignorance that darkened his soul. Perhaps a
                    half angry, half sullen penitence urged him to make some rugged effort to atone
                    for a life that had been selfish and drunken and wicked. Be it how it might, he
                    wiped his white lips, and turning his haggard eyes earnestly upon Robert Audley,
                    pointed to a chair by the bedside.
                “You've made game of me in a general way, Mr. Audley,” he said, presently, “and
                    you've drawed me out, and you've tumbled and tossed me about like in a
                    gentlemanly way, till I was nothink or anythink in your hands; and you've looked
                    me through and through, and turned me  inside
                    out till you thought you knowed as much as I knowed. I'd no particular call to
                    be grateful to you, not before the fire at the Castle t'other night. But I am
                    grateful to you for that. I'm not grateful to folks in a general way, p'raps,
                    because the things as gentlefolks have give me have a'most allus been the very
                    things I didn't want. They've give me soup, and tracks, and flannel, and coals;
                    but, Lord, they've made such a precious noise about it that I'd have been glad
                    to send 'em all back to 'em. But when a gentleman goes and puts his own life in
                    danger to save a drunken brute like me, the drunkenest brute as ever was feels
                    grateful like to that gentleman, and wishes to say before he dies—which he sees
                    in the doctor's face as he ain't got long to live—‘Thank ye, sir, I'm obliged to
                    you.’”
                Luke Marks stretched out his left hand—the right hand had been injured by the
                    fire, and was wrapped in linen—and groped feebly for that of Mr. Robert Audley.
                The young man took the coarse but shrunken hand in both his own, and pressed it
                    cordially.
                
                “I need no thanks, Luke Marks,” he said, “I was very glad to be of service to
                    you.”
                Mr. Marks did not speak immediately. He was lying quietly upon his side, staring
                    reflectingly at Robert Audley.
                “You was oncommon fond of that gent as disappeared at the Court, warn't you,
                    sir,” he said at last.
                Robert started at the mention of his dead friend.
                “You was oncommon fond of this Mr. Talboys, I've heerd say, sir,” repeated Luke.
                “Yes, yes,” answered Robert, rather impatiently, “he was my very dear friend.
                        
                        ”
                    
                “I've heerd the servants at the Court say how you took on when you couldn't find
                    him. I've heerd the landlord of the Sun Inn say how cut up you was when you
                    first missed him. ‘If the two gents had been brothers,’ the landlord said, ‘our
                    gent,’ meanin' you, sir, ‘couldn't have been more cut up when he missed the
                    other.’”
                “Yes, yes, I know, I know,” said Robert;  “pray
                    do not speak any more of this subject; I cannot tell you how much it distresses
                    me.”
                Was he to be haunted for ever by the ghost of his unburied friend? He came here
                    to comfort the sick man, and even here he was pursued by that relentless shadow;
                    even here he was reminded of the secret crime which had darkened his life.
                “Listen to me, Marks,” he said, earnestly; “believe me, that I appreciate your
                    grateful words, and that I am very glad to have been of service to you. But
                    before you say anything more, let me make one most solemn request. If you have
                    sent for me that you may tell me anything of the fate of my lost friend, I
                    entreat you to spare yourself and to spare me that horrible story. You can tell
                    me nothing which I do not already know. The worst you can tell me of the woman
                    who was once in your power, has already been revealed to me by her own lips.
                    Pray then be silent upon this subject; I say again, you can tell me nothing
                    which I do not know.”
                Luke Marks looked musingly at the earnest face of his visitor, and some shadowy
                        expression which was almost like a smile
                    flitted feebly across the sick man's haggard features.
                “I can't tell you nothin' you don't know?” he asked.
                “Nothing.”
                “Then it ain't no good for me to try,” said the invalid, thoughtfully. “Did
                        she tell you?” he asked after a pause.
                “I must beg, Marks, that you will drop the subject,” Robert answered, almost
                    sternly, “I have already told you that I do not wish to hear it spoken of.
                    Whatever discoveries you made, you made your market out of them. Whatever guilty
                    secrets you got possession of, you were paid for keeping silence. You had better
                    keep silence to the end.”
                “Had I?” cried Luke Marks in an eager whisper. “Had I really now better hold my
                    tongue to the last?”
                “I think so, most decidedly. You traded on your secret, and you were paid to keep
                    it. It would be more honest to hold to your bargain, and keep it still.”
                
                “Would it now?” said Mr. Marks with a ghastly grin; “but suppose my lady had one
                    secret and I another. How then?”
                “What do you mean?”
                “Suppose I could have told something all along; and would have told it, perpaps,
                    if I'd been a little better treated; if what was give to me had been give a
                    little more liberal like, and not flung at me as if I was a dog, and was only
                    give it to be kep' from bitin'. Suppose I could have told somethin', and would
                    have told it but for that? How then?”
                It is impossible to describe the ghastliness of the trimuphant grin that lighted
                    up the sick man's haggard face.
                “His mind is wandering,” Robert thought, “I had need be patient with him, poor
                    fellow. It would be strange if I could not be patient with a dying man.”
                Luke Marks lay staring at Mr. Audley for some moments with that triumphant grin
                    upon his face. The old woman, wearied out with watching her dying son, had
                    dropped into a doze, and sat nodding her sharp
                    chin over the handful of fire, upon which the broth that was never to be eaten,
                    still bubbled and simmered.
                Mr. Audley waited very patiently until it should be the sick man's pleasure to
                    speak. Every sound was painfully distincet in that dead hour of the night. The
                    dropping of the ashes on the hearth, the ominous crackling of the burning coals,
                    the slow and ponderous ticking of the sulky clock in the room below, the low
                    moaning of the March wind (which might have been the voice of an English
                    Banshee, screaming her dismal warning to the watchers of the dying), the hoarse
                    breathing of the sick man—every sound held itself apart from all other sounds,
                    and made itself into a separate voice, loud with a gloomy portent in the solemn
                    stillness of the house.
                Robert sat with his face shaded by his hands, thinking what was to become of him
                    now that the secret of his friend's fate had been told, and the dark story of
                    George Talboys and his wicked wife had been finished in the Belgian mad-house.
                    What was to become of him?
                
                He had no claim upon Clara Talboys; for he had resolved to keep the horrible
                    secret that had been told to him. How then could he dare to meet her with that
                    secret held back fom her? How could he ever look into her earnest eyes, and yet
                    withhold the truth? He felt that all power of reservation would fail before the
                    searching glance of those calm brown eyes. If he was indeed to keep this secret
                    he must never see her again. To reveal it would be to embitter her life. Could
                    he, for any selfish motive of his own, tell her this terrible story?—or could he
                    think that if he told her she would suffer her murdered brother to lie unavenged
                    and forgotten in his unhallowed grave?
                Hemmed in on every side by difficulties which seemed utterly insumountable; with
                    the easy temperament which was natural to him embittered by the gloomy burden he
                    had borne so long, Robert Audley looked hopelessly forward to the life which lay
                    before him, and thought that it would have been better for him had he perished
                    among the burning ruins of the Castle Inn.
                
                “Who would have been sorry for me? No one but my poor little Alicia,” he thought,
                    “and hers would have only been an April sorrow. Would Clara Talboys have been
                    sorry? No! She would have only regretted me as a lost link in the mystery of her
                    brother's death. She would only—”
            
            
            
                
                CHAPTER VIII.
                THAT WHICH THE DYING MAN HAD TO TELL.
                HEAVEN knows whither Mr. Audley's thoughts might have wandered had he
                    not been startled by a sudden movement of the sick man, who raised himself up in
                    his bed, and called to his mother.
                The old woman woke up with a jerk, and turned sleepily enough to look at her son.
                “What is it, Luke, deary?” she asked soothingly. “It ain't time for the doctor's
                    stuff yet. Mr. Dawson said as you weren't to have it till two hours after he
                    went away, and he ain't been gone an hour yet.”
                “Who said it was the doctor's stuff I wanted?” cried Mr. Marks, impatiently. “I
                    want to ask you something, mother. Do you remember the seventh of last
                    September?”
                Robert started, and looked eagerly at the sick man. Why did he harp upon this
                    forbidden subject? Why did he insist upon recalling the date of George's murder? The old woman shook her head
                    in feeble confusion of mind.
                “Lord, Luke,” she said, “how can'ee ask me such questions? My memory's been a
                    failin' me this eight or nine year; and I never was one to remember the days of
                    the month, or aught o' that sort. How should a poor workin' woman remember such
                    things.”
                Luke Marks shrugged his shoulders impatiently.
                “You're a good un to do what's asked you, mother,” he said, peevishly. “Didn't I
                    tell you to rememer that day? Didn't I tell you as the time might come when
                    you'd be called upon to bear witness about it, and put upon your Bible oath
                    about it? Didn't I tell you that, mother?”
                The old woman shook her head hopelessly.
                “If you say so, I make no doubt you did, Luke,” she said, with a conciliatory
                    smile; “but I can't call it to mind, lovey. My memory's been failin' me this
                    nine yaer, sir,” she added, turning to Robert Audley, “and I'm but a poor
                    crittur.”
                Mr. Audley laid his hand upon the sick man's arm.
                
                “Marks,” he said, “I tell you again, you have no cause to worry yourself about
                    this matter. I ask you no questions, I have no wish to hear anything.”
                “But suppose I want to tell somethin',” cried Luke, with feverish energy,
                    “suppose I feel that I can't die with a secret on my mind, and have asked to see
                    you on purpose that I might tell you; Suppose that, and you'll suppose nothing
                    but the truth. I'd have been burnt alive before I'd have told her,”
                    he spoke these words between his set teeth, and scowled savagely as he uttered
                    them. “I'd have been burnt alive first. I made her pay for her pretty insolent
                    ways; I made her pay for her airs and graces; I'd never have told her—never,
                    never! I had my power over her, and I kept it; I had my secret, and I was paid
                    for it; and there wasn't a petty slight as she ever put upon me or mine that I
                    didn't pay her out for twenty times over!”
                “Marks, Marks, for heaven's sake be calm,” said Robert, earnestly; “what are you
                    talking of? What is it that you could have told?”
                
                “I'm agoin' to tell you,” answered Luke, wiping his dry lips. “Give us a drink,
                    mother.”
                The old woman poured out some cooling drink into a mug, and carried it to her
                    son.
                He drank it in an eager hurry, as if he felt that the brief remainder of his life
                    must be a race with the pitiless pedestrian, Time.
                “Stop where you are,” he said to his mother, pointing to a chair at the foot of
                    the bed.
                The old woman obeyed, and seated herself meekly opposite to Mr. Audley. She took
                    out her spectacle case, polished her spectacles, put them on and beamed placidly
                    upon her son, as if she cherished some faint hope that her memory might be
                    assisted by this process.
                “I'll ask you another question, mother,” said Luke, “and I think it'll be strange
                    if you can't answer it. Do you remember when I was at work upon Atkinson's farm;
                    before I was maried, you know, and when I was livin' down here along of you?”
                “Yes, yes,” Mrs. Marks answered, nodding triumphantly, “I remember that, my dear.
                        It were last fall, just about as the
                    apples was bein' gathered in the orchard across our lane, and about the time as
                    you had your new sprigged wesket. I remember, Luke, I remember.”
                Mr. Audley wondered where all this was to lead to, and how long he would have to
                    sit by the sick man's bed hearing a conversation that had no meaning to him.
                “If you remember that much, maybe you'll remember more, mother,” said Luke. “Can
                    you call to mind my bringing some one home here one night, while Atkinsons was
                    stackin' the last o' their corn?”
                Once more Mr. Audley started violently, and this time he looked up earnestly at
                    the face of the speaker, and listened, with a strange, breathless interest, that
                    he scarcely understood himself, to what Luke Marks was saying.
                “I rek'lect your bringin' home Phœbe,” the old woman answered with great
                    animation. “I rek'lect your bringin' Phœbe home to take a cup o' tea, or a
                    little snack o' supper, a mort o' times.”
                
                “Bother Phœbe,” cried Mr. Marks, “whose a talkin' of Phœbe? what's Phœbe that
                    anybody should go to put theirselves out about her? Do you remember my bringin'
                    home a gentleman, arter ten o'clock one September night; a gentleman as was wet
                    through to the skin, and was covered with mud and slush, and green slime and
                    black muck, from the crown of his head to the sole of his foot, and had his arm
                    broke, and his shoulder swelled up awful; and was such a objeck that nobody
                    would ha' knowed him. A gentleman as had to have his clothes cut off him in some
                    places, and as sat by the kitchen fire, starin' at the coals as if he'd gone mad
                    or stupid-like, and didn't know where he was, or who he was: and as had to be
                    cared for like a baby, and dressed and dried, and washed, and fed with spoonfuls
                    of brandy, that had to be forced between his locked teeth, before any life could
                    be got into him? Do you remember that, mother?”
                The old woman nodded, and muttered something, to the effect that she remembered
                        all these circumstances most vividly, now
                    that Luke happened to mention them.
                Robert Audley uttered a wild cry, and fell down upon his knees by the side of the
                    sick man's bed.
                “My God!” he ejaculated, “I thank Thee for Thy wondrous mercies. George Talboys
                    is alive!”
                “Wait a bit,” said Mr. Marks, “don't you be too fast. Mother, give us down that
                    tin-box on the shelf over against the chest of drawers, will you?”
                The old woman obeyed, and after fumbling amongst broken tea-cups and milk-jugs,
                    lidless wooden cotton-boxes, and a miscellaneous litter of rags and crockery,
                    produced a tin snuff-box with a sliding lid; a shabby, dirty looking box enough.
                Robert Audley still knelt by the bed-side with his face hidden by his clasped
                    hands. Luke Marks opened the tin box.
                “There ain't no money in it, more's the pity,” he said, “or if there had been it
                    wouldn't have been let stop very long. But there's summat in it that perhaps
                    you'll think quite as vallible as money, and that's what I'm goin' to give you as a proof that a drunken brute can feel
                    thankful to them as is kind to him.”
                He took out two folded papers, which he gave into Robert Audley's hands.
                They were two leaves torn out of a pocket-book, and they were written upon in
                    pencil, and in a hand-writing that was quite strange to Mr. Audley. A cramped,
                    stiff and yet scrawling hand, such as some ploughman might have written.
                “I don't know this writing,” Robert said, as he eagerly unfolded the first of the
                    two papers. “What has this to do with my friend? Why do you show me these?”
                “Suppose you read 'em first,” said Mr. Marks, “and ask me questions about 'em
                    afterwards.”
                The first paper which Robert Audley had unfolded contained the following lines,
                    written in that cramped, yet scrawling hand which was so strange to him.
                “My dear friend,—I write to you in such utter confusion of mind as perhaps no man
                    ever before suffered. I cannot tell you what has happened  to me, I can only tell you that something has
                    happened which will drive me from England, a broken-hearted man, to seek some
                    corner of the earth in which I may live and die unknown and forgotten. I can
                    only ask you to forget me. If your friendship could have done me any good, I
                    would have appealed to it. If your counsel could have been of any help to me, I
                    would have confided in you. But neither friendship nor counsel can help me; and
                    all I can say to you is this, God bless you for the past, and teach you to
                    forget me, in the future. G.T.”
                The second paper was addressed to another person, and its contents were briefer
                    than those of the first.
                “Helen,—May God pity and forgive you for that which you have done to-day, as
                    truly as I do. Rest in peace. You shall never hear of me again; to you and to
                    the world, I shall henceforth be that which you wished me to be to-day. You need
                    fear no molestation from me; I leave England, never to return. “G. T.”
                Robert Audley sat staring at these lines in 
                    hopeless bewilderment. They were not in his friend's familiar hand; and yet they
                    purported to be written by him, and were signed with his initials.
                He looked scrutinisingly at the face of Luke Marks, thinking that perhaps some
                    trick was being played upon him.
                “This was not written by George Talboys,” he said.
                “It was,” answered Luke Marks, “it was written by Mr. Talboys, every line of it;
                    he wrote it with his own hand; but it was his left hand, for he could'nt use his
                    right because of his broken arm.”
                Robert Audley looked up suddenly, and tne shadow of suspicion passed away from
                    his face.
                “I understand,” he said, “I understand. Tell me all; tell me how it was that my
                    poor friend was saved.”
                He could scarcely realise to himself yet that what he had heard could be true. He
                    could scarcely believe that this friend whom he had so bitterely regretted might
                    still clasp him by the hand in a happy future, when the darkness of the past should have cleared away. He was dazed
                    and dewildered at first, and not able to understand this new hope which had
                    dawned so suddenly upon him.
                “Tell me all,” he cried, “for mercy's sake tell me everything, and let me try to
                    understand it if I can.”
                “I was at work up at Atkinson's farm last September,” said Luke Marks, “helpin'
                    to stack the last o' the corn, and as the nighest way from the farm to mother's
                    cottage was through the meadows at the back o' the Court, I used to come that
                    way; and Phœbe used to stand at the gate in the garden wall beyond the
                    lime-walk, sometimes, to have a chat with me, knowin' my time o' comin' home.
                    Sometimes she wouldn't be there, and sometimes I've leapt the dry moat as parts
                    the kitchen gardens from the meadows alongside of 'em, and have dropped in at
                    the servants' hall to have a glass of ale or a bit o' supper, as it might be.
                “I don't know what Phœbe was a doin' upon the evenin' of the seventh o'
                    September—I rek'lect the date because Farmer Atkinson paid me my wages all of a lump on that day, and I'd had to sign
                    a bit of a receipt for the money he give me—I don't know what she was a doin',
                    but she warn't at the gate agen the lime-walk, so I went round to the other side
                    o' the gardens and jumped across the dry ditch; for I wanted partic'ler to see
                    her that night, as I was goin' away to work upon a farm beyond Chelmsford the
                    next day. Audley church clock struck nine as I was crossin' the meadows between
                    Atkinson's and the Court, and it must have been about a quarter past nine when I
                    got into the kitchen garden.
                “I crossed the garden, and went into the lime-walk; the nighest way to the
                    servants' hall took me through the shrubbery and past the dry well. It was a
                    dark night, but I knew my way well enough about the old place, and the light in
                    the window of the servants' hall looked red and comfortable through the
                    darkness. I was close against the mouth of the dry well when I heard a sound
                    that made my blood creep. It was a groan; a groan of a man in pain, as was lyin'
                    somewhere hid among the bushes. I warn't afraid of ghosts, and I warn't afraid of anythink in a general way, but there was
                    somethin' in hearin' this groan as chilled me to the very heart, and for a
                    minute I was struck all of a heap and didn't know what to do. But I heard the
                    groan again, and then I began to search amongst the bushes. I found a man lyin'
                    hidden under a lot o' laurels, and I thought at first he was up to no good, and
                    I was a goin' to collar him to take him to the house, when he caught me by the
                    wrist without gettin' up from the ground, but lookin' at me very earnest, as I
                    could see by the way his face was turned towards me in the darkness, and asked
                    me who I was, and what I was, and what I had to do with the folks at the Court.
                “There was somethin' in the way he spoke that told me he was a gentleman, though
                    I didn't know him from Adam, and couldn't see his face; and I answered his
                    questions civil.
                “‘I want to get away from this place,’ he said, ‘without bein' seen by any livin'
                    creetur, remember that. I've been lyin' here ever since four o'clock to-day, and I'm half dead, but I want to
                    get away without bein' seen, mind that.’
                “I told him that was easy enough, but I began to think my first thoughts of him
                    might have been right enough after all, and that he couldn't have been up to no
                    good to want to sneak away so precious quiet.
                “‘Can you take me to any place where I can get a change of dry clothes,’ he says,
                    ‘without half a dozen people knowin' it.’
                “He'd got up into a sittin' attitude by this time, and I could see that his right
                    arm hung loose by his side, and that he was in pain.
                “I pointed to his arm, and asked him what was the matter with it; but he only
                    answered very quiet like, ‘Broken, my lad, broken. Not that that's much,’ he
                    says in another tone, speaking to himself like more, than to me. ‘There's broken
                    hearts as well as broken limbs, and they're not so easy mended.’
                “I told him I could take him to mother's cottage, and that he could dry his
                    clothes there and welcome.
                
                “‘Can your mother keep a secret?’ he asked.
                “‘Well she could keep one well enough, if she could remember it,’ I told him;
                    ‘but you might tell her all the secrets of the Freemasons, and Foresters, and
                    Buffalers, and Oddfellers as ever was, to-night; and she'd have forgotten all
                    about 'em to-morrow mornin'.’
                “He seemed satisfied with this, and he got himself up by holdin' on to me, for it
                    seemed as if his limbs was so cramped, the use of 'em was almost gone. I felt as
                    he came agen me, that his clothes was wet and mucky.
                “‘You haven't been and fell into the fish-pond, have you, sir?’ I asked.
                “He made no answer to my question; he didn't seem even to have heard it. I could
                    see now he was standin' upon his feet that he was a tall, fine made man, a head
                    and shoulders higher than me.
                “‘Take me to your mother's cottage,’ he said, ‘and get me some dry clothes if you
                    can; I'll pay you well for your trouble.’
                “I knew that the key was mostly left in the
                    wooden gate in the garden wall, so I led him that way. He could scarcely walk at
                    first, and it was only by leanin' heavily upon my shoulder that he managed to
                    get along. I got him through the gate, leavin' it unlocked behind me, and
                    trustin' to the chance of that not bein' noticed by the under-gardener, who had
                    the care of the key, and was a careless chap enough. I took him across the
                    meadows, and brought him up here, still keepin' away from the village, and in
                    the fields, where there wasn't a creature to see us at that time o' night; and
                    so I got him into the room downstairs, where mother was a sittin' over the fire
                    gettin' my bit o' supper ready for me.
                “I put the strange chap in a chair agen the fire, and then for the first time I
                    had a good look at him. I never see anybody in such a state before. He was all
                    over green damp and muck, and his hands was scratched and cut to pieces. I got
                    his clothes off him how I could, for he was like a child in my hands, and sat
                    starin' at the fire as helpless as any baby; only givin' a long heavy sigh now
                    and then, as if his heart was a goin' to bust.
                    He didn't seem to know where he was; he didn't seem to hear us nor to see us; he
                    only sat starin' straight before him, with his poor broken arm hanging loose by
                    his side.
                “Thinkin' he was in a very bad way, I wanted to go and fetch Mr. Dawson to him,
                    and I said somethin' about it to mother. But queer as he seemed in his mind, he
                    looked up quickly, as sharp as possible, and said No, No; nobody was to know of
                    his bein' there except us two.
                “I asked if I should run and fetch a drop of brandy; and he said, yes, I might do
                    that. It was close upon eleven o'clock when I went into the public-house, and it
                    was strikin' eleven as I got back home.
                “It was a good thing I'd fetched the brandy, for he was shiverin' awful, and the
                    edge of the mug rattled against his teeth. I had to force the spirit between
                    'em, they were so tight locked, before he could drink it. At last he dropped
                    into a kind of a dose, a stupid sort of sleep, and began to nod over the fire,
                    so I ran and got a blanket and wrapped him in it, and got him to lie down
                        upon the press bedstead in the room under
                    this. I sent mother to bed, and I sat by the fire and watched him, and kep' the
                    fire up till it was just upon daybreak, when he 'woke up all of a sudden with a
                    start, and said he must go, directly minute.
                “I begged him not to think of such a thing, and told him he warn't fit to move
                    for ever so long; but he said he must go, and he got up, and though he staggered
                    like, and at first could hardly stand steady two minutes together, he wouldn't
                    be beat, and he got me to dress him in his clothes as I'd dried and cleaned as
                    well as I could while he laid asleep. I did manage it at last, but the clothes
                    was awful spoiled, and he looked a dreadful objeck, with his pale face and a
                    great cut on his forehead that I'd washed and tied up with a handkercher. He
                    could only get his coat on by buttoning it on round his neck, for he couldn't
                    put a sleeve upon his broken arm. But he held out agen everything, though he
                    groaned every now and then; and what with the scratches and bruises on his
                    hands, and the cut upon his forehead and his stiff limbs and broken arm he'd
                    plenty of call to groan; and by the time it
                    was broad daylight he was dressed and ready to go.
                “‘What's the nearest town to this upon the London road?’ he asked me.
                “I told him as the nighest town was Brentwood.
                “‘Very well then,’ he says, ‘if you'll go with me to Brentwood, and take me to
                    some surgeon as'll set my arm, I'll give you a five pound note for that and all
                    your other trouble.’
                “I told him that I was ready and willin' to do anything as he wanted done; and
                    asked him if I shouldn't go and see if I could borrow a cart from some of the
                    neighbors to drive him over in, for I told him it was a good six miles' walk.
                “He shook his head. No, no, no, he said, he didn't want anybody to know anything
                    about him; he'd rather walk it.
                “He did walk it; and he walked like a good un too; though I know as every step he
                    took o' them six mile he took in pain; but he held out as he'd held out before;
                    I never see such a chap to hold out in all my blessed life. He had to stop
                    sometimes and lean agen a gateway to get his
                    breath; but he held out still, till at last we got into Brentwood, and then he
                    says, ‘Take me to the nighest surgeon's,’ and I took him, and I waited while he
                    had his arm set in splints, which took a precious long time. The surgeon wanted
                    him to stay in Brentwood till he was better, but he said it warn't to be heard
                    on. he must get up to London without a minute's loss of time; so the surgeon
                    made him as comfortable as he could, considerin', and tied up his arm in a
                    sling.”
                Robert Audley started. A circumstance connected with his visit to Liverpool
                    flashed suddenly back upon his memory. He remembered the clerk who had called
                    him back to say that there was a passenger who took his berth on board the
                        Victoria Regia within an hour or so of the vessel's sailing; a
                    young man with his arm in a sling, who had called himself by some common name,
                    which Robert had forgotten.
                “When his arm was dressed,” continued Luke, “he says to the surgeon, can you give
                    me a pencil to write something before I go away. The surgeon smiles and shakes
                    his head, ‘You'll never be able to write with
                    that there hand to-day,’ he says, pointin' to the arm as had just been dressed.
                    ‘P'raps not,’ the young chap answers quiet enough, ‘but I can write with the
                    other.’ ‘Can't I write it for you?’ says the surgeon. ‘No thank
                    you,’ answers the other; ‘what I've got to write is private. If you can give me
                    a couple of envelopes I'll be obliged to you.’
                “With that the surgeon goes to fetch the envelopes, and the young chap takes a
                    pocket-book out of his coat pocket with his left hand; the cover was wet and
                    dirty, but the inside was clean enough, and he tears out a couple of leaves and
                    begins to write upon 'em as you see; and he writes dreadful awk'ard with his
                    left hand, and he writes slow, but he contrives to finish what you see, and then
                    he puts the two bits o' writin' into the envelopes as the surgeon brings him,
                    and he seals 'em up, and he puts a pencil cross upon one of 'em, and nothin' on
                    the other; and then he pays the surgeon for his trouble; and the surgeon says,
                    ain't there nothin' more he can do for him, and can't he persuade him to stay in 
                        Brent-
                        Brentwood
                     wood till his arm's better; but he
                    says no, no, it ain't possible; and then he says to me, ‘Come along o' me to the
                    railway station and I'll give you what I've promised.’
                “So I went to the station with him. We was in time to catch the train as stops at
                    Brentwood at half-after eight, and we had five minutes to spare. So he takes me
                    into a corner of the platform, and he says: ‘I wants you to deliver these here
                    letters for me,’ which I told him I was willin'. ‘Very well, then,’ he says,
                    ‘look here, you know Audley Court?‘ ’Yes,’ I says, ‘I ought to, for my
                    sweetheart lives lady's-maid there.’ ‘Whose lady's-maid?’ he says. So I tells
                    him, ‘My lady's, the new lady what was governess at Mr. Dawson's.’ ‘Very well,
                    then,’ he says, ‘this here letter with the cross upon the envelope is for Lady
                    Audley, but you're to be sure to give it into her own hands; and remember to
                    take care as nobody sees you give it.’ I promises to do this, and he hands me
                    the first letter. And then he says, ‘Do you know Mr. Audley, as is nevy to Sir
                    Michael?’ and I said, ‘Yes, I've heerd tell on
                    him, and I'd heerd as he was a reg'lar swell, but affable and free-spoken’ (for
                    I had heerd tell on you, you know),” Luke added parenthetically. “‘Now look
                    here,’ the young chap says, ‘You're to give this other letter to Mr. Robert
                    Audley, whose a stayin' at the Sun Inn, in the village;’ and I tells him it's
                    all right, as I've know'd the Sun ever since I was a baby. So then he gives me
                    the second letter, what's got nothink wrote upon the envelope, and he gives me a
                    five-pound note, accordin' to promise; and then he says ‘Good-day, and thank you
                    for all your trouble,’ and he gets into a second-class carriage, and the last I
                    sees of him is a face as white as a sheet of writin' paper, and a great patch of
                    stickin' plaster criss-crossed upon his forehead.”
                “Poor George! poor George!”
                “I went back to Audley, and I went straight to the Sun Inn, and asked for you,
                    meanin' to deliver both letters faithful, so help me God, then; but the landlord
                    told me as you'd started off that mornin' for London, and he didn't know when
                    you'd come back, and he didn't know the name
                    o' the place where you lived in London, though he said he thought it was in one
                    o' them Law Courts, such as Westminster Hall or Doctors Commons, or somethin'
                    like that. So what was I to do? I couldn't send the letter by post, not knowin'
                    where to direct to, and I couldn't give it into your own hands, and I'd been
                    told partikler not to let anybody else know of it; so I'd nothin' to do but to
                    wait and see if you come back, and bide my time for givin' of it to you.
                “I thought I'd go over to the Court in the evenin' and see Phœbe, and find out
                    from her when there'd be a chance of seein' her lady, for I know'd she could
                    manage it if she liked. So I didn't go to work that day, though I ought to ha'
                    done, and I lounged and idled about until it was nigh upon dusk, and then I goes
                    down to the meadows behind the Court, and there I finds Phœbe sure enough
                    waitin' agen the wooden door in the wall, on the look-out for me.
                “Well I went into the shrubbery with her, and I was a turnin' towards the old
                    well, for we'd ben in the habit of sittin' upon the brickwork about it often of a summer's evening, but Phœbe comes
                    over as pale as a ghost all of a sudden, and says, ‘Not there! not there!’ So I
                    asks, ‘Why not there?’ and she answers, ‘as she don't know, but she feels
                    nervous like this evenin', and she's heerd as the well's haunted. I tells her as
                    that's all a pack o'gammon, but she says, whether it is, or whether it isn't,
                    she won't go agen the well. So we goes back to the gate, and she leans upon it
                    talkin' to me.
                “I hadn't been talkin' to her long before I see there was somethink wrong with
                    her, and I told her as much.
                “‘Well,’ she says, ‘I ain't quite myself this evenin', for I had a upset,
                    yesterday, and I ain't got over it yet.’”
                “‘A upset,’ I says. ‘You had a quarrel with your missus, I suppose.”
                “She didn't answer me directly, but she smiled the queerest smile as ever I see,
                    and presently she says,
                “‘No, Luke, it weren't nothin' o' that kind; and what's more, nobody could be
                    friendlier towards me than my lady; I think
                    she'd do anythink for me a'most, and I think whether it was a bit o' farming
                    stock and furniture or such like, or whether it was the goodwill of a
                    public-house, she wouldn't refuse me anythink as I asked her.’
                “I couldn't make out this, for it was only a few days before, as she'd told me
                    her missus was selfish and extravagant, and we might wait a long time before we
                    could get what we wanted from her.
                “So I says to her, ‘Why, this is rather sudden like, Phœbe,’ and she says, ‘Yes,
                    it is sudden;’ and she smiles again, just the same sort of smile as before. Upon
                    that I turns round upon her sharp, and says,
                “‘I'll tell you what it is, my gal, you're a keepin' somethink from me; somethink
                    you've been told, or somethink you've found out; and if you think you're a goin'
                    to try that game on with me, you'll find you're very much mistaken; and so I
                    give you warnin.’
                “But she laughed it off like, and says, ‘Lor, Luke, what could have put such
                    fancies into your head?’
                
                “I says, ‘If I've got fancies in my head it's you that have put 'em there; and I
                    tell you once more I won't stand no nosense, and if you want to keep secrets
                    from the man as you're a goin' to marry, you'd better marry somebody else and
                    keep secrets from him, for you won't do it from me, and so I tell you.’
                “Upon which she begins to whimper a bit, but I takes no notice o' that, but
                    begins to question her about my lady. I had the letter marked with the pencil
                    cross in my pocket, and I wanted to find out how I was to deliver it.
                “‘Perhaps other people can keep secrets as well as you,’ I said, ‘and perhaps
                    other people can make friends as well as you. There were a gentleman came here
                    to see your missus yesterday, warn't there; a tall young gentleman with a brown
                    beard?’
                “Instead of answering of me like a Christian, my cousin Phœbe bursts out a
                    cryin', and wrings her hands, and goes on awful, until I'm dashed if I can make
                    out what she's up to.
                “But little by little I got it out of her, for I wouldn't stand no nonsense; and she told me how she'd been sittin' at work at
                    the window of her little room, which was at the top of the house, right up in
                    one of the gables, and overlooked the lime-walk and the shrubbery and the well,
                    when she see my lady walkin' with a strange gentleman, and they walked together
                    for a long time, until by-and-by they—”
                “Stop,” cried Robert Audley, “I know the rest.”
                “Well Phœbe told me all about what she see, and she told me as she'd met her lady
                    almost directly afterwards, and somethin' had passed between 'em, not much, but
                    enough to let her missus know that the servant what she looked down upon had
                    found out that as would put her in that servant's power to the last day of her
                    life.
                “‘And she is in my power, Luke,’ says Phœbe, ‘and she'll do anythin' in the world
                    for us if we keep her secret.’
                “So you see both my Lady Audley and her maid thought as the gentleman as I'd seen
                    safe off by the London train was lyin' dead at the bottom of the well. If I was
                    to give the letter they'd find out the
                    contrairy of this, and if I was to give the letter, Phœbe and me would lose the
                    chance of gettin' started in life by her missus.
                “So I kep' the letter and kep' my secret, and my lady kep' hern. But I thought if
                    she acted liberal by me, and gave me the money I wanted, free like, I'd tell her
                    everythink and make her mind easy.
                “But she didn't. Whatever she give me she throwed me as if I'd been a dog.
                    Whenever she spoke to me, she spoke as she might have spoken to a dog; and a dog
                    she couldn't abide the sight on. There was no word in her mouth that was too bad
                    for me. There was no toss as she could give her head that was too proud and
                    scornful for me; and my blood biled agen her, and I kep' my secret, and let her
                    keep hern. I opened the two letters and I read 'em, but I couldn't make much
                    sense out of 'em, and I hid 'em away; and not a creature but me has seen 'em
                    until this night.”
                Luke Marks had finished his story, and lay quietly enough, exhausted by having
                    talked so long. He watched Robert Audley's
                    face, fully expecting some reproof, some grave lecture; for he had a vague
                    consciousness that he had done wrong.
                But Robert did not lecture him; he had no fancy for an office which he did not
                    think himself fitted to perform.
                “The clergyman will talk to him and comfort him when he comes to-morrow morning,”
                    Mr. Audley thought; “and if the poor creature needs a sermon it will come better
                    from his lips than from mine. What should I say to him? His sin has recoiled
                    upon his own head; for had my lady's mind been set at ease, the Castle Inn would
                    not have been burned down. Who shall dare to try and order his own life after
                    this? who can fail to recognise God's hand in this strange story?”
                He thought very humbly of the deductions he had made and acted upon. He
                    remembered how implicitly he had trusted in the pitiful light of his own reason;
                    but he was comforted by remembering also that he had tried simply and
                        honestly to do his duty; faithfully alike
                    to the dead and to the living.
                Robert Audley sat until long after daybreak with the sick man, who fell into a
                    heavy slumber a short time after he had finished his story. The old woman had
                    dozed comfortably throughout her son's confession. Phœbe was asleep upon the
                    press bedstead in the room below; so the young barrister was the only watcher.
                He could not sleep; he could only think of the story he had heard. He could only
                    thank God for his friend's preservation, and pray that he might be able to go to
                    Clara Talboys, and say, “Your brother still lives, and has been found.”
                Phœbe came up-stairs at eight o'clock, ready to take her place at the sick bed,
                    and Robert Audley went away to get a bed at the Sun Inn
                        ,
                        .
                     He had had no more comfortable rest than such odd snatches of sleep as
                    are to be got in railway carriages and on board steamers, during the last three
                    nights, and he was completely worn out. It was nearly dusk when he awoke out of
                    a long dreamless slumber, and dressed himself
                    before dining in the little sitting-room, in which he and George had sat
                    together a few months before.
                The landlord waited upon him at dinner, and told him that Luke Marks had died at
                    five o'clock that afternoon. “He went off rather sudden like,” the man said,
                    “but very quiet.”
                Robert Audley wrote a long letter that evening, addressed to Madame Taylor, care
                    of Monsieur Val, Villebrumeuse; a long letter in which he told the wretched
                    woman who had borne so many names and was to bear a false one for the rest of
                    her life, the story that the dying man had told him.
                “It may be some comfort to her to hear that her husband did not perish in his
                    youth by her wicked hand,” he thought, “if her selfish soul can hold any
                    sentiment of pity or sorrow for others.”
            
            
            
                
                CHAPTER IX.
                RESTORED.
                CLARA TALBOYS returned to Dorsetshire to tell her father that his only
                    son had sailed for Australia upon the 9th of September, and that it was most
                    probable he yet lived, and would return to claim the forgiveness of the father
                    he had never very particularly injured; except in the matter of having made that
                    terrible matrimonial mistake which had exercised so fatal an influence upon his
                    youth.
                Mr. Harcourt Talboys was fairly nonplussed. Junius Brutus had never been placed
                    in such a position as this, and seeing no way of getting out of this dilemma, by
                    acting after his favourite model, Mr. Talboys was fain to be natural for once in
                    his life, and to confess that he had suffered much uneasiness and pain of mind
                    about his only son, since his conversation with Robert Audley; and that he would be heartily glad to take his poor boy
                    to his arms, whenever he should return to England. But when was he likely to
                    return? and how was he to be communicated with? That was the question. Robert
                    Audley remembered the advertisements which he had caused to be inserted in the
                    Melbourne and Sydney papers. If George had re-entered either city alive, how was
                    it that no notice had ever been taken of that advertisement? Was it likely that
                    his friend would be indifferent to his uneasiness? But then, again, it was just
                    possible that George Talboys had not happened to see this advertisement; and, as
                    he had travelled under a feigned name, neither his fellow passengers nor the
                    captain of the vessel would have been able to identify him with the person
                    advertised for. What was to be done? Must they wait patiently till George grew
                    weary of his exile, and returned to the friends who loved him; or were there any
                    means to be taken by which his return might be hastened? Robert Audley was at
                    fault! Perhaps in the unspeakable relief of mind which he had experienced upon the discovery of his friend's escape, he
                    was unable to look beyond the one fact of that providential preservation.
                In this state of mind he went down to Dorsetshire to pay a visit to Mr. Talboys,
                    who had given way to a perfect torrent of generous impulses, and had gone so far
                    as to invite his son's friend to share the prim hospitality of the square,
                    red-brick mansion.
                Mr. Talboys had only two sentiments upon the subject of George's story; one was a
                    natural relief and happiness in the thought that his son had been saved; the
                    other was an earnest wish that my lady had been his wife, and that
                    he might thus have had the pleasure of making a signal example of her.
                “It is not for me to blame you, Mr. Audley,” he said, “for having smuggled this
                    guilty woman out of the reach of justice, and thus, as I may say, paltered with
                    the laws of your country? I can only remark that, had the lady fallen into
                        my hands, she would have been very differently treated.”
                
                It was in the middle of April when Robert Audley found himself once more under
                    those black fir-trees beneath which his wandering thoughts had so often stayed
                    since his first meeting with Clara Talboys. There were primroses and early
                    violets in the hedges now, and the streams, which, upon his first visit, had
                    been hard and frost-bound as the heart of Harcourt Talboys, had thawed, like
                    that gentleman, and ran meirrily under the blackthorn bushes in the capricious
                    April sunshine.
                Robert had a prim bed-room, and an uncompromising dressing-room allotted to him
                    in the square house, and he woke every morning upon a metallic spring mattress
                    which always gave him the idea of sleeping upon some musical instrument, to see
                    the sun glaring in upon him through the square white blinds, and lighting up the
                    two lacquered urns which adorned the foot of his blue iron bedstead, until they
                    blazed like two tiny brazen lamps of the Roman period.
                A visit to Mr. Harcourt Talboys was perhaps rather more like a return to boyhood
                    and 
                        board-
                        boarding
                     ing-school than is quite consonant
                    with the Sybarite view of human enjoyment. There were the same curtainless
                    windows, and narrow strips of bedside carpet; the same clanging bell in the
                    early morning; the same uncompromising servants filing into a long dining-room
                    to assist at perhaps the same prayers; and there was altogether rather too much
                    of the “private academy for the sons of gentlemen preparing for the church and
                    the army,” in the Talboys establishment.
                But if the square-built, red-brick mansion had been the palace of Armida, and the
                    prim, linen-jacketed man represented by a legion of houris, Robert Audley could
                    have scarcely seemed better satisfied with his entertainment.
                He awoke to the sound of the clanging bell, and made his toilet in the cruel
                    early morning sunshine, which is bright without being cheerful, and makes you
                    wink without making you warm. He emulated Mr. Harcourt Talboys in the matter of
                    shower-baths and cold water, and emerged prim and blue as that gentleman
                    himself, as the clock in the hall struck
                    seven, to join the master of the house in his ante-breakfast constitutional
                    under the fir-trees in the stiff plantation.
                But there was generally a third person who assisted in these constitutional
                    promenades, and that third person was Clara Talboys, who used to walk by her
                    father's side, more beautiful than the morning,—for that was sometimes dull and
                    cloudy, while she was always fresh and bright,—in a broad-leaved straw hat and
                    flapping blue ribbons, one quarter of an inch of which Mr. Audley would have
                    esteemed a prouder decoration than ever adorned a favoured creature's
                    button-hole.
                Absent George was often talked of in these morning walks, and Robert Audley
                    seldom took his place at the long breakfast table without remembering the
                    morning upon which he had first sat in that room, telling his friend's story,
                    and hating Clara Talboys for her cold self-possession. He knew her better now,
                    and knew that she was one of the most noble and beautiful of women. But had she
                    yet discovered how dear she was to her
                    brother's friend? Robert used to wonder sometimes if it were possible that he
                    had not yet betrayed himself; if it could be possible that the love which made
                    her very presece a magical influence to him, had failed to make itself known by
                    some inadvertent glance, by some unconscious tremble in the voice, that seemed
                    to take another tone when he addressed her.
                The dull life in the square-built house was only relieved now and then by a stiff
                    dinner party, at which a few country people assembled to bore each other by
                    mutual consent; and by occasional inroads of morning callers, who took the
                    drawing-room by storm, and held it for about an hour, to the utter discomfiture
                    of Mr. Audley. That gentleman nourished sentiments of peculiar malevolence upon
                    the subject of fresh-coloured young country squires, who generally appeared with
                    their mammas and sisters upon these occasions.
                It was impossible, of course, that these young men could come within the radius
                    of Clara's brown eyes without falling wildly in love with her; and it was
                    impossible, therefore, that Robert Audley
                    could do otherwise than furiously hate them as impertinent rivals and
                    interlopers. He was jealous of anybody and everybody who came into the region
                    inhabited by those calm brown eyes; jealous of a fat widower of eight-and-forty;
                    of an elderly baronet with purple whiskers; of the old women about the
                    neighbourhood whom Clara Talboys visited and ministered to; of the flowres in
                    the conservatory, which occuped so much of her time and distracted her attention
                    from him.
                At first they were very ceremonious towards each other, and were only familiar
                    and friendly upon the one subject of George's adventures; but, little by little,
                    a pleasant intimacy arose between them, and before the first three weeks of
                    Robert's visit had elapsed, Miss Talboys made him happy, by taking him seriously
                    in hand and lecturing him on the purposeless life he had led so long, and the
                    little use he had made of the talents and opportunities that had been given to
                    him.
                How pleasant it was to be lectured by the woman he loved! How pleasant it was
                        to humiliate himself and depreciate
                    himself before her! How delightful it was to get such splendid opportunities of
                    hinting that if his life had been sanctified by an object, he might indeed have
                    striven to be something better than an idle flaneur upon the smooth pathways that have no particular goal; that,
                    blessed by the ties which would have given a solemn purpose to every hour of his
                    existence, he might indeed have fought the battle earnestly and unflinchingly.
                    He generally wound up with a gloomy insinuation to the effect that it was only
                    likely he would drop quietly over the edge of the Temple Gardens some afternoon,
                    when the river was bright and placid in the low sunlight, and the little
                    children had gone home to their tea.
                “Do you think I can read French novels and smoke mild Turkish until I am
                    three-score-and-ten, Miss Talboys?” he asked. “Do you think there will not come
                    a day in which my meerschaums will be foul, and the French novels more than
                    usually stupid, and life altogether such a
                    dismal monotony that I shall want to get rid of it somehow or other?”
                I am sorry to say that while this hypocritical young barrister was holding forth
                    in this despondent way, he had mentally sold up his bachelor possessions,
                    including all Michel Levy's publications and half a dozen solid silver-mounted
                    meerschaums, pensioned off Mrs. Malony, and laid out two or three thousand
                    pounds in the purchase of a few acres of verdant shrubbery and sloping lawn,
                    embosomed amid which there should be a fairy cottage ornée, whose rustic casements should glimmer out of bowers of
                    myrtle and clematis to see themselves reflected in the purple bosom of a lake.
                Of course Clara Talboys was far from discovering the drift of these melancholy
                    lamentations. She recommended Mr. Audley to read hard and think seriously of his
                    profession, and begin life in real earnest. It was a hard, dry sort of existence
                    perhaps which she recommended; a life of serious work and application, in which
                    he should strive to be useful to his fellow-creatures, and win a reputation for himself. Mr. Audley almost made a
                    wry face at the thought of such a barren prospect.
                “I'd do all that,” he thought, “and do it earnestly, if I could be sure of a
                    reward for my labour. If she would accept my reputation when it was won, and
                    support me in the struggle by her beloved companionship. But what if she sends
                    me away to fight the battle, and marries some hulking country squire while my
                    back is turned?”
                Being naturally of a vacillating and dilatory disposition, there is no saying how
                    long Mr. Audley might have kept his secret, fearful to speak and break the charm
                    of that uncertainty which, though not always hopeful, was very seldom quite
                    despairing, had not he been hurried by the impulse of an unguarded moment into a
                    full confession of the truth.
                He had stayed five weeks at Grange Heath, and felt that he could not, in common
                    decency, stay any longer; so he had packed his portmanteau one pleasant May
                    morning, and had announced his departure.
                
                Mr. Talboys was not the sort of man to utter any passionate lamentations at the
                    prospect of losing his guest, but he expressed himself with a cool cordiality
                    which served with him as the strongest demonstration of friendship.
                “We have got on very well together, Mr. Audley,” he said, “and you have been
                    pleased to appear sufficiently happy in the quiet routine of our orderly
                    household; nay, more, you have conformed to our little domestic regulations in a
                    manner which I cannot refrain from saying I take as an especial compliment to
                    myself.”
                Robert bowed. How thankful he was to the good fortune which had never suffered
                    him to oversleep the signal of the clanging bell, or led him away beyond the ken
                    of clocks at Mr. Talboys's luncheon hour.
                “I trust as we have got on so remarkably well together,” Mr. Talboys resumed,
                    “you will do me the honour of repeating your visit to Dorsetshire whenever you
                    feel inclined. You will find plenty of sport amongst my farms, and you will meet
                    with every politeness and attention from my
                    tenants, if you like to bring your gun with you.”
                Robert responded most heartily to these friendly overtures. He declared that
                    there was no earthly occupation that was more agreeable to him than partridge
                    shooting, and that he should be only too delighted to avail himself of the
                    privilege so kindly offered to him. He could not help glancing towards Clara as
                    he said this. The perfect lids drooped a little over the brown eyes, and the
                    faintest shadow of a blush illuminated the beautiful face.
                But this was the young barrister's last day in Elysium, and there must be a
                    dreary interval of days and nights and weeks and months before the first of
                    September would give him an excuse for returning to Dorsstshire. A dreary
                    interval which fresh-coloured young squires, or fat widowers of eight-and-forty
                    might use to his disadvantage. It was no wonder, therefore, that he contemplated
                    this dismal prospect with moody despair, and was bad company for Miss Talboys
                    that morning.
                
                But in the evening after dinner, when the sun was low in the west, and Harcourt
                    Talbovs closeted in his library upon some judicial business with his lawyer and
                    a tenant farmer, Mr. Audley grew a little more agreeable. He stood by Clara's
                    side in one of the long windows of the drawing-room watching the shadows
                    deepening in the sky and the rosy light growing every moment rosier as the day
                    died out. He could not help enjoying that quiet tête-à-tête, though the shadow of the next morning's express
                    which was to carry him away to London loomed darkly across the pathway of his
                    joy. He could not help being happy in her presence; forgetful of the past,
                    reckless of the future.
                They talked of the one subject which was always a bond of union between them.
                    They talked of her lost brother George. She spoke of him in a very melancholy
                    tone this evening. How could she be otherwise than sad, remembering that if he
                    lived—and she was not even sure of that—he was a lonely wanderer far away from
                    all who loved him, and carrying the memory of a blighted life wherever he went. In the sombre twilight
                    stillness she spoke of him thus, with her hands clasped and the tears trembing
                    in her eyes.
                “I cannot think how papa can be so resigned to my poor brother's absence,” she
                    said, “for he does love him, Mr. Audley; even you must have seen lately that he
                    does love him. But I cannot think how he can so quietly submit to his absence.
                    If I were a man, I would go to Australia, and find him, and bring him back; if
                    he was still to be found among the living,” she added in a lower voice.
                She turned her face away from Robert, and looked out at the darkening sky. He
                    laid his hand upon her arm. It trembled in spite of him, and his voice trembled,
                    too, as he spoke to her.
                “Shall I go to look for your brother?” he said.
                “You!” She turned her head, and looked at him earnestly through her
                    tears. “You, Mr. Audley! Do you think that I could ask you to make such a sacrifice for me, or for those I
                    love?”
                “And do you think, Clara, that I should think any sacrifice too great an one if
                    it were made for you? Do you think there is any voyage I would refuse to take,
                    if I knew that you would welcome me when I came home, and thank me for having
                    served you faithfully. I will go from one end of the Continent of Australia to
                    the other to look for your brother, if you please, Clara; and will never return
                    alive unless I bring him with me, and will take my chance of what reward you
                    shall give me for my labour.”
                Her head was bent, and it was some moments before she answered him.
                “You are very good and generous, Mr. Audley,” she said, at last, “and I feel this
                    offer too much to be able to thank you for it. But—what you speak of could never
                    be. By what right could I accept such a sacrifice.”
                “By the right which makes me your bounden slave for ever and ever, whether you
                    will or no. By right of the love I bear you, Clara,” cried Mr. Audley, dropping on his knees,—rather awkwardly,
                    it must be confessed—and covering a soft little hand, that he had found
                    half-hidden among the folds of a silken dress, with passionate kisses.
                “I love you, Clara,” he said, “I love you. You may call for your father, and have
                    me turned out of the house this moment, if you like; but I shall go on loving
                    you all the same; and I shall love you for ever and ever, whether you will or
                    no.”
                The little hand was drawn away from his, but not with a sudden or angry gesture,
                    and it rested for one moment lightly and tremulously upon his dark hair.
                “Clara, Clara!” he murmured, in a low pleading voice, “shall I go to Australia to
                    look for your brother?”
                There was no answer. I don't know how it is, but there is scarcely anything more
                    delicious than silence in such cases. Every moment of hesitation is a tacit
                    avowal; every pause is a tender confession.
                
                “Shall we both go, dearest? Shall we go as man and wife? Shall we go together, my
                    dear love, and bring our brother back between us?”
                Mr. Harcourt Talboys coming into the lamp-lit room a quarter of an hour
                    afterwards, found Robert Audley alone, and had to listen to a revelation which
                    very much surprised him. Like all self-sufficient people, he was tolerably blind
                    to everything that happened under his nose, and he had fully believed that his
                    own society, and the Spartan regularity of his household, had been the
                    attractions which had made Dorsetshire delightful to his guest.
                He was rather disappointed, therefore; but he bore his disappointment pretty
                    well, and expressed a placid and rather stoical satisfaction at the turn which
                    affairs had taken.
                “I have only one more point upon which I wish to obtain your cosent, my dear
                    sir,” Robert said, when almost everything had been pleasantly settled. “Our
                    honeymoon trip, with your permission, will be to Australia.”
                
                Mr. Talboys was taken aback by this. He brushed something like a tearful mist
                    away from his hard grey eyes as he offered Robert his hand.
                “You are going to look for my son,” he said. “Bring me back my boy, and I will
                    freely forgive you for having robbed me of my daughter.”
                So Robert Audley went back to London, to surrender his chambers in Fig Tree
                    Court, and to make all due inquiries about such ships as sailed from Liverpool
                    for Sydney in the month of June.
                He went back a new man, with new hopes, new cares, new prospects, new purposes;
                    with a life that was so entirely changed that he looked out upon a world in
                    which everything wore a radiant and rosy aspect, and wondered how it could ever
                    have seemed such a dull, neutral tinted universe.
                He had lingered until after luncheon at Grange Heath, and it was in the dusky
                    twilight that he entered the shady Temple
                    courts and found his way to his chambers. He found Mrs. Maloney scrubbing the
                    stairs, as was her wont upon a Saturday evening, and he had to make his way
                    upward amidst an atmosphere of soapy steam, that made the bannisters greasy
                    under his touch.
                “There's lots of letthers, yer honour,” the laundress said, as she rose from her
                    knees and flattened herself against the wall to enable Robert to pass her, “and
                    there's some parrcels, and there's a gentleman which has called ever so many
                    times, and is waitin' to-night, for I towld him you'd written to me to say your
                    rooms were to be airred.”
                “Very good, Mrs. M.; you may get me some dinner and a pint of sherry as soon as
                    you like, and see that my luggagae is all right if you please.”
                He walked quietly up to his room to see who his visitor was. He was not likely to
                    be anybody of consequence. A dun, perhaps; for he had left his affairs in the
                    wildest confusion when he ran off in answer to
                    Mr. Talboy's invitation, and had been much to high up in the sublime Heaven of
                    love, to remember any such sublunary matters as unsettled tailors' bills.
                He opened the door of his sitting-room, and walked in. The canaries were singing
                    their farewell to the setting sun, and the faint, yellow light was flickering
                    upon the geranium leaves. The visitor, whoever he was, sat with his back to the
                    window and his head bent upon his breast. But he started up as Robert Audley
                    entered the room, and the young man uttered a great cry of delight and surprise,
                    and opened his arms to his lost friend, George Talboys.
                Mrs. Maloney had to fetch more wine and more dinner from the tavern which she
                    hounoured with her patronage, and the two young men sat deep into the night by
                    the hearth which had so long been lonely.
                We know how much Robert had to tell. He touched lightly and tenderly upon that
                    subject which he knew was cruelly painful to his friend; he said very little of
                    the wretched woman who was wearing out the
                    remnant of her wicked life in the quiet suburb of the forgotten Belgian city.
                George had never returned to Australia after all. He had gone on board the
                        Victoria Regia, but had afterwards exchanged his berth for one
                    in another vessel belonging to the same owners, and had gone to New York, where
                    he had stayed as long as he could support the weariness of his exile; as long as
                    he could endure the loneliness of an existence which separated him from every
                    friend he had ever known.
                “Jonathan was very kind to me, Bob,” he said; “I had enough money to enable me to
                    get on pretty well in my own quiet way, and I meant to have started on the
                    California gold-fields to get more when that was gone. I might have made plenty
                    of friends had I pleased, but I carried the old bullet in my breast; and what
                    sympathy could I have with men who knew nothing of my grief? I yearned for the
                    strong grasp of your hand, Bob; the friendly touch of the hand which had guided
                    me through the darkest passage of my life.”
            
            
            
                
                CHAPTER X.
                AT PEACE.
                TWO years have passed since the May twilight in which Robert found his
                    old friend; and Mr. Audley's dream of a fairy cottage has been realised between
                    Teddington Locks and Hampton Bridge, where, amid a little forest of foliage,
                    there is a fantastical dwelling-place of rustic woodwork, whose latticed windows
                    look out upon the river. Here amongst the lilies and the rushes on the sloping
                    bank, a brave boy of eight years old plays with a toddling baby who peers
                    wonderingly from his nurse's arms at that other baby in the purple depth of the
                    quiet water.
                Mr. Audley is a rising man upon the home circuit by this time, and has
                    distinguished himself in the great breach of promise case of Hobbs
                    v. Nobbs, and has convulsed the court by his deliciously comic
                    rendering of the faithless Nobb's amatory
                    correspondence. The handsome dark-eyed boy is Master George Talboys, who
                    declines musa at Eton, and fishes for tadpoles
                    in the clear water under the spreading umbrage beyond the ivied walls of his
                    academy. But he comes very often to the fairy cottage to see his father, who
                    lives there with his sister and his sister's husband; and he is very happy with
                    his uncle Robert, his aunt Clara, and the pretty baby who has just begun to
                    toddle on the smooth lawn that slopes down to the water's brink, upon which
                    there is a little Swiss boat-house and landing-stage where Robert and George
                    moor their slender wherries.
                Other people come to the cottage near Teddington. A bright, merry-hearted girl,
                    and a grey-bearded gentleman, who has survived the trouble of his life, and
                    battled with it as a Christian should.
                It is more than a year since a black-edged letter, written upon foreign paper,
                    came to Robert Audley, to announce the death of a certain Madame Taylor, who had
                    expired peacefully at Villebrumeuse, dying
                    after a long illness, which Monsieur Val describes as a maladie de langueur.
                Another visitor comes to the cottage in this bright summer of 1861,—a frank,
                    generous hearted young man, who tosses the baby, and plays with Georgey, and is
                    especially great in the management of the boats, which are never idle when Sir
                    Harry Towers is at Teddington.
                There is a pretty rustic smoking-room over the Swiss boat-house, in which the
                    gentlemen sit and smoke in the summer evenings, and from which they are summoned
                    by Clara and Alicia to drink tea, and eat strawberries and cream upon the lawn.
                Audley Court is shut up, and a grim old housekeeper reigns paramount in the
                    mansion which my lady's ringing laughter once made musical. A curtain hangs
                    before the pre-Raphaelite portrait: and the blue mold which artists dread
                    gathers upon the Wouvermanns and Poussins, the Cuyps and Tintorettos. The house
                    is often shown to inquisitive visitors, though the baronet is not informed of that fact, and people admire my
                    lady's rooms, and ask many questions about the pretty, fair-haired woman, who
                    died abroad.
                Sir Michael has no fancy to return to the familiar dwelling-place in which he
                    once dreamed a brief dream of impossible happiness. He remains in London until
                    Alicia shall be Lady Towers, when he is to remove to a house he has lately
                    bought in Hertfordshire, on the borders of his son-in-law's estate. George
                    Talboys is very happy with his sister and his old friend. He is a young man yet,
                    remember, and it is not quite impossible that he may by-and-by find some one who
                    will console him for the past. That dark story of the past fades little by
                    little every day, and there may come a time in which the shadow my lady's
                    wickedness has cast upon the young man's life, will utterly vanish away.
                The meerschaums and the French novels have been presented to a young Templar,
                    with whom Robert Audley had been friendly in his bachelor days, and Mrs. Maloney
                    has a little pension paid her quarterly for
                    her care of the canaries and geraniums.
                I hope no one will take objection to my story because the end of it leaves the
                    good people all happy and at peace. If my experience of life has not been very
                    long, it has at least been manifold; and I can safely subscribe to that which a
                    mighty king and a great philosopher declared, when he said that neither the
                    experience of his youth nor of his age had ever shown him “the righteous
                    forsaken, nor his seed begging their bread.”
            
            FINIS.
            BRADBURY AND EVANS, PRINTERS, WHITEFRIARS.
                
        
    
