
     ----CITATION----
        Webster, Augusta (1837-1894). Mother and Daughter. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 48 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (May 1, 1997 ).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7113
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    MOTHER & DAUGHTER 
                    AN UNCOMPLETED SONNET?SEQUENCE
                
                BY THE LATE AUGUSTA WEBSTER
                WITH AN INTRODUCTORY NOTE BY WILLIAM MICHAEL ROSSETTI
                To which are added Seven (her only other) Sonnets
                
                    London 
                    MACMILLAN AND CO. 
                    AND NEW YORK
                
                1895
                The Right of Translation and Reproduction is Reserved
            
            
            
            
                
                    
                        “She” [Lady Charlotte Elliot] “was, by cultivation of mind and by
                            sympathy of heart, affined closely to a kind of women those sweet
                            singers never dreamed of—women who, loving art much and romance much,
                            ‘love men and women more’—the noble band represented by George Eliot,
                            Mrs. Webster, and Miss Cobbe, who, in virtue of lofty purpose, purity of
                            soul, and deep sympathy with suffering humanity, are just now far ahead
                            of the men—bending their genius, like the rainbow, as a covenant of love
                            over ‘all flesh that is upon the earth.’”
                        THEODORE WATTS.
                            ATHENÆUM, January 24, 1880.
                    
                
                Augusta Webster died September 5, 1894.
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                    INTRODUCTORY NOTE 11?14
                    MOTHER AND DAUGHTER 
                            SONNETS I.?XXVII. 15?41
                        
                    SEVEN OTHER SONNETS 
                            THE OLD LOVE, I. AND II. 45, 46
                            THE BROOK RHINE 47
                            CHOOSING 48
                            POULAIN THE PRISONER I.?III. 49?51
                        
                
            
        
        
        
            
            MOTHER AND DAUGHTER
            
                
                    
                    
                        INTRODUCTORY NOTE
                        IT is my privilege to have been invited to say a few words by
                            way of introduction to this little book of Sonnets. Augusta Webster—as
                            admirable and attaching in private life as she was preëminent as a
                            poetess—stands indeed far above the level at which I ought to be held
                            entitled to write anything about her; none the less I avail myself of
                            the invitation with alacrity, and with a full sense of the honour which
                            is hereby conceded to me.
                        Nothing certainly could be more genuine than these Sonnets. A Mother is
                            expressing her love for a Daughter—her reminiscences, anxieties, and
                            hopeful anticipations. The theme is as beautiful and natural a one as
                            any poetess could select, uniting, in the warm clasp of the domestic
                            affections, something of those olden favourites, The 
                                Pleasures of Memory and The
                                    Pleasures of Hope. It seems a little surprising
                            that Mrs. Webster had not been forestalled—and to the best of my
                            knowledge she never was forestalled—in such a treatment.
                            But some of the poetesses have not been Mothers.
                        Mrs. Webster’s reputation rests securely upon several volumes of
                            verse—highly remarkable verse, at once feminine and in a right sense
                            masculine—including four Dramas. The Auspicious
                                Day was published in 1872;
                                    Disguises in 1879; In a
                                    Day in 1882; The
                                Sentence in 1887. The Auspicious
                                    Day is in a marked degree a capable and bold
                            performance. The other three dramas are all so excellent that it might
                            almost count as a matter of individual preference to choose between
                                    them—In a Day being the most
                            compactly poetical, Disguises the most
                            romantic, and full of high perception and sympathy in character and
                            incident. But to me The Sentence appears the
                            one supreme thing.
                        There are two British poetesses to one or other of whom the palm is now
                            generally awarded; Elizabeth Barrett Browning and Christina Georgina
                            Rossetti: I speak of the latter not in the suspicious character of a
                            brother, but according to the testimony which has been generously, and indeed lavishly,
                            given to her by the public voice since her death in December 1894. The
                            testimony may be correct or incorrect—Time will show; but it is for the
                            present open and manifest, and not to be denied by any one, be he a
                            brother or not.
                        In calling The Sentence the one supreme thing
                            I was speaking of its position in Augusta Webster’s own work: but I must
                            in candour go beyond this, and express my conviction (I have done so
                            once before in print) that it is the supreme thing amid the work of
                                all British poetesses. Taking into account its
                            importance in scale and subject, and its magnificence in handling, it
                            beats everything else. The theme of the drama—a three?act tragedy in
                            verse—is thrilling and stupendous: a vengeance of the Emperor Caligula,
                            who, for the purposes of the tragedian, is conceived as equally
                            righteous, ruthless, and insane—an awful, and yet a perfectly human,
                            dramatic figure. The general treatment, and the adaptation to the
                            demands of the drama and even of the stage, seem to me just as
                            consummately fine as the initial conception. Mrs. Browning had to show
                            such splendid work as The Drama of Exile and
                                    Aurora Leigh: but she could never have done The
                                    Sentence, or anything like it. As for Christina
                            Rossetti—though it may easily be supposed that I should be the last to
                            undervalue her noble work in other fields of poetry—the very suggestion
                            of her writing any tragedy, much more any such tragedy as
                                    The Sentence, would be preposterous.
                            Let me have the pleasure of here adding that she was fully alive to the
                            unmatched claims of this great work of Mrs. Webster’s, and eager in
                            asserting them.
                        Mrs. Webster had many and discerning admirers throughout her literary
                            career; but it may safely be asserted that her true rank will only be
                            fixed when The Sentence comes to be
                            generally recognized—and this can scarcely fail to come—as one of the
                            masterpieces of European drama.
                        WM. M. ROSSETTI. LONDON, April
                                1895.
                    
                
                
                
                    
                        MOTHER AND DAUGHTER
                        An Uncompleted Sonnet?Sequence
                    
                        
                            I
                            
                                Young laughters, and my music! Aye till now
                                The voice can reach no blending minors near;
                                ’Tis the bird’s trill because the spring is here
                                And spring means trilling on a blossomy bough;
                                ’Tis the spring joy that has no why or how,
                                But sees the sun and hopes not nor can fear—
                                Spring is so sweet and spring seems all the year.
                                Dear voice, the first?come birds but trill as thou.
                            
                            
                                Oh music of my heart, be thus for long:
                                Too soon the spring bird learns the later song;
                                Too soon a sadder sweetness slays content
                                Too soon! There comes new light on onward day,
                                There comes new perfume o’er a rosier way:
                                Comes not again the young spring joy that went.
                            
                            
                                ROME, November 1881.
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            II
                            
                                That she is beautiful is not delight,
                                As some think mothers joy, by pride of her,
                                To witness questing eyes caught prisoner
                                And hear her praised the livelong dancing night;
                                But the glad impulse that makes painters sight
                                Bids me note her and grow the happier;
                                And love that finds me as her worshipper
                                Reveals me each best loveliness aright.
                            
                            
                                Oh goddess head! Oh innocent brave eyes!
                                Oh curved and parted lips where smiles are rare
                                And sweetness ever! Oh smooth shadowy hair
                                Gathered around the silence of her brow!
                                Child, I’d needs love thy beauty stranger?wise:
                                And oh the beauty of it, being thou!
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            III
                            
                                I watch the sweet grave face in timorous thought
                                Lest I should see it dawn to some unrest
                                And read that in her heart is youth’s ill guest,
                                The querulous young sadness, born of nought,
                                That wearies of the strife it has not fought,
                                And finds the life it has not had unblest,
                                And asks it knows not what that should be best,
                                And till Love come has never what it sought.
                            
                            
                                But she is still. A full and crystal lake
                                So gives it skies their passage to its deeps
                                In an unruffled morn where no winds wake,
                                And, strong and fretless, ’stirs not, nor yet
                                    sleeps.
                                My darling smiles and ’tis for gladness’ sake;
                                She hears a woe, ’tis simple tears she weeps.
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            IV
                            
                                ’Tis but a child. The quiet Juno gaze
                                Breaks at a trifle into mirth and glow,
                                Changed as a folded bud bursts into blow,
                                And she springs, buoyant, on some busy craze,
                                Or, in the rhythm of her girlish plays,
                                Like light upon swift waves floats to and fro,
                                And, whatsoe’er’s her mirth, needs me to know,
                                And keeps me young by her young innocent ways.
                            
                            
                                Just now she and her kitten raced and sprang
                                To catch the daisy ball she tossed about;
                                Then they grew grave, and found a shady tree,
                                And kitty tried to see the notes she sang:
                                Now she flies hitherward—“Mother! Quick! Come
                                    see!
                                Two hyacinths in my garden almost out!”
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            V
                            
                                Last night the broad blue lightnings flamed the sky;
                                We watched, our breaths caught as each burst its
                                    way,
                                And through its fire out?leaped the sharp white
                                    ray,
                                And sudden dark re?closed when it went by:
                                But she, that where we are will needs be nigh,
                                Had tired with hunting orchids half the day.
                                Her father thought she called us; he and I,
                                Half anxious, reached the bedroom where she lay.
                            
                            
                                Oh lily face upon the whiteness blent!
                                How calm she lay in her unconscious grace!
                                A peal crashed on the silence ere we went;
                                She stirred in sleep, a little changed her place,
                                “Mother,” she breathed, a smile grew on her face:
                                “Mother,” my darling breathed, and slept content.
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            VI
                            
                                Sometimes, as young things will, she vexes me,
                                Wayward, or too unheeding, or too blind.
                                Like aimless birds that, flying on a wind,
                                Strike slant against their own familiar tree;
                                Like venturous children pacing with the sea,
                                That turn but when the breaker spurts behind
                                Outreaching them with spray: she in such kind
                                Is borne against some fault, or does not flee.
                            
                            
                                And so, may be, I blame her for her wrong,
                                And she will frown and lightly plead her part,
                                And then I bid her go. But ’tis not long:
                                Then comes she lip to ear and heart to heart.
                                And thus forgiven her love seems newly strong,
                                And, oh my penitent, how dear thou art!
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            VII
                            
                                Her father lessons me I at times am hard,
                                Chiding a moment’s fault as too grave ill,
                                And let some little blot my vision fill,
                                Scanning her with a narrow near regard.
                                True. Love’s unresting gaze is self?debarred
                                From all sweet ignorance, and learns a skill,
                                Not painless, of such signs as hurt love’s will,
                                That would not have its prize one tittle marred.
                            
                            
                                Alas! Who rears and loves a dawning rose
                                Starts at a speck upon one petal’s rim:
                                Who sees a dusk creep in the shrined pearl’s glows,
                                Is ruined at once: “My jewel growing dim!”
                                I watch one bud that on my bosom blows,
                                I watch one treasured pearl for me and him.
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            VIII
                            
                                A little child she, half defiant came
                                Reasoning her case—’twas not so long ago—
                                “I cannot mind your scolding, for I know
                                However bad I were you’d love the same.”
                                And I, what countering answer could I frame?
                                ’Twas true, and true, and God’s self told her so.
                                One does but ask one’s child to smile and grow,
                                And each rebuke has love for its right name.
                            
                            
                                And yet, methinks, sad mothers who for years,
                                Watching the child pass forth that was their
                                    boast,
                                Have counted all the footsteps by new fears
                                Till even lost fears seem hopes whereof they’re reft
                                And of all mother’s good love sole is left—
                                Is their Love, Love, or some remembered ghost?
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            IX
                            
                                Oh weary hearts! Poor mothers that look back!
                                So outcasts from the vale where they were born
                                Turn on their road and, with a joy forlorn,
                                See the far roofs below their arid track:
                                So in chill buffets while the sea grows black
                                And windy skies, once blue, are tost and torn,
                                We are not yet forgetful of the morn,
                                And praise anew the sunshine that we lack.
                            
                            
                                Oh, sadder than pale sufferers by a tomb
                                That say “My dead is happier, and is more”
                                Are they who dare no “is” but tell what’s o’er—
                                Thus the frank childhood, those the lovable ways—
                                Stirring the ashes of remembered days
                                For yet some sparks to warm the livelong gloom.
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            X
                            Love’s Counterfeit.
                            
                                Not Love, not Love, that worn and footsore thrall
                                Who, crowned with withered buds and leaves gone
                                    dry,
                                Plods in his chains to follow one passed by,
                                Guerdoned with only tears himself lets fall.
                                Love is asleep and smiling in his pall,
                                And this that wears his shape and will not die
                                Was once his comrade shadow, Memory—
                                His shadow that now stands for him in all.
                            
                            
                                And there are those who, hurrying on past reach,
                                See the dim follower and laugh, content,
                                “Lo, Love pursues me, go where’er I will!”
                                Yet, longer gazing, some may half beseech,
                                “This must be Love that wears his
                                    features still:
                                Or else when was the moment that Love went?”
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            XI
                            Love’s Mourner.
                            
                                ’Tis men who say that through all hurt and pain
                                The woman’s love, wife’s, mother’s, still will
                                    hold,
                                And breathes the sweeter and will more unfold
                                For winds that tear it, and the sorrowful rain.
                                So in a thousand voices has the strain
                                Of this dear patient madness been retold,
                                That men call woman’s love. Ah! they are bold,
                                Naming for love that grief which does remain.
                            
                            
                                Love faints that looks on baseness face to face:
                                Love pardons all; but by the pardonings dies,
                                With a fresh wound of each pierced through the
                                    breast.
                                And there stand pityingly in Love’s void place
                                Kindness of household wont familiar?wise,
                                And faith to Love—faith to our dead at rest.
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            XII
                            
                                She has made me wayside posies: here they stand,
                                Bringing fresh memories of where they grew.
                                As new?come travellers from a world we knew
                                Wake every while some image of their land,
                                So these whose buds our woodland breezes fanned
                                Bring to my room the meadow where they blew,
                                The brook?side cliff, the elms where wood?doves
                                    coo—
                                And every flower is dearer for her hand.
                            
                            
                                Oh blossoms of the paths she loves to tread,
                                Some grace of her is in all thoughts you bear:
                                For in my memories of your homes that were
                                The old sweet loneliness they kept is fled,
                                And would I think it back I find instead
                                A presence of my darling mingling there.
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            XIII
                            
                                My darling scarce thinks music sweet save mine:
                                ’Tis that she does but love me more than hear.
                                She’ll not believe my voice to stranger ear
                                Is merely measure to the note and line;
                                “Not so,” she says; “Thou hast a secret thine:
                                The others’ singing’s only rich, or clear,
                                But something in thy tones brings music near;
                                As though thy song could search me and divine.”
                            
                            
                                Oh voice of mine that in some day not far
                                Time, the strong creditor, will call his debt,
                                Will dull—and even to her—will rasp and mar,
                                Sing Time asleep because of her regret,
                                Be twice thy life the thing her fancies are,
                                Thou echo to the self she knows not yet.
                            
                            
                                CASERTA, April, 1882.
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            XIV
                            
                                To love her as to?day is so great bliss
                                I needs must think of morrows almost loth,
                                Morrows wherein the flower’s unclosing growth
                                Shall make my darling other than she is.
                                The breathing rose excels the bud I wis,
                                Yet bud that will be rose is sweet for both;
                                And by?and?by seems like some later troth
                                Named in the moment of a lover’s kiss.
                            
                            
                                Yes, I am jealous, as of one now strange
                                That shall instead of her possess my thought,
                                Of her own self made new by any change,
                                Of her to be by ripening morrows brought.
                                My rose of women under later skies!
                                Yet, ah! my child with the child’s trustful eyes!
                            
                            
                                CERNOBBIO.
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            XV
                            
                                That some day Death who has us all for jest
                                Shall hide me in the dark and voiceless mould,
                                And him whose living hand has mine in hold,
                                Where loving comes not nor the looks that rest,
                                Shall make us nought where we are known the best,
                                Forgotten things that leave their track untold
                                As in the August night the sky’s dropped gold—
                                This seems no strangeness, but Death’s natural hest.
                            
                            
                                But looking on the dawn that is her face
                                To know she too is Death’s seems mis?belief;
                                She should not find decay, but, as the sun
                                Moves mightier from the veil that hides his place,
                                Keep ceaseless radiance. Life is Death begun:
                                But Death and her! That’s strangeness passing
                                    grief.
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            XVI
                            
                                She will not have it that my day wanes low,
                                Poor of the fire its drooping sun denies,
                                That on my brow the thin lines write good?byes
                                Which soon may be read plain for all to know,
                                Telling that I have done with youth’s brave show;
                                Alas! and done with youth in heart and eyes,
                                With wonder and with far expectancies,
                                Save but to say “I knew such long ago.”
                            
                            
                                She will not have it. Loverlike to me,
                                She with her happy gaze finds all that’s best,
                                She sees this fair and that unfretted still,
                                And her own sunshine over all the rest:
                                So she half keeps me as she’d have me be,
                                And I forget to age, through her sweet will.
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            XVII
                            
                                And how could I grow old while she’s so young?
                                Methinks her heart sets tune for mine to beat,
                                We are so near; her new thoughts, incomplete,
                                Find their shaped wording happen on my tongue;
                                Like bloom on last year’s winterings newly sprung
                                My youth upflowers with hers, and must repeat
                                Old joyaunces in me nigh obsolete.
                                Could I grow older while my child’s so young?
                            
                            
                                And there are tales how youthful blood instilled
                                Thawing frore Age’s veins gave life new course,
                                And quavering limbs and eyes made indolent
                                Grew freshly eager with beginning force:
                                She so breathes impulse. Were my years twice spent,
                                Not burdening Age, with her, could make me chilled.
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            XVIII
                            
                                ’Tis hard that the full summer of our round
                                Is but the turn where winter’s sign?post’s writ;
                                That to have reached the best is leaving it;
                                That final loss bears date from having found.
                                So some proud vessel in a narrow sound
                                Sails at high water with the fair wind fit,
                                And lo! the ebb along the sandy spit,
                                Lower and lower till she jars, aground.
                            
                            
                                ’Tis hard. We are young still but more content;
                                ’Tis our ripe flush, the heyday of our prime;
                                We learn full breath, how rich of the air we are!
                                But suddenly we note a touch of time,
                                A little fleck that scarcely seems to mar;
                                And we know then that some time since youth went.
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            XIX
                            
                                Life on the wane: yes, sudden that news breaks.
                                And yet I would ’twere suddenly and less soon;
                                Since no forewarning makes loss opportune.
                                And now I watch that slow advance Time makes:
                                Watch as, while silent flow spreads broad the lakes
                                Mid the land levels of a smooth lagoon,
                                One waiting, pitiful, on a tidal dune,
                                Aware too long before it overtakes.
                            
                            
                                Ah! there’s so quick a joy in hues and sun,
                                And will my eyes see dim? Will vacant sense
                                Forget the lark, the surges on the beach?
                                Shall I step wearily and wish ’twere done?
                                Well, if it be love will not too go hence,
                                Love will have new glad secrets yet to teach.
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            XX
                            
                                There’s one I miss. A little questioning maid
                                That held my finger, trotting by my side,
                                And smiled out of her pleased eyes open wide,
                                Wondering and wiser at each word I said.
                                And I must help her frolics if she played,
                                And I must feel her trouble if she cried;
                                My lap was hers past right to be denied;
                                She did my bidding, but I more obeyed.
                            
                            
                                Dearer she is to?day, dearer and more;
                                Closer to me, since sister womanhoods meet;
                                Yet, like poor mothers some long while bereft,
                                I dwell on toward ways, quaint memories left,
                                I miss the approaching sound of pit?pat feet,
                                The eager baby voice outside my door.
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            XXI
                            
                                Hardly in any common tender wise,
                                With petting talk, light lips on her dear cheek,
                                The love I mean my child will bear to speak,
                                Loth of its own less image for disguise;
                                But liefer will it floutingly devise,
                                Using a favourite jester’s mimic pique,
                                Prompt, idle, by?names with their sense to seek,
                                And takes for language laughing ironies.
                            
                            
                                But she, as when some foreign tongue is heard,
                                Familiar on our lips and closely known,
                                We feel the every purport of each word
                                When ignorant ears reach empty sound alone,
                                So knows the core within each merry gird,
                                So gives back such a meaning in her own.
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            XXII
                            
                                The brook leaps riotous with its life just found,
                                That freshets from the mountain rains have fed,
                                Beats at the boulders in its hindered bed,
                                And fills the valley with its triumphing sound.
                                The strong unthirsty tarn sunk in deep ground
                                Has never a sigh wherewith its wealth is said,
                                Has no more ripples than the May?flies tread:
                                Silence of waters is where they abound.
                            
                            
                                And love, whatever love, sure, makes small boast:
                                ’Tis the new lovers tell, in wonder yet.
                                Oh happy need! Enriched stream’s jubilant gush!
                                But who being spouses well have learned love’s most,
                                Being child and mother learned not nor forget,
                                These in their joyfulness feel the tarn’s strong hush.
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            XXIII
                            
                                Birds sing “I love you, love” the whole day through,
                                And not another song can they sing right;
                                But, singing done with, loving’s done with quite,
                                The autumn sunders every twittering two.
                                And I’d not have love make too much ado
                                With sweet parades of fondness and delight,
                                Lest iterant wont should make caresses trite,
                                Love?names mere cuckoo ousters of the true.
                            
                            
                                Oh heart can hear heart’s sense in senseless nought,
                                And heart that’s sure of heart has little speech.
                                What shall it tell? The other knows its thought.
                                What shall one doubt or question or beseech
                                Who is assured and knows and, unbesought,
                                Possesses the dear trust that each gives each.
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            XXIV
                            
                                “You scarcely are a mother, at that rate.
                                Only one child!” The blithe soul pitied loud.
                                And doubtless she, amid her household crowd,
                                When one brings care in another’s fortunate;
                                When one fares forth another’s at her gate.
                                Yea, were her first?born folded in his shroud,
                                Not with a whole despair would she be bowed,
                                She has more sons to make her heart elate.
                            
                            
                                Many to love her singly, mother theirs,
                                To give her the dear love of being their need,
                                To storm her lap by turns and claim their kiss,
                                To kneel around her at their bed?time prayers;
                                Many to grow her comrades! Some have this.
                                Yet I, I do not envy them indeed.
                            
                            
                                RAMSGATE, 1886.
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            XXV
                            
                                You think that you love each as much as one,
                                Mothers with many nestlings ’neath your wings.
                                Nay, but you know not. Love’s most priceless
                                    things
                                Have unity that cannot be undone.
                                You give the rays, I the englobed full sun;
                                I give the river, you the separate springs:
                                My motherhood’s all my child’s with all it
                                    brings—
                                None takes the strong entireness from her: none.
                            
                            
                                You know not. You love yours with various stress;
                                This with a graver trust, this with more pride;
                                This maybe with more needed tenderness:
                                I by each uttermost passion of my soul
                                Am turned to mine; she is one, she has the whole:
                                How should you know who appraise love and divide?
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            XXVI
                            
                                Of my one pearl so much more joy I gain
                                As he that to his sole desire is sworn,
                                Indifferent what women more were born,
                                And if she loved him not all love were vain,
                                Gains more, because of her—yea, through all pain,
                                All love and sorrows, were they two forlorn—
                                Than whoso happiest in the lands of morn
                                Mingles his heart amid a wifely train.
                            
                            
                                Oh! Child and mother, darling! Mother and child!
                                And who but we? We, darling, paired alone?
                                Thou hast all thy mother; thou art all my own.
                                That passion of maternity which sweeps
                                Tideless ’neath where the heaven of thee hath smiled
                                Has but one channel, therefore infinite deeps.
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            XXVII
                            
                                Since first my little one lay on my breast
                                I never needed such a second good,
                                Nor felt a void left in my motherhood
                                She filled not always to the utterest.
                                The summer linnet, by glad yearnings pressed,
                                Builds room enough to house a callow brood:
                                I prayed not for another child—nor could;
                                My solitary bird had my heart’s nest.
                            
                            
                                But she is cause that any baby thing
                                If it but smile, is one of mine in truth,
                                And every child becomes my natural joy:
                                And, if my heart gives all youth fostering,
                                Her sister, brother, seems the girl or boy:
                                My darling makes me mother to their youth.
                            
                        
                        * * * * * *
                    
                        
                
            
            
            
                
                    
                    SEVEN OTHER SONNETS
                    
                    
                        THE OLD LOVE
                        I
                        You love me, only me. Do I not know?
                        If I were gone your life would be no more
                        Than his who, hungering on a rocky shore,
                        Shipwrecked, alone, observes the ebb and flow
                        Of hopeless ocean widening forth below,
                        And is remembering all that was before.
                        Dear, I believe it, at your strong heart’s core
                        I am the life; no need to tell me so.
                        And yet—Ah, husband, though I be more fair,
                        More worth your love, and though you loved her not,
                        (Else must you have some different, deeper name
                        For loving me), dimly I seem aware,
                        As though you conned old stories long forgot,
                        Those days are with you—hers—before I came.
                    
                    
                    
                        THE OLD LOVE
                        II
                        The mountain traveller, joyous on his way,
                        Looks on the vale he left and calls it fair,
                        Then counts with pride how far he is from there,
                        And still ascends. And, when my fancies stray,
                        Pleased with light memories of a bygone day,
                        I would not have again the things that were.
                        I take their thought like fragrance in the air
                        Of flowers I gathered in my childish play.
                        And thou, my very soul, can it touch thee
                        If I remember her or I forget?
                        Does the sun ask if the white stars be set?
                        Yes, I recall, shall many times, maybe,
                        Recall the dear old boyish days again,
                        The dear old boyish passion. Love, what then?
                    
                    
                    
                        THE BROOK RHINE
                        Small current of the wilds afar from men,
                        Changing and sudden as a baby’s mood;
                        Now a green babbling rivulet in the wood,
                        Now loitering broad and shallow through the glen,
                        Or threading ’mid the naked shoals, and then
                        Brattling against the stones, half mist, half flood,
                        Between the mountains where the storm?clouds brood;
                        And each change but to wake or sleep again;
                        Pass on, young stream, the world has need of thee:
                        Far hence a mighty river on its breast
                        Bears the deep?laden vessels to the sea;
                        Far hence wide waters feed the vines and corn:
                        Pass on, small stream, to so great purpose born,
                        On to the distant toil, the distant rest.
                        
                            THE SPLÜGEN PASS, 1873.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        CHOOSING
                        
                            The thrush that, yet alone, pipes for his mate
                            Knows she will come in time to build the nest,
                            Knows she’ll be she his tiny soul loves best;
                            ’Tis love?time at the hawthorn blossom’s date:
                            And the new flower?cups bare their hearts and wait
                            While careless breezes bring them love for guest;
                            And Youth laughs ready for the glad unrest;
                            But Love that chooses lingers desolate.
                        
                        
                            And I, who seek, and yearn for love to stir,
                            And I, who seek, and cannot love but one
                            And have not known her being, nor can find,
                            I take my homeless way for sake of her;
                            And love?time’s here, and love?time will be done:
                            Birds end all singing in the autumn wind.
                        
                        
                            
                                1881.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        POULAIN THE PRISONER
                        I
                        
                            Beyond his silent vault green springs went by,
                            The river flashed along its open way,
                            Blithe swallows flitted in their billowy play,
                            And the sweet lark went quivering up the sky.
                            With him was stillness and his heart’s dumb cry
                            And darkness of the tomb through hopeless day,
                            Save that along the wall one single ray
                            Shifted, through jealous loopholes, westerly.
                        
                        
                            One single ray: and where its light could fall
                            Its rusty nail carved saints and angels there,
                            And warriors, and slim girls with braided hair,
                            And blossomy boughs and birds athwart the air.
                            Rude work, but yet a world. And light for all
                            Was one slant ray upon a prison wall.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        POULAIN THE PRISONER
                        II
                        
                            One ray, and in its track he lived and wrought,
                            And in free wideness of the world, I know,
                            One said “Fair sunshine, yet it serves not so,
                            It needs a tenderer when I shape my thought;”
                            And, “’Tis too brown and molten in the drought;”
                            And “’Tis too wan a greyness in this snow;”
                            And would have toiled, but wearied and was woe,
                            While days stole past and had bequeathed him nought.
                        
                        
                            Maybe in Gisors, round the fortress mead—
                            Gisors where now, when fair?time brings its press,
                            They seek the prisoner’s tower to gaze and guess
                            And love the work he made in loneliness—
                            One cursed the gloom, and died without a deed,
                            The while he carved where his one ray could lead.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        POULAIN THE PRISONER
                        III
                        
                            “Oh loneliness! oh darkness!” So we wail,
                            Crying to life to give we know not what,
                            The hope not come, the ecstasy forgot,
                            The things we should have had and, needing, fail,
                            Nor know what thing it was for which we ail,
                            And, like tired travellers to an unknown spot,
                            Pass listless, noting only “Yet ’tis not,”
                            And count the ended day an empty tale.
                        
                        
                            Ah me! to linger on in dim repose
                            And feel the numbness over hand and thought,
                            And feel the silence in the heart, that grows.
                            Ah me! to have forgot the hope we sought.
                            One ray of light, and a soul lived and wrought,
                            And on the prison walls a message rose.
                        
                        
                            GISORS, 1881.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                
            
        
    
