
     ----CITATION----
        Booth, Catherine Mumford (1829-1890). Papers on Aggressive Christianity. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 326 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2000-Apr-18).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7010
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    PAPERS ON AGGRESSIVE CHRISTIANITY
                
                BY CATHERINE BOOTH
                
                    SALVATIONIST PUBLISHING AND SUPPLIES, LTD.
                    
                        117-121 JUDD STREET, KING'S CROSS,
LONDON, W.C.1
                    
                    
                    MADE AND PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY THE CAMPFIELD PRESS, ST.
                        ALBANS
                
            
            
                
                PREFACE
                THE addresses contained in this little volume were delivered
                    during a series of services at the West End of London, in the summer of 1880.
                    That they were used then of the Lord I had abundant evidence, and on that
                    account I have consented to their reproduction in this form, hoping that He may
                    still speak through them to many souls.
                I only regret that pressing public duties have prevented the shorthand writer's
                    notes being revised as thoroughly as I could have wished, especially as they are
                    reports of what were themselves largely unpremeditated utterances.
                
                    CATHERINE BOOTH.
                    London, December, 1880
                
            
            
                
                CONTENTS
                
                    AGGRESSIVE CHRISTIANITY 1
                    A PURE GOSPEL 21
                    ADAPTATION OF MEASURES 41
                    ASSURANCE OF SALVATION 61
                    HOW CHRIST TRANSCENDS THE LAW 81
                    THE FRUITS OF UNION WITH CHRIST 103
                    WITNESSING FOR CHRIST 121
                    FILLED WITH THE SPIRIT 145
                    THE WORLD'S NEED 163
                    THE HOLY GHOST 181
                
            
        
        
            AGGRESSIVE CHRISTIANITY
            
                
                AGGRESSIVE CHRISTIANITY
                
                    MARK xvi. 15.—
                    ‘Go ye into all the world and preach the Gospel to every creature.’
                
                
                    ACTS xxvi. 15-18.—
                    ‘And I said, Who art Thou, Lord? And He said, I am Jesus whom thou
                        persecutest. But rise, and stand upon thy feet: for I have appeared unto
                        thee for this purpose, to make thee a minister and a witness both of these
                        things which thou hast seen, and of those things in the which I will appear
                        unto thee: Delivering thee from the people, and from the Gentiles, unto whom
                        now I send thee, to open their eyes, and to turn them from darkness to
                        light, and from the power of Satan unto God that they may receive
                        forgiveness of sins, and inheritance among them which are sanctified by
                        faith that is in Me.’
                
                I WAS thinking, while I was reading the lesson, that, supposing
                    we could blot out from our minds all knowledge of the history of Christianity
                    from the time of this Inauguration Service—from that Pentecostal Baptism—or, at
                    any rate, from the close of the period described in the Acts of the Apostles,
                    suppose we could detach from our minds all knowledge of the history of
                    Christianity since then, and take the Acts of the Apostles and sit down and
                    calculate what was likely to happen in the world, what different results we
                    should have anticipated, what a different world we should have reckoned upon as
                    the outcome of it all. A system which commenced under such auspices, with such
                    assumptions and professions on the part of its Author (speaking after the manner of men), and producing, as
                    it did, in the first century of its existence, such gigantic and momentous
                    results. We should have said, if we knew nothing of what has intervened from
                    that time to this, that, no doubt the world where that war commenced, and for
                    which it was organized, would have long since been subjugated to the influence
                    of that system, and brought under the power of its great originator and founder!
                    I say, from reading these Acts, and from observing the spirit which animated the
                    early disciples, and from the way in which everything fell before them, we
                    should have anticipated that ten thousand times greater results would have
                    followed, and, in my judgment, this anticipation would have been perfectly
                    rational and just.
                We Christians profess to possess in the Gospel of Christ a mighty lever which,
                    rightly and universally applied, would lift the entire burden of sin and misery
                    from the shoulders, that is, from the souls, of our fellow-men—a panacea, we
                    believe it to be, for all the moral and spiritual woes of humanity, and in
                    curing their spiritual plagues we should go far to cure their physical plagues
                    also. We all profess to believe this. Christians have professed to believe this
                    for generations gone by, ever since the time of which we have been reading, and
                    yet look at the world, look at so-called Christian England, in this end of the
                    nineteenth century! The great majority of the nation utterly ignoring God, and
                    not even making any pretence of remembering Him one day in the week. And then
                    look at the rest of the world. I have frequently got so depressed with this view of things that I have felt
                    as if my heart would break. I don't know how other Christians feel, but I can
                    truly say that ‘rivers of water do often run down my eyes because men keep not
                    His law,’ and because it seems to me that this dispensation, compared with what
                    God intended it to be, has been, and still is, as great a failure as that which
                    preceded it.
                Now, I ask, how is this? I do not for a moment believe that this is in accordance
                    with the purpose of God. Some people have a very convenient way of hiding behind
                    God's purposes, and saying, ‘Oh! He will do His own will.’ I wish He did! They
                    say, ‘You know God's will is done after all.’ I wish it were! He
                    says it is not done, and over and over again laments the fact that
                    it is not done. He wants it to be done, but it is NOT DONE! ‘It is
                    of no use to stand up and propound theories that are at variance with things as
                    they are.’ There has been a great deal too much of this, and it has had a very
                    bad effect. The world is in this condition, and here is a system launched under
                    such auspices, with such purposes, with such promises, and with such prospects,
                    and yet nearly nineteen hundred years have rolled away and here we are. How
                    little has been done, comparatively. What a little alteration has been effected
                    in the habits and dispositions of the race.
                But some of you will say, ‘Well, but there is a good deal done.’ Thank God for
                    that. It would be sad if there were nothing done; but it looks like
                    a drop in the ocean compared with what should have been done. Now I cannot
                    accept any theory which so far reflects upon the
                    love and goodness of God as to make Him to blame for this
                    effeteness of Christianity, and, so far as my influence extends, I will not
                    allow the responsibility and the blame of all this to be rolled back upon God,
                    who so loved the world that He gave His only Son to ignominy and death in order
                    to redeem it. I do not believe it for a moment. I believe that the old
                    arch-enemy has done in this dispensation what he did in former ones—so far
                    circumvented the purposes of God, that he has succeeded in bringing about this
                    state of things—in retarding the accomplishment of God's purposes and keeping
                    the world thus largely under his own power and influence, and I believe he has
                    succeeded in doing this, as he has succeeded always before, by DECEIVING
                        GOD'S OWN PEOPLE. He has always done so. He has always got up a
                    caricature of God's real thing, and the nearer he can get it to be like the
                    original the more successful he is. He has succeeded in deceiving God's
                    people:
                First—AS TO THE STANDARD OF THEIR OWN RELIGIOUS LIFE.
                And, Secondly, he has succeeded in deceiving them AS TO THEIR
                        DUTIES AND OBLIGATIONS TO THE WORLD.
                He has succeeded, first, in deceiving them as to the standard of their own
                    religious life. He has got the Church, nearly as a whole, to receive what I call
                    an ‘Oh, wretched man that I am’ religion! He has got them to lower the standard
                    which Jesus Christ Himself established in this Book—a standard, not only to be
                    aimed at, but to be attained unto—a standard of victory over sin, the world, the
                        flesh, and the Devil, real, living,
                        reigning, triumphing, Christianity! Satan knew what was the secret of
                    the great success of those early disciples. It was their whole-hearted devotion,
                    their absorbing love to Christ, their utter abnegation of the world. It was
                    their entire absorption in the Salvation of their fellow-men and the glory of
                    their God. It was an enthusiastic religion that swallowed them up, and made them
                    willing to become wanderers and vagabonds on the face of the earth—for His sake
                    to dwell in dens and caves, to be torn asunder, and to be persecuted in every
                    form.
                It was this degree of devotion before which Satan saw he had no chance. Such
                    people as these, he knew, must ultimately subdue the world. It is not in human
                    nature to stand before that kind of spirit, that amount of love and zeal, and if
                    Christians had only gone on as they began long since, the glorious prophecy
                    would have been fulfilled, ‘The kingdoms of this world’ would have ‘become the
                    kingdoms of our Lord and of his Christ.’
                Therefore, the arch-enemy said, ‘What must I do? I shall be defeated after all. I
                    shall lose my supremacy as the god of this world. What shall I do?’ No use to
                    bring in a gigantic system of error, which everybody will see to be error. Oh,
                    dear no! That has never been Satan's way; but his plan has been to get hold of a
                    good man here and there, who shall creep in, as the Apostle said, unawares, and
                    preach another doctrine, and who shall deceive, if it were possible, the very
                    elect. And he did it. He accomplished his design. He gradually
                    lowered the standard of Christian life and character, and though, in every revival, God has raised it again to
                    a certain extent, we have never got back thoroughly to the simplicity, purity,
                    and devotion set before us in these Acts of the Apostles and in the Epistles.
                    And just in the degree that it has approximated thereto, in every age, Satan has
                    got somebody to oppose and to show that this was too high a standard for human
                    nature, altogether beyond us, and that, therefore, Christians must sit down and
                    just be content to be ‘Oh, wretched man that I am’ people to the end of their
                    days. He has got the Church into a condition that makes one, sometimes,
                    positively ashamed to hear professing Christians talk, and ashamed also that the
                    world should hear them talk. I do not wonder at thoughtful, intelligent men
                    being driven from such Christianity as this. It would have driven me off, if I
                    had not known the power of godliness. I believe this kind of
                    Christianity has made more infidels than all the infidel books ever written.
                Yes, Satan knew that he must get Christians down from the high pinnace of
                    whole-hearted consecration to God. He knew that he had no chance till he tempted
                    them down from that blessed vantage ground, qnd so he began to spread those
                    false doctrines, to counteract which John wrote his epistles, for, before he
                    died, he saw what was coming, and sounded down the ages—‘Little children, let no
                    man deceive you: he that doeth righteousness is righteous, even as He is
                    righteous. He that committeth sin is of the Devil; for the Devil sinneth from
                    the beginning. For this purpose the Son of God was manifested, that He might
                    destroy the works of the Devil.’ The Lord revive
                    that doctrine! Help us afresh to put up the standard!
                Oh! the great evil is, that dishonest-hearted people, because they feel it
                    condemns them, lower the standard to their miserable experience. I said, when I
                    was young, and I repeat it in my maturer years, that if it sent me to Hell I
                    would never pull it down. Oh! that God's people felt like that. There is the
                    glorious standard put before us. The power is proffered, the conditions laid
                    down, and we CAN all attain it if we will; but if we will not—for
                    the sake of the children, and for generations yet unborn, do not let us drag it
                    down, and try to make it meet our little, paltry, circumscribed experience.
                        LET US KEEP IT UP. This is the way to get the world to look at
                    it. Show the world a real, living, self-sacrificing, hard-working, toiling,
                    triumphing religion, and the world will be influenced by it; but anything short
                    of that they will turn round and spit upon.
                Secondly—Satan has deceived even those whom he could not succeed in
                    getting to lower the standard of their own lives with respect to their duties
                    and obligations to the world. I have been reading of late the New Testament with
                    special reference to the aggressive spirit of Primitive Christianity, and it is
                    wonderful what floods of light come upon you when you read the Bible with
                    reference to any particular topic on which you are seeking for help. When God
                    sees you are panting after the light, in order that you may use it, He
                        pours it in upon you. It is an indispensable condition of receiving
                    light that you are willing to follow it. People say they don't see this and that; no, because they do not wish
                    to see. They are not willing to walk in it, and, therefore, they do not get it;
                    but those who are willing to obey shall have all the light they want.
                It seems to me that we come infinitely short of any right and rational idea of
                    the aggressive spirit of the New Testament saints. Satan has got Christians to
                    accept what I may call a namby-pamby, kid-glove kind of system of presenting the
                    Gospel to people. ‘Will they be so kind as to read this tract or book, or would
                    they not like to hear this popular and eloquent preacher. They will be pleased
                    with him quite apart from religion.’ That is the sort of half-frightened, timid
                    way of putting the truth before unconverted people, and of talking to them about
                    the Salvation of their souls. It seems to me this is utterly antagonistic and
                    repugnant to the spirit of the early saints: ‘Go ye, and preach the Gospel to
                        EVERY CREATURE’; and again the same idea—‘Unto whom now I send
                    thee.’ Look what is implied in these commissions. It seems to me that no people
                    have ever yet fathomed the meaning of these two Divine commissions. I believe we
                    of The Salvation Army have come nearer to it than any people that have ever
                    preceded us. Look at them. Would it ever occur to you that the language meant,
                    ‘Go and build chapels and churches and invite the people to come in, and if they
                    will not, let them alone’? ‘GO YE.’ If you sent your servant to do
                    something for you, and said, ‘Go and accomplish that piece of business for me,’
                    you know what it would involve. You know that he must see certain persons; and
                    run about the city to certain offices and banks
                    and agents, involving a deal of trouble and sacrifice; but you have nothing to
                    do with that. He is your servant. He is employed by you to do that
                    business, and you simply commission him to ‘Go and do it.’ What would you think
                    if he went and took an office and sent out a number of circulars inviting your
                    customers or clients to come and wait on his pleasure, and when they chose to
                    come just to put your business before them? No, you would say, ‘Ridiculous.’
                    Divesting our minds of all conventionalities and traditionalisms, what would the
                    language mean? ‘Go ye!’ ‘To whom? ‘To every creature.’ Where am I to get at
                    them? WHERE THEY ARE. ‘Every creature.’ There is the extent of your
                    commission. Seek them out; run after them, wherever you can get at them. ‘Every
                    creature’—wherever you find a creature that has a soul—there go and preach My
                    Gospel to him. If I understand it, that is the meaning and the
                    spirit of the commission.
                And then again, to Paul He says, ‘Unto whom now I send thee, to open their eyes,
                        and to turn them from darkness to light, and
                        from the power of Satan unto God.’ They are asleep—go and wake
                    them up. They do not see their danger. If they did, there would be no necessity
                    for you to run after them. They are preoccupied. Open their eyes,
                    and turn them round by your desperate earnestness and moral suasion and moral
                    force; Oh! it makes me tremble to think what a great deal one man can do for
                    another! ‘Turn them from darkness to light, and from the power of Satan unto
                    God.’ How did Paul understand it? He says, ‘We persuade men.’ Do not rest content with just putting it before them,
                    giving them gentle invitations, and then leaving them alone. He ran after them,
                    poor things, and pulled them out of the fire. Take the bandage off their eyes
                    which Satan has bound round them; knock and hammer and burn in, with the fire of
                    the Holy Ghost, your words into their poor, hardened, darkened hearts, until
                    they begin to realize that they are IN DANGER; that there is
                    something amiss. Go after them. If I understand it, that is the spirit of the
                    Apostles and of the early Christians; for we read that when they were scattered
                    by persecution, they ‘went everywhere, preaching the Word.’ The
                    laity, the new converts, the young babes in Christ. It does not mean always in
                    set discourses, and public assemblies, but they went after men and women, like
                    ancient Israel—‘Every man after his man,’ to try and win him for Christ.
                Some people seem to think that the Apostles laid the foundations of all the
                    churches. They are quite mistaken. Churches sprang up where the Apostles had
                    never been. The Apostles went to visit and organize them after they had sprung
                    up, as the result of the work of the early laymen and women going everywhere and
                    preaching the Word. Oh! may the Lord shower upon us in this day the same spirit!
                    We should build churches and chapels; we should invite the people to them; but
                    do you think it is consistent with these two commissions, and with many others,
                    that we should rest in this, when three parts of the population utterly ignore
                    our invitations and take no notice whatever of our buildings and of our
                    services? They will not come
                    to us. That is an established fact. What is to be done? They have
                    souls. You profess to believe that as much as I do, and that they must live for
                    ever. Where are they going? What is to be done? Jesus Christ says, ‘Go after
                    them.’ When all the civil methods have failed; when the genteel invitations have
                    failed; when one man says that he has married a wife, and another that he has
                    bought a yoke of oxen, and another that he has bought a piece of land—then does
                    the Master of the feast say, ‘The ungrateful wretches, let them alone’? No. He
                    says, ‘Go out into the highways and hedges, and compel them to come in, that my
                    house may be filled.’ ‘I will have guests, and if you can't get them in by civil
                    measures, use military measures. Go and COMPEL them to come in.' It
                    seems to me that we want more of this determined aggressive spirit. Those of you
                    who are right with God this afternoon—you want more of this spirit to thrust the
                    truth upon the attention of your fellow-men.
                Oh! people say, you must be very careful, very judicious. You must not thrust
                    religion down people's throats. Then, I say, you will never get it down. What!
                    Am I to wait till an unconverted, godless man wants to be saved
                    before I try to save him? He will never want to be saved till the death-rattle
                    is in his throat. What! Am I to let my unconverted friends and acquaintances
                    drift down quietly to damnation, and never tell them about their souls, until
                    they say, ‘If you please, I want you to preach to me’? Is this anything like the
                    spirit of early Christianity? No. Verily we must make them
                    look—tear the bandages off, open their eyes,
                    make them bear it, and if they run away from you in one place, meet them in
                    another, and let them have no peace until they submit to God and get their souls
                    saved. This is what Christianity ought to be doing in this land,
                    and there are plenty of Christians to do it. Why, we might give the world such a
                    time of it that they would get saved in very self-defence, if we
                    were only up and doing, and determined that they should have no peace in their
                    sins. Where is our zeal for the Lord? We talk of Old Testament saints, but I
                    would we were all like David. Rivers of water ran down his eyes because men kept
                    not the Law of his God. But you say, ‘We cannot all hold services.’ Perhaps not.
                    Go as you like. Go as quietly and softly as the morning dew. Have meetings like
                    the Friends if you like. ONLY DO IT. Don't let your relatives, and
                    friends, and acquaintances die, and their blood be found on your skirts!!!
                I shall never forget the agony depicted on the face of a young lady who once came
                    to see me. My heart went out to her in pity. She told me her story. She said, ‘I
                    had a proud, ungodly father, and the Lord converted me three years before his
                    death, and, from the very day of my conversion, I felt I ought to talk to him,
                    and plead, and pray with him about his soul, but I could not muster up courage.
                    I kept intending to do it, and intending to do it, until he was taken ill. It
                    was a sudden and serious illness. He lost his mind, and died unsaved,’ and she
                    said, ‘I have never smiled since, and I think I never shall any more.’ Don't be
                    like that. Do it quietly, if you like; privately, if you like; but do it, and do
                    it as if you felt the value of their souls, and
                    as if you intended to save them, if by any possible means in your power it could
                    be done.
                I had been speaking in a town, in the West of England, on the subject of
                        responsibility of Christians for the Salvation of souls. The
                    gentleman with whom I was staying had winced a bit under the truth, and instead
                    of taking it to heart in love, and making it the means of drawing him nearer to
                    God, and enabling him to serve Him better, he said, ‘I thought you were rather
                    hard on us this morning.’ I said, ‘Did you? I should be very sorry to be harder
                    on anybody than the Lord Jesus Christ would be.’ He said, ‘You can push things
                    to extremes, you know. You were talking about seeking souls, and making
                    sacrifices. Now, you are aware that we build the chapels and churches, and pay
                    the ministers, and if the people won't be saved, we can't help it.’ (I think he
                    had given pretty largely to a chapel in the town.) I said, ‘It is very heartless
                    and ungrateful of the people, I grant; but, my dear sir, you would not reason
                    thus in any temporal matter. Suppose a plague were to break out in London, and
                    suppose that the Board of Health were to meet and to appropriate all the
                    hospitals and public buildings they could get to the treatment of those
                    diseased, and suppose they were to issue proclamations to say that whoever would
                    come to these buildings should be treated free of cost, and every care and
                    kindness bestowed on them, and, moreover, that the treatment would certainly
                    cure them; but, supposing the people were so blind to their own interests, so
                    indifferent and besotted that they refused to
                    come, and consequently, the plague was increasing and thousands dying, what
                    would you in the provinces say? Would you say, “Well, the Board of Health have
                    done what they could, and if the people will not go to be healed, they deserve
                    to perish; let them alone”? No, you would say, “It is certainly very foolish and
                    wicked of the people, but these men are in a superior position. They understand
                    the matter. They know and are responsible for the consequences. What in the
                    world are they going to do? Let the whole land be depopulated? No! If the people
                    will not come to them, they must go to the people, and force upon them the means
                    of health, and insist that proper measures should be used for the suppression of
                    the plague.”’ It needed no application. He understood it, and I believe, by the
                    Spirit of God, he was enabled to see his mistake, to take it home, and set to
                    work to do something for perishing souls.
                Men are preoccupied, and it is for us to go and force it upon their attention.
                    Remember, you can do it. There is some one soul that you have more
                    influence with than any other person on earth—some soul or souls. Are you doing
                    all you can for their Salvation? Your relatives, friends, and acquaintances
                        are to be rescued. Thank God! we are rescuing the poor people
                    all over the land by thousands. There they are, to be looked at, and talked
                    with, and questioned—people rescued from the depths of sin, degradation, and
                    woe—saved from the worst forms of crime and infamy; and, if He can do that, He
                    can save your genteel friends, if only you will go to them desperately and 
                        deter-
                        determinedly
                     minedly. Take them lovingly by the
                    button-hole, and say, ‘My dear friend, I never spoke to you closely, carefully,
                    and prayerfully about your soul.’ Let them see the tears in your eyes; or, if
                    you cannot weep, let them hear the tears in your voice, and let
                    them realize that you feel their danger, and are in distress for them. God will
                    give His Holy Spirit, and they will be saved.
                I was going to note that both texts imply opposition—for, He adds, ‘Lo, I am with
                    you alway, even to the end of the world.’ As much as if He had said, ‘You will
                    have need of My presence. Such aggressive, determined warfare as this will raise
                    all earth and Hell against you’; and then He says to Paul, ‘I will be with thee,
                    delivering thee from the people and the Gentiles unto whom I send thee.’ Why
                    would they need this? Because the Gentiles would soon be up in arms against
                    Him—and indeed they were.
                Opposition! It is a bad sign for the Christianity of this day that it provokes so
                    little opposition. If there were no other evidence of it being wrong, I should
                    know it from that. When the Church and the world can jog along comfortably
                    together, you may be sure there is something wrong. The world has not altered.
                    Its spirit is exactly the same as it ever was, and if Christians were equally
                    faithful and devoted to the Lord, and separated from the world, living so that
                    their lives were a reproof to all ungodliness, the world would hate them as much
                    as ever it did. It is the Church that has altered, not
                    the world. You say, ‘We should be getting into endless turmoil.’ Yes; ‘I came
                    not to bring peace on the earth, but a sword.’
                    There would be uproar. Yes; and the Acts of the Apostles are full of stories of
                    uproars. One uproar was so great that the Chief Captain had to get Paul over the
                    shoulders of the people lest he should have been torn in pieces. ‘What a
                    commotion!’ you say. Yes; and, bless God, if we had the like now we should have
                    thousands of sinners saved.
                ‘But,’ you say, ‘see what a very undignified position this would bring the Gospel
                    into.’ That depends on what sort of dignity you mean. You say, ‘We should always
                    be getting into collision with the powers that be, and with the world, and what
                    very unpleasant consequences would result.’ Yes, dear friends, there always have
                    been unpleasant consequences to the flesh, when people were following God and
                    doing His will. ‘But,’ you say, ‘wouldn't it be inconsistent with the dignity of
                    the Gospel?’ It depends from what standpoint you look at it. It depends upon
                    what really constitutes the dignity of the Gospel. What does constitute the
                    dignity of the Gospel? Is it human dignity, or is it Divine? Is it earthly, or
                    is it heavenly dignity? It was a very undignified thing, looked at humanly, to
                    die on a cross between two thieves. That was the most undignified thing ever
                    done in this world, and yet, looked at on moral and spiritual grounds, it was
                    the grandest spectacle that ever earth or Heaven gazed upon, and methinks that
                    the inhabitants of Heaven stood still and looked over the battlements at that
                    glorious, illustrious Sufferer, as He hung there between Heaven and earth. The
                    Pharisees, I know, spat upon the humbled Sufferer, and wagged their heads and said, ‘He saved others, Himself He
                    cannot save.’ Ah! but He was intent on saving others. That was the dignity of
                    Almighty strength allying itself with human weakness, in order to raise it. It
                    was the dignity of eternal wisdom shrouding itself in human ignorance, in order
                    to enlighten it. It was the dignity of everlasting, unquenchable love, baring
                    its bosom to suffer in the stead of its rebellious creature—man. Ah! it was
                    incarnate God standing in the place of condemned, apostate man —the dignity of
                    love! love!
                    LOVE!
                Oh, precious Saviour! save us from maligning Thy Gospel and Thy name by clothing
                    it with our paltry notions of earthly dignity, and forgetting the dignity which
                    crowned Thy sacred brow as Thou didst hang upon the cross! That is the dignity
                    for us, and it will never suffer by any gentleman here carrying the Gospel into
                    the back slums or alleys of any town or city in which he lives. That dignity
                    will never suffer by any employer talking lovingly to his servant maid or errand
                    boy, and looking into his eyes with tears of sympathy and love and trying to
                    bring his soul to Jesus. That dignity will never suffer even though you should
                    have to be dragged through the streets with a howling mob at your heels, like
                    Jesus Christ, if you have gone into those streets for the souls of your
                    fellow-men and the glory of God. Though you should be tied to a stake, as were
                    the martyrs of old, and surrounded by laughing and taunting fiends and their
                    howling followers—that will be a dignity which shall be crowned in Heaven,
                    crowned with everlasting glory. If I understand it, that is the
                    dignity of the Gospel—the dignity of love. I do
                    not envy, I do not covet any other. I desire no other—God is my Witness—than the
                    dignity of love.
                Oh, friends! will you get this baptism of love! Then you will, like the Apostles,
                    be willing to push your limbs into a basket, and so be let down by the wall, if
                    need be, or suffer shipwreck, hunger, peril, nakedness, fire, or sword, or even
                    go to the block itself, if thereby you may extend His Kingdom and win souls for
                    whom He shed His Blood. The Lord fill us with this love and baptise us with this
                    fire, and then the Gospel will arise and become glorious in the earth, and men
                    will believe in us, and in it. They will feel its power, and they will go down
                    under it by thousands, and, by the grace of God, they SHALL.
            
            
                
                A PURE GOSPEL
                
                A PURE GOSPEL
                
                    Acts xxvi. 15-20.
                    —‘And I said, Who art Thou, Lord? And He said, I am Jesus whom thou
                        persecutest. But rise, and stand upon thy feet: for I have appeared unto
                        thee for this purpose, to make thee a minister and a witness both of these
                        things which thou hast seen, and of those things in the which I will appear
                        unto thee: delivering thee from the people, and from the Gentiles, unto whom
                        now I send thee, to open their eyes, and to turn them from darkness to
                        light, and from the power of Satan unto God, that they may receive
                        forgiveness of sins, and inheritance among them which are sanctified by
                        faith that is in Me. Whereupon, O king Agrippa, I was not disobedient unto
                        the heavenly vision: but shewed first unto them of Damascus, and at
                        Jerusalem, and throughout all the coasts of Judea, and then to the Gentiles,
                        that they should repent and turn to God, and do works meet for
                        repentance.’
                
                THE
                    second indispensable condition we are going to note this afternoon
                    to Aggressive Christianity is, a Pure Gospel. I mean by that, God's
                    own pure metal—the unadulterated Gospel of Jesus Christ.
                There seems, nowadays, in the Church and the world, as many different views of
                    the Gospel as there are of secondary matters and of minor doctrines. One person
                    has one notion of the Gospel, another has another, until there has come to be a
                    fearful distraction in the minds of many who are constantly listening to what is
                    called the Gospel. May God the Holy Ghost help us this afternoon to look at it
                    impartially and carefully.
                And, firstly, let me try to define what is the
                        Gospel. ‘Oh!’ people say, ‘it is
                    good news.’ Yes, thank God, it is good news, indeed—news without which we must
                    all have been lost. It is the news of the free, measureless, undeserved,
                    reconciling mercy of God, offered to me through the vicarious, infinite,
                    glorious sacrifice of His Son, to the end that I may BE SAVED from
                    sin here and from Hell hereafter!! But this news involves a great deal. It is
                    the news of a definite, practical end, involving conditions; for even good news
                    to me involves certain conditions on my part, if I am to procure the good which
                    the news brings. Then, secondly, I will try to explain the
                    conditions on which the Gospel is available to me.
                Let me illustrate this; and I am particularly anxious that you should all
                    understand me. Supposing that a province of this empire were in rebellion
                    against our Sovereign. Supposing that the people of that province had trampled
                    under foot our laws, and set up their own in opposition; and suppose the Queen,
                    in her gracious clemency, desired not to destroy these rebels, but to save them,
                    what would be the necessary and indispensable condition in the very nature of
                    the case, in order for her to save them? Not merely a proclamation of pardon.
                    That would be a glorious movement towards the result, but there would want
                    something else; for a proclamation of pardon merely, whilst the rebels remained
                    in an unchanged state, would only be giving them greater facilities for further
                    rebellion. Evidently, in the nature of the case, it is a necessity that a change
                    of mind should be produced in the rebels themselves, for the Queen not only
                    wants to save them from destruction, but to restore them to 
                        allegi-
                        allegiance
                     ance and obedience to herself, and,
                    unless she does this, they will never become dutiful and obedient subjects.
                    There will never be anything but anarchy, confusion, and rebellion in that
                    province unless those rebels undergo a change of mind. They must be brought back
                    to allegiance and obedience to the Queen.
                Just so with God's proclamation of Salvation. The mischief is in us. Take the
                    illustration of the Prodigal Son. The mischief was all in him—not in his father.
                    The father loved him before he went away, and the father loved him afterwards.
                    The father's benevolent heart yearned over him all the time he was away, and
                    many a time, perchance, he went to the roof of his house to look over the
                    expanse of country over which the rebellious lad had gone and wondered whether
                    he would ever come back. The father's heart was yearning over him all the time.
                    How was it that he could not be reinstated in the father's love and in the
                    family privileges? Because there needed a change of heart—a change of mind in
                        HIM. If he had come back to the old homestead with the same
                    rebellious spirit in him, the same desire to be free from the father's
                    oversight, the same unwillingness to be put under the FATHER's
                        DOMINION and DISCIPLINE, he would still have been a
                    rebel and a prodigal. In the very nature of the case, until there was the
                    necessary change, a wise and righteous father could not pardon him; he must
                    insist, though he loves him dearly, upon a certain change of mind before he can
                    consistently pardon him.
                Just so. The laws of mind are the same when
                    operated upon by either God or man. This is not laying any necessity upon God
                    any more than He has laid upon Himself. He has made us with a certain mental
                    constitution, and therefore He must adapt the conditions and means of our
                    Salvation to that mental constitution, otherwise He would reflect upon His own
                    wisdom in having given it to us at the first. Therefore when He purposes to save
                    man He must save him as man—not as a beast or a machine! He must
                    save him as man, and He must propound such a scheme as will fit and adapt itself
                    to man's nature. Just as the father might not pardon the prodigal, irrespective
                    of the prodigal's state of mind and heart, so neither can God pardon the sinner
                    irrespective of the state of his mind and heart.
                I know, by personal contact with hundreds of souls, that there is an alarming
                    amount of misunderstanding and of what I consider false apprehension of the
                    Gospel of Christ at this point. Hence, you have speakers saying, without
                    anything to guard or qualify their words, ‘Only believe, and you shall be
                    saved’; ‘Whosoever believeth hath everlasting life.’ Blessed and glorious truth,
                        when rightly applied, and applied to the right characters; but
                    dangerous error, in my opinion, when applied indiscriminately to
                        unawakened, unrepenting, rebellious sinners. I have met with
                    disastrous consequences of this all over the land—so disastrous that I would not
                    like to repeat them here. Now, I say, we should be careful to let the people
                    understand what we mean by the Gospel: I dare not do any other. I am so
                    satisfied of the thousands of souls that are deceived at this point, that, while
                    God gives me voice to speak, I dare not but try
                    to warn them, and show them their fatal mistake.
                Returning to our illustration—you say, ‘The man is, so to speak, dead in
                    trespasses and sins. How can he see his own error? How can he lay down the
                    weapons of rebellion? How can he, by himself, come back to the Father?’ Granted.
                    Hence, God, in His wisdom and love, has provided for that incapacity which man
                    has induced by his rebellion, by the gift of His Spirit. You say, ‘The parallel
                    is not perfect between your illustration and the thing illustrated.’ No, it is
                    not in that point; because temporal rebels can find out by themselves the
                    insanity and wickedness of their course. They can see where it will lead them.
                    They can see the destructive consequences, and be sorry for the course they have
                    taken. They can lay down their weapons of rebellion, and they can conform to the
                    conditions on which the Queen issues her proclamation. You say, ‘Yes,
                        that they can do, but this man cannot.’ Of course,
                    because he has so hardened his heart that even if he can, he never
                        will without the Holy Spirit of God. Hence, God has taken
                    compassion on us, and sent His Spirit into the world for this purpose—‘To
                    convince the world of sin, of righteousness, and of judgment.’ Thus He opens our
                    eyes, and shows us our lost estate. Having, by the Holy Ghost, made us realize
                    our desperate condition, then comes the Gospel to meet us just where we are, on
                    condition that we abandon our evil ways, and do the works meet for repentance,
                    which we are able to do by the power of the Holy Spirit, as well as
                    to lay down the weapons of our rebellion and accept of Christ, put our neck
                        under His yoke, and pledge ourselves in
                    heart to FOLLOW HIM ALL THE DAYS OF OUR LIFE. These are the
                    conditions involved, and this is the end the Gospel contemplates, and there you
                    see the Gospel accomplishes its END in this case. The heart of the
                    rebel is won back to its Lord, and the indispensable change has taken place in
                    the being himself. He has come back to God. His eyes are opened to
                    see the evil of sin, and the desperate state he is in. Tired of himself, and
                    tired of his evil ways, as the Prodigal was of the swineyard, he arises, leaves
                    them, and goes to his father.
                But now I must stop to meet a difficulty which I know will arise in many sincere
                    minds. I feel myself such a tender jealousy for the glory of God, that I do
                    highly respect this feeling in others, and if any one disagrees with my views,
                    or my way of putting them, through a feeling of jealousy for the glory of God,
                    they have my profound respect. You will say, ‘If we are able to abandon our evil
                    courses, and lay down the weapons of rebellion, is that not saving ourselves?’
                    No, dear friends; it is altogether different. You see it is the indispensable
                    condition of Salvation in every one of the nine passages we read, and in many
                    others—that we abandon our evil ways. Now, what does that mean? A gentleman in a
                    letter to me said, ‘We cannot save ourselves from heart sins.’ Granted; but we
                    can will to be saved from them. Then, there is a great distinction
                    between those sins of the heart, which are involuntary, and those deliberate
                    transgressions of God's law, which unregenerate men commit. God requires me to
                    abandon all that I CAN, as a condition of Salvation, and then, when He saves, He will give me
                    power to abandon all that I could; not before. The Prodigal had to come away
                    from the swine-yard, the filth, and the husks, before he got into the father's
                    house, and sat down at the father's feast, but when he had done so, then the
                    father said, ‘Come in,’ and he brought the best robe and put it on him, and
                    killed the fatted calf, and put the ring of forgiveness upon his hand. Hence, as
                    the old divines used to put it, ‘You must wait for the Lord in the path of His
                    ordinances,’ the path of obedience, as far as is possible to you. And is there
                    any other way? Can the drunkard wait for Him while he abides at his cup? Can the
                    thief wait for Him while he continues in his diabolical trade? Can any man
                    indulging in absolute open sin find the Lord? Must he not, as the Saviour says,
                    cut off that right hand, and pluck out that right eye? He never can cleanse his
                    guilt, but he CAN cut off his hand, and when he does that, then the
                    Holy Spirit will come in and apply the Blood, and do the cleansing.
                Therefore, you perceive, I take the Gospel to be aiming not merely at saving, but
                        restoring us. If it were merely to save me without restoring
                    me, what would it do for me? As a moral agent, if the Gospel fails to PUT
                        ME RIGHT it will fail eternally to make me happy; and if you were to
                    transplant me before the throne, and put me down in the inner circle of
                    archangels with a sense of wrong in my heart, being morally out of harmony with
                    the laws of God, and the moral laws of the universe, I should be as miserable as
                    if I were in Hell, and should want to get away. I must be MADE
                        RIGHT, as well as treated as if I
                    were right. I must be changed as well as justified. This is the Gospel put as
                    clearly in our text as it could be, and also the Epistles written by the Apostle
                    Paul, the great expounder of the doctrine of justification by faith. It was
                    through the lips of the glorified Lord Himself, after He had risen to the great
                    Apostle of the Gentiles, after the Gospel dispensation was fully opened, that
                    this most unmistakable commission was given, ‘Unto whom now I send thee to
                        open their eyes.’ What to? Their sins. As Peter opened the eyes
                    of the murderers of our Lord, on the Day of Pentecost, ‘Whom ye have crucified
                    and slain,’ driving in the convicting truth of God until, in their agony, they
                    cried out, ‘WHAT MUST WE DO?’ He tore off the bandages which Satan
                    had wrapped around them, and drove them as with the schoolmaster's lash, until
                    he drove them to the Cross of the crucified One. ‘Open their eyes’—that is the
                    first thing. Oh! how my soul has often shrunk and wept under the sense of the
                    awful responsibility this brings upon us Christians. The world is asleep. Yes,
                    friends, your relations, your neighbours—they are asleep. They are preoccupied.
                    They are full of the world, and the things of the world. They will not
                    think—they will not see—they will not look into the Word of Life. Your
                    responsibility comes here tenfold. Go AND WAKE THEM! You CAN
                        DO IT, if you have the Holy Ghost in you!
                Some people would have said to the Lord Jesus, ‘What a great deal you are making
                    of human agency, for, after all, Paul is but a man, and you are setting him to
                    open the eyes of the unconverted, and turn them
                    from darkness to light, and from the power of Satan unto God. Are you not making
                    too much of human effort? But the Lord Jesus knew what He was about. He knew
                    that Paul had a power in him which every really renewed child of God has—the
                    Holy Ghost—to equip him for this work; and He says, ‘Unto whom now I send thee
                    to open their eyes.’ Go and awake them to a sense of their danger.
                    Take them, metaphorically speaking, by the collar and shake them and make them
                    realize their peril, as you would if they were asleep in a burning house!! And
                    then when you have awakened them, what are you to do? Leave them alone? No, no,
                    for Christ's sake, no! Take hold of them by the mighty power of your moral
                    suasion and zeal, and love, and energy, and turn them right round from sin and
                    Satan unto God.
                Jesus Christ set Paul to do this, and Paul did it. He says,
                    ‘Knowing, therefore, the terror of the Lord, we persuade men.’ His was no meek
                    and mild putting of the truth, and leaving people to do as they liked. ‘Knowing,
                    therefore, the TERROR of the Lord, we PERSUADE men,
                    because we thus judge that if one died for all, then were all dead’; and, oh!
                    what success the Lord gave him in his desperate enterprise. What multitudes did
                    he persuade, and succeed in turning round from darkness to light, and from the
                    power of Satan unto God! Turn them round! ‘Oh! but,’ you say, ‘if they are
                    turned round from darkness, which represents evil, to light, which represents
                    righteousness, are they not saved?’ No, not yet. This is only the change
                    effected in their will, which is beautifully exemplified by Paul in Romans vii.—willing to keep the law, willing to obey
                    God, willing to do His will, and follow Him; yea, struggling, but yet unable;
                    though they are brought round from the voluntary choice or embrace of evil, and
                    the voluntary service of the Devil, round to the voluntary choice and embrace of
                    righteousness and the service of God, they are not yet able to do
                    it.
                Now, friends, don't say I said they were able. Don't misrepresent
                    me, as some people do. I will try to be clear, and I say there is all the
                        difference in the world between BEING WILLING TO LET JESUS CHRIST SAVE ME
                        FROM MY SINS, AND SAVING MYSELF FROM THEM. It is exactly this change
                    in the attitude of the will which God demands as a CONDITION OF THE
                        EXERCISE OF HIS POWER. It is so in all the miracles. ‘Wilt thou be
                    made whole?’ He says to the man with the withered hand, ‘Stretch out thy hand.’
                    The man might have said, ‘Lord, what an unreasonable request. Are You come to
                    mock me in my misery?’ Oh! but Jesus Christ knew what He wanted in the man. He
                    wanted the response of the MAN'S WILL. He wanted the man to say,
                    ‘Yes, Lord’; and when He said that, the Lord put the strength into the
                    shoulder-bone, and He stretched it out, and it was made whole. There are many
                    souls just there—they will not say, ‘Yes, Lord,’ to some condition which the
                    Spirit puts upon them. I could give you some heartrending illustrations on this
                    point. I am satisfied that this Gospel-enlightened England of ours is full of
                    people just at this point, who come crying, and praying, and longing, as they
                    call it, after God. They come up to Jesus Christ again and again. They try to believe; they want to follow Him, but they are
                    kept back by the right hand and the right eye which the Holy Ghost has told them
                    they must cut off and pluck out before He will receive them. They will not do
                    it, and so they are ever learning, and never able to come to a knowledge of the
                    truth. You must renounce evil in your will. You must will to ‘obey
                    the truth.’ You must say, ‘Yes, Lord.’
                I remember, on one occasion, in the West of England, I had been delivering
                    week-day morning addresses. We had a blessed Meeting on this particular day. We
                    began at half-past ten, and the Lord was so with us that He supplied the want of
                    refreshment till we had it at 5.30. He made up for the want of dinner or tea. A
                    gentleman was there, with whose appearance I was struck. He was tall, and
                    intelligent, a man of about forty or forty-five. He knelt down without any
                    emotion, more than deep solemnity, at the end of the Communion rail. I had been
                    talking about the reason people walked in darkness—controversy with the Holy
                    Spirit. I said to him, ‘My dear sir, have you had a controversy with the Holy
                    Spirit?’ ‘Yes,’ he said, ‘I have had one for fifteen years. I am ashamed to say
                    it, and it has eaten up all the joy and power of my Christian life, and I have
                    been a useless cumberer of the ground.’ I did not know till afterwards that he
                    was a deacon of the church, and had come up there in the sight of all the
                    congregation. I said, ‘Well, my dear sir, you know the Gospel as well as I do.
                    It is of no use to preach faith to you until you are willing to renounce your
                    idol.’ He said, most emphatically, ‘I know it.’ I said, ‘Are you willing?’ Oh, with what tenacity the human heart holds on to
                    its idols! Though he had come up to the rail in the face of that congregation,
                    so deeply was he under the power of the Spirit, yet he hesitated. I said, ‘Well,
                    my dear sir, you must make up your mind. In your case, it is between the choice
                    of this, whatever it may be, and Christ’; and I retired under the pulpit pillars
                    for a minute, and left him to himself and the Lord. I lifted up my heart to God
                    for him, and then I went back, and said, ‘Will you renounce it?’ and, lifting up
                    his eyes to Heaven, and, bringing his hand down upon the Communion rail, he
                    said, ‘By the grace of God, I do,’ and his whole frame heaved with agony, but he
                    stepped into immediate liberty. His blessed Saviour was waiting with arms wide
                    open. There was only this accursed thing which had stood between them, and when
                    he trampled it under his feet, and was willing to forsake it, as a natural
                    consequence, he sprang into the everlasting arms, and received the assurance of
                    Salvation. It was all over the town for the next fortnight. People remarked,
                    ‘Did you ever see such a change come over a man, as has come over Mr. So-and-so?
                    He is like a new man. He prays in the Prayer Meeting with such fervour. He was
                    at the chapel doors, speaking to the unconverted, and inviting them to come
                    back. He is visiting up and down the town—why, he's a new man!’ Was there any
                    change in the Gospel? Had he received any fresh light? It was only the old
                    story—only that he had put away the idol, and trampled under foot that which was
                    keeping the life-power of God out of his soul.
                
                Here is another case. At some services in the West of England, a gentleman,
                    largely interested in an unlawful business, came every night for five weeks, and
                    used to sit there, the picture of despair and wretchedness, till after ten
                    o'clock. He went on in this way until his friends thought he would lose his
                    reason. He was walking about his bedroom with his Bible open, kneeling down
                    every now and then, struggling and wrestling and trying to believe; but every
                    time he thought of this ungodly business which he could not give up, despair
                    seized him, for he thought of his money—he thought of the consequences to his
                    family; until at last he said, ‘Money or no money, I will settle it.’ He gave it
                    up, came out, and got saved at once.
                Now I think these illustrations make clear what I mean, by the abandonment, the
                    turning from the embrace of evil to the embrace of righteousness as an
                    indispensable condition of forgiveness. Hence the Holy Ghost has carefully
                    maintained this order—‘to open their eyes and to turn them (round) from darkness
                    to light, and from the power of Satan unto God that they may receive forgiveness
                    of sins and an inheritance among them that are sanctified by faith that is in
                    me.’ You see what a different thing this is to presenting Christ to people just
                    as they are, where they are, doing what they like. You see what a
                    different Gospel it comes to, insisting upon a thorough renouncement and
                    abandonment of evil as a condition of Jesus Christ receiving the sinner. This
                    was Paul's Gospel. Will you give me any other definition of it? Can you explain
                    it in any other way? Paul goes on to show us, how he understood: ‘Whereupon, O King Agrippa, I was not
                    disobedient unto the heavenly vision: but shewed first unto them of Damascus and
                    at Jerusalem: and then to the Gentiles, that they should repent and turn to God,
                    and do works meet for repentance. Was this like saying ‘Only
                        believe’? without respect to any antecedent change of mind? Can
                    anybody show me anything here in the slightest degree approximating to the
                    Antinomian Gospel which has been grafted on to some other of Paul's utterances?
                    And yet surely the Apostle could not contradict himself. His writings about
                    faith must be in harmony with this most unmistakable putting of the Gospel to
                    both Jews and Gentiles. Moreover, did he tell Agrippa and Festus to believe? No,
                    he left them trembling at his words, because they were not willing to abandon
                    their sins and put away the accursed thing; but to the Philippian jailer, who
                    said, ‘Men and brethren, what must I do?’ and who brought them out and began to
                    wash their stripes, thus doing works meet for repentance at once, he said,
                    ‘Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved.’ Ah, my friend, you
                    may try to get hold of Christ to your dying hour and at the last be lost, while
                    you are holding on to your idols. If He could have saved us after that fashion,
                    we needed no Christ, we could have gone into Heaven without a Saviour; but He
                    came to save His people from their sins, and while you are in love
                    with your sins, you may struggle and tremble as Agrippa and Felix did, and as
                    the young Ruler did, and you will meet a similar fate. You must let go your
                    idols and be willing that Jesus should come and save you; not down among the dirt and mud of sin, but lift you out
                    of it: wash you: make you clean: and keep you clean: circumcise your
                        hearts; and put His law in them; and then you shall know the gladness
                    of His Salvation!
                I have some people writing to me in this condition. If they are here this
                    afternoon, let me say to them—This is what you have to do—let go your idols and
                    say as the gentleman said of whom I have told you, ‘Poverty or no poverty,
                    business or no business, position or no position, suffering or prosperity; never
                    mind—Christ, Christ, I let go all for Thee!’
                Have you forsaken evil? Have you cut off the right hand? Have you plucked out the
                    right eye? I have people coming to me in services of this character, groaning
                    and sometimes worn to skeletons. They tell me they are in distress, they have
                    got into bondage, they want the joy of the Lord and His daily fellowship; and
                    when I ask the reason, they generally say, ‘Well, I don't know, but it seems to
                    be want of faith.’ Now, I say to such people:
                ‘Now let us see what this want of faith arises from.’ There must be a cause. I am
                    afraid that sin lieth at the door, and when we come to close quarters, we
                    generally find there is some idol, some course of conduct, or some
                        doubtful conduct which keeps God out of the soul, and when this
                    is confessed and renounced people get the presence of God and go away rejoicing
                    in Him. It is so in nearly every case. God does not arbitrarily withdraw Himself
                    from His people. He wants to dwell with them. We are His proper abode. He has
                    promised to come and abide with his people, and if He does not, depend upon it there is something in the temple offensive to
                    Him, something with which He will not dwell. Will you put that away, and
                    consecrate your hearts this day unto the Lord to be His temple, His temple only,
                    and leave consequences with Him? He will be able to look after His own.
                Then, lastly, when you have come to this decision, then look and live; take the
                    final leap into the arms of a crucified Saviour. With some souls who have been
                    the subjects of the drawings of the Spirit for years, the difficulty is in the
                    surrendering of their wills. They have learned to reason with God; they have
                    lost the little children's way; they are afraid to take the final leap, and
                    there they stand before the Cross, not conscious of anything between them and
                    Christ. What are you to do? What Paul told the Philippian jailer to
                    do—‘Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ’; and you say, ‘What is that, and how am I
                    to believe?’ Wonderful how it has got mystified! Believe what? That He just
                    means what He says; and that when you come, He does receive—not He will
                    to-morrow, nor He did yesterday, but that He does now, this moment. When did He
                    receive the sinners who came to Him on earth? When they came. Just the same will
                    He receive you. ‘Oh, but,’ you say, ‘I do not feel right.’ No, of course not. Do
                    you not see, you are to be saved by faith. If you are to be saved
                    by faith, you must exercise faith before you will be saved. If it is by faith
                    you are to be saved, you must believe first, and be saved afterwards; if it is
                    only the next second. ‘But,’ you say, ‘I do not feel it.’ No, but you will feel
                    it when you have got it. You must believe it before you get it, on the testimony of His Word—‘I will in no
                    wise cast you out’; ‘Him that cometh’; ‘Now I come, Lord, I come. I have put
                    away my idols; I have put away everything that consciously stood between me and
                    Thee. I will to serve Thee, I will to follow Thee, I will to put my
                        neck under Thy yoke for ever, asking no more questions, but
                    being willing for Thee to lead me whithersoever Thou wilt. Now, Lord, I
                    come—Thou dost receive.’ Leap off the poor old stranded wreck of your own
                    effort, or your own righteousness, or your own sinfulness, or your own
                    unworthiness, or anything else of your own, into the glorious life-boat. It is
                    on the top of the wave this afternoon—another step, and you will be in—one
                    bound, and you will feel the loving arms of your Saviour around you. Faith is
                    trust, TRUST. He will do for you what He promised. Believe that God
                    does now accept you wholly for the sake of the sacrifice of His blessed
                        Son; that He justifies you freely from all things from which you
                    could not be justified by the law. You stand a condemned, guilty, Hell-bound
                    criminal, and nothing but His free, sovereign mercy can save you. Throw yourself
                    upon this, and the moment you do so in real faith you will be saved. Perhaps you
                    will say, as a curate of the Church of England, writing to me last week, said,
                    ‘I refuse to be saved by logic.’ Amen, amen. So did I, and I struggled for six
                    weeks because I refused to be saved by logic—because I would have a
                    living, personal Christ. I admire your decision, my brother, if you are here,
                    but let this logic help you: nevertheless, Jesus Christ has promised, if I come,
                    that He will receive me—then, I do come, and He does receive me, for He cannot lie. Let that help you. Faith is not
                    logic, but logic may help faith.
                Oh! how I should rejoice if some of you were to launch into the arms of Jesus
                    this afternoon. It often happens that while I am speaking souls do
                    get into the ark of God's mercy, and come, or write to tell me afterwards that
                    the Spirit has come, and he is crying ‘Abba Father,’ and now they
                        KNOW they have passed from death unto life. They don't want
                    logic then. It is a matter of demonstration with them. When you have come up to
                    the place where saving faith is possible to you, you have no more to do, no more
                    to suffer, no more to pay. By simple trust we are saved. This is the way every
                    saint on earth was saved. This is the way every saint in glory was saved. This
                    is the way we are kept saved too, by LIVING DAILY, OBEDIENT FAITH.
                    The Lord help you just now. Let the idol go. Put away the ungodly companion.
                    Give up the unlawful business, or the worldly conformity. Put away whatever has
                    stood between you and Jesus. Trample it under foot and press through the crowd
                    of difficulties as the woman did, and go right up and touch Him with this touch
                    of faith, and you shall LIVE and KNOW THAT YOU ARE
                        HEALED. Then this Gospel will be good news indeed to you, and Jesus
                    will be the author of eternal Salvation to you, because you OBEY
                        HIM! 
            
            
                
                ADAPTATION OF MEASURES
                
                ADAPTATION OF MEASURES
                I HAVE chosen this afternoon five or six different passages all
                    exhibiting the principle of Adaptation, on which I am to speak. The first is 1
                    Corinthians ix. 20-22:
                
                    ‘And unto the Jews I became as a Jew, that I might gain the Jews; to them
                        that are under the law, as under the law, that I might gain them that are
                        under the law; to them that are without law, as without law (being not
                        without law to God, but under the law to Christ), that I might gain them
                        that are without law.’
                
                To them that are without law as without law; but here he carefully guards himself
                    by a parenthesis, lest he should seem to favour a lawless Antinomian Gospel,
                    ‘not without law to God,’ not independent of the great moral law, ‘but under the
                    law to Christ,’ in which is fulfilled ALL LAW.
                
                    ‘To the weak became I as weak, that I might gain the weak: I am made all
                        things to all men, that I might by all means save some.’
                
                ‘To the weak became I as weak’—masterpiece of human humility! Most people want to
                    appear strong, but here is a man coming down, and appearing a weak man, that he
                    might win the weak. That is the humility of Jesus Christ:
                The Lord give us the like spirit! Again, 1 Corinthians xii. 4-6:
                
                    ‘Now there are diversities of gifts, but the same spirit; and there are
                        differences of administration, but the same Lord; and there are diversities
                        of operations, but it is the same God which worketh all in all.’
                
                
                Some people want the Spirit to work in every one alike, and in all times the
                    same, but He chooses to have diversities. Again, Galatians iii. 27,
                    28:
                
                    ‘For as many of you as have been baptized into Christ have put on Christ.
                        There is neither Jew nor Greek; there is neither bond nor free; there is
                        neither male nor female; for ye are all one in Christ Jesus.’
                
                That is, so far as the privileges, duties, and obligations of Christ's kingdom
                    are concerned, there is neither nationality nor sex; and Galatians v. 6:
                
                    ‘For in Jesus Christ neither circumcision availeth anything, nor
                        uncircumcision; but faith which worketh by love.’
                
                All mere ordinances and ceremonies come under the Apostle's term ‘circumcision.’
                    And 2 Timothy iv. 2:
                
                    ‘Preach the word: be instant in season, out of season; reprove, rebuke,
                        exhort with all longsuffering and doctrine.’
                
                What a hue and cry there is because we Salvation Army people save men ‘out of
                    season’! And Jude 22, 23:
                
                    ‘And of some have compassion, making a difference: and others save with fear,
                        pulling them out of the fire.’
                
                ‘Oh, no,’ say some of our conventional friends, ‘you should not make a
                    difference.’ Nevertheless, in all these six texts the principle of
                        Adaptation is most distinctly laid down.
                Now, we have spent the two last Sabbath afternoons in trying to point out our
                    view of the characteristics of a pure Gospel, and I think we have succeeded in
                    doing this so clearly that no person who followed us carefully can imagine for
                        a moment that we would hold or teach any
                    adaptation of the Gospel itself. As we stated before, we deemed this so above
                    all adaptation—so above any change, that we would not be responsible for
                    transposing its order, much less altering its matter, that we would not take a
                    dot off one of the ‘i's,’ so sacredly intact do we believe the Gospel of Christ
                    in its matter ought to be kept. We believe also that the ORDER of
                    God ought to be strictly maintained; that it is as rational and true in
                    philosophy as it is in divinity; and that the way the Spirit operates upon the
                    minds of men is just the same as ever. This we clearly and most carefully
                    pointed out, so that what we have to say this afternoon, you will please bear in
                    mind, has nothing to do with the GOSPEL MESSAGE ITSELF. We have
                    tried to show our idea (or what we believe to be the Holy Spirit's idea) of a
                    pure Gospel; but when we come to speak of modes and measures, that is quite
                    another thing. I think, from the texts we have read, and from many others
                    equally plain and relevant, that we find a most easily gathered truth running
                    all the way through the New Testament, namely, that forms and ceremonies are
                    nothing except as they embody and express real spiritual life and truth. That
                    circumcision is nothing, and that uncircumcision is nothing; baptism is nothing,
                    and being unbaptized is nothing; the Lord's Supper is nothing, and abstaining
                    from the Lord's Supper is nothing, in itself, as a matter of form, for he
                    embraces under circumcision all mere outward forms and ceremonies; all these are
                    nothing, but ‘KEEPING THE COMMANDMENTS OF GOD’: that is, you may
                    have all these performed upon you, and
                    regularly perform them yourselves, and be but sounding brass and tinkling
                    cymbals, if you keep not the commandments of God; for circumcision availeth
                    nothing, in another place, and uncircumcision availeth nothing, but faith—of
                    what sort?—that WORKETH BY LOVE: that proves its obedience by its
                    deeds. Therefore, we start with that fundamental truth lying clearly before us
                    in every page of the New Testament, that forms and ceremonies, whatsoever they
                    may be, are nothing except as they embody and represent REAL SPIRITUAL
                        LIFE, and truth and action—action! Now, it was the great
                    sin—the crowning condemnation of the Jews—that they had frittered away the
                    spirituality and practical bearing of the Divine Law, clinging to those forms
                    and ceremonies which were instituted only to embody and symbolize it. Would to
                    God they had let go the form when they let go the spirit. Jesus Christ wishes
                    they had. He tells them it would have been far better. He told them they were
                    children of the Devil, notwithstanding their holding on to their relationship to
                    Abraham and all the outward forms and ceremonies of their ritual.
                They had better have come out and avowed themselves unbelievers, than have gone
                    on professing to be the children of God, while they were doing the work of the
                    Devil. But they would not receive this teaching. It was too cutting for them,
                    and so they would not have it. It was true, nevertheless. They held on to the
                    form whilst the spirit had gone. They were ‘making clean the outside of the
                    platter, but within they are full of extortion and excess, appearing beautiful outward, but within they are full
                    of dead men's bones and all uncleanness.’ And, dear friends, all corpses are
                    very much alike, when the spirit is gone out of them—no is found to be about as
                    good as another.
                Alas! there is this tendency still in our fallen human nature. It is so much
                    easier, or Satan makes it look so much easier, to an unregenerate man, to rest
                    in a form, than to seek till he finds the spiritual grace which that form
                    represents. That is to say, it is so much easier for an unregenerate man to be
                    circumcised, or to be baptized, as the case may be, to partake of the Lord's
                    Supper, to keep outwardly the Sabbath Day, to abstain from acts of immorality
                    and open sin, and to be decently moral and religious—all this he can understand
                    and do for himself, and it looks to him so much easier, and so it is, in the
                    first instance, than bringing his evil, unregenerate heart to God for Him to
                    circumcise it, and write His law in it, as He promises to do under the new
                    covenant.
                Now, that is what God wants every man to do. He wants him to bring this
                        heart to Him, and let Him renew it. He says, ‘I
                    will circumcise your hearts to keep My law.’ But, no! the unregenerate man rests
                    in the outward form. He will not be at the trouble to sacrifice his idols, and
                    cry mightily unto God. He will not seek until he attains the fulfilment of these
                    promises; so he sits down and rests in the form.
                Alas! alas! how many thousands in this so-called Christian England of ours to-day
                    are just there. They have got the form; they are like the Jews—they are Pharisees with a Christian creed instead of a
                    Jewish, the same in CHARACTER, only different in name. That is all
                    the difference, hanging on to the creed of Jesus Christ, while they know nothing
                    of its spirit; the form without the power; and they deny their professed Lord
                    every day. Oh! are there any of this class here? My friend, my friend, if you
                    never find it out until you come to die, you will find it out then, but it may
                    be too late. May God, the Holy Spirit, help you to find it out this afternoon,
                    and bring that unrenewed, unrepentant, evil heart of yours to the Cross; bring
                    it to God, and wait, and weep, if need be, and struggle, and knock, and cry, as
                    He tells you, until He does renew it and write His law in it; then the outward
                    form will be the expression of the inward grace. Then the fruit will be good,
                    because it springs from a good root inside. The Lord help you!
                This tendency to rest in form is just as great as ever, and instead of putting
                    away their idols, and bringing their conscience to be cleansed and kept clean by
                    the precious Blood, prayerfully and carefully walking before God, striving in
                    all things to please Him, people get an outside form, but LIVE just
                    like the world around them, calling Jesus, ‘Lord, Lord,’ but doing not the
                    things that He says. Now, I say that a pure Gospel requires that we bring our
                    evil HEARTS to God to be renewed, and that we resolutely put away
                    our idols, and that we wait on Him by the Cross until He renews our motives,
                    tempers, tendencies, feelings, and dispositions, and makes us new creatures in
                    Christ Jesus. Instead of doing this, people go on being circumcised or baptized, as the Jews did, and they call themselves
                    ‘Israel,’ as they did; whereas, of the spiritual Israel they are utterly
                    ignorant. They are the children of Hagar (as Paul says), and not the children of
                    the promise. May the Lord help you to come and be made children of the
                    promise!
                Now, as in the individual there is such a tendency to rest in form, so in the
                    Church collectively; hence this tendency to a formal religion. Just as it was
                    with the Jews—their Temple service and the paraphernalia of Judaism was all in
                    all to them, and they thought that Jesus Christ was the most awfully severe and
                    uncharitable person who ever appeared on the face of the earth, because He told
                    them the truth. And the same class of character presents the same attitude now.
                    We shall see when we get to the Judgment-seat of Christ which is the true
                    charity—that which covers up things, or that which tears off the bandages and
                    shows people their hypocrisy and, as we have just read, reveals to them the
                    secrets of their hearts. I fear that we are very largely in the same condition
                    as the Jews were when Christ came. I say ‘very largely,’ for I know that there
                    are grand and glorious exceptions; but I speak of the great whole, and I am
                    backed up in this opinion by some of the most thoughtful and spiritual men of
                    this age. It is the lamentation everywhere this formality and death. It reaches
                    us from all parts of the land, yea, from all parts of all lands. I once heard a
                    great divine, a leader of spiritual thought in his day, who has recently passed
                    to Heaven, say, ‘I consider that the writings of the Prophets are far more
                    applicable to the state of the churches now
                    than the writings of the New Testament, for we are in the same lapsed and fallen
                    condition, as churches, as Israel of old was.’ So many think, and so many
                    teach.
                If this be the case, WHAT IS TO BE DONE? What would strike you
                    should be done in this state of comparative—spiritual eclipse? Evidently it
                    would be madness to go on as we are. That will mend nothing!
                    Somebody must strike and do something worthy of the emergency. ‘There is no
                    improving the future, without disturbing the present,’ and the difficulty is to
                    get people to be willing to be disturbed! We are so conservative by
                    nature—especially some of us. We have such a rooted dislike to have anything
                    rooted up, disturbed, or knocked down. It is as much the work of God, however,
                    to ‘root out, and to pull down, and to destroy,’ as ‘to build and to plant’; and
                    God's real ambassadors frequently have to do as much of the one kind of work as
                    of the other. This is not pleasant work; but what is necessary to
                    be done? Is it not manifestly necessary that we should go back to the simplicity
                    and SPIRITUALITY of the Gospel, and to the early modes of
                    propagating it amongst men?
                On the two last Sunday afternoons we tried to show what was the pure Acts of the
                    Apostles Gospel—calling men to forsake their sins, to cast away their idols,
                    come out from the world of the ungodly and be separate in order that their sins
                    might be forgiven, and that God might receive them, and they become His sons and
                    His daughters. Last Sunday we spoke of faith and what it would do for us.
                
                Now, with respect to the outward manifestations and propagation of the Gospel it
                    is equally necessary to go back. We have such a heap of rubbish to carry
                    away—the accumulated traditionalism of ages to go through and dig under—that it
                    sometimes takes a considerable amount of time, and force of character, and a
                    great deal of the Spirit of God to enable us to do it. Nevertheless, it must be
                    done if we are to reach a better state of things.
                It seems to me, in order to do this we should not shrink from a recognition of
                    our lapsed and fallen condition. That was what the Jews did at the teaching of
                    Jesus. They would not have His reproach. They would not have the light because
                    it condemned them. They rejected it. They persisted they were the children of
                    Abraham—the children of the promise. They persisted they were all right, and
                    they pointed to the Temple and to their ceremonialism as a proof of it; they
                    would not have His testimony, would not admit that they were wrong. Do not let
                    us imitate them. Let us recognize this state of things. Let us look it fairly in
                    the face. Honesty is always the best policy both in spiritual and in temporal
                    things. There is nothing gained by ignoring a disagreeable truth. It is best to
                    face it. Now there it is, and the best wav is to hail any ray of light that
                    comes to us from any part of the heavens, even though a carpenter should bring
                    it, as He brought it to them—or a fisherman, or a woman. Never mind—let us hail
                    the light and apply it to ourselves. Let us bring our hearts and lives out into
                    its blaze, and examine them by it, and improve it to our own Salvation and to
                    the Salvation of others. If the Jews had done
                    that they would have been saved, and their nation. ‘If thou hadst known, even
                    thou, at least in this thy day’—this twelfth hour of the last day—‘the things
                    that belong unto thy peace; but now’—because of thy obstinate rejection—‘they
                    are hid from thine eyes.’ The Lord help us to take the light home to ourselves,
                    each one.
                We have seen that it is clearly laid down in the texts I have read this afternoon
                    that the law of adaptation is the only law laid down in the New Testament with
                    respect to modes and measures. I challenge anybody to find me any other. While
                    the Gospel message is laid down with unerring exactness, we are left at perfect
                    freedom to adapt our measures and modes of bringing it to bear upon men to the
                    circumstances, times, and conditions in which we live—free as air. ‘I became all
                    things to all men.’ The great Apostle of the Gentiles who had thrown off the
                    paraphernalia of Judaism years before, yet became as a Jew that he might win the
                    Jews. The great, strong intellect became as a weak man that he might win the
                    weak. He conformed himself to the conditions and circumstances of his hearers,
                    in all lawful things, that he might win them; he let no mere conventionalifies,
                    or ideas of propriety, stand in his way when it was necessary to abandon them.
                    He who was brave as a lion, and hailed a crown of martyrdom like a conquering
                    hero, as he was, yet was willing to submit to anything when the requirements of
                    his mission rendered it necessary. He suffered his limbs to be ignominiously
                    thrust into a basket, and himself let down over
                    the wall, when necessary for the success of his work. He adapted himself to the
                    circumstances. He was instant in season and out of season. Oh! what a hue and
                    cry there is about out-of-season Christianity; ‘of some making a
                    difference’—pulling them out of the fire by the hair of the head, if needful!
                    Never mind—save them, SAVE THEM. That is the great desideratum.
                    Save them—pulling them out of the fire. Adapt your measures to your
                    circumstances and to the necessities of the times in which you live. Now, here
                    it seems to me that the Church—I speak universally—has made a grand mistake, the
                    same old mistake which we are so prone to fall into, of exalting the traditions
                    of the elders into the same importance and authority as the Word of God, as the
                    clearly laid down principles of the New Testament.
                People contend that we must have quiet, proper, decorous services. I say,
                        WHERE IS YOUR AUTHORITY FOR THIS? Not here. I defy any man to
                    show it. I have a great deal more authority in this book for such a lively,
                    gushing, spontaneous, and what you call disorderly, service, as our Army
                    services sometimes are, in this 14th of Corinthians than you can find for yours.
                    The best insight we get into the internal working of a religious service in
                    Apostolic times is in this chapter, and I ask you—is it anything like the
                    ordinary services of to-day? Can the utmost stretch of ingenuity make it into
                    anything like them? But even that is not complete. We cannot get the order of a
                    single service from the New Testament, nor can we get the form of 
                        govern-
                        government
                     ment of a single church. Hence one
                    denomination think theirs is the best form, and another theirs; so Christendom
                    has been divided into so many camps ever since; but this very quarrelling shows
                    the impossibility of getting from the New Testament the routine, the order, and
                    the fashion of mere modes. They cannot get it, because it is not there!! Do you
                    think God had no purpose in this omission? The form, modes, and measures are not
                    laid down as in the Old Testament dispensation. There is nothing of this
                    stereotyped routinism in the whole of the New Testament. Why? Now there may be
                    some who may have difficulties in this matter. I said to a gentleman, who came
                    to me with this and that difficulty about our modes and measures, ‘I will meet
                    your difficulties by bringing them face to face with the bare principles of the
                    New Testament. If I cannot substantiate and defend them by that I will give them
                    up for ever. I am not wedded to any forms and measures. To many of them I have
                    been driven by the necessities of the case. God has driven me to them as at the
                    point of the bayonet, as well as led me by the pillar of cloud, and when I have
                    brought my reluctance and all my own conventional notions, in which I was
                    brought up like other people, face to face with the naked bare principles of the
                    New Testament, I have not found anything to stand upon! I find things here far
                    more extravagant and extreme than anvthing we do—looked at carefully.’ Here is
                    the principle laid down that you are to adapt your measures to the necessity of
                    the people to whom you minister; you are to take the Gospel to them in such
                    modes and habitudes of thought and expression
                    and circumstances, as will gain for it from them a HEARING. You are
                    to speak in other tongues—go and preach it to them in such a way as they will
                    look at it and listen to it! Oh! in that lesson we read what beautiful freedom
                    from all set form and formula there was! What freedom for the gushing freshness,
                    enthusiasm, and love of those new Converts! What scope for the different
                    manifestations of the same spirit. Everything was not cut and dried. Everything
                    was not pre-arranged. It was left to the operation of the Spirit, and the
                    argument that this has been abused is no argument against it, for then you might
                    argue against every privilege. Here is abundant evidence that these new
                    Converts, each one, had opportunity to witness for Jesus, opportunity and scope
                    to give forth the gushing utterance of his soul, and tell other people how he
                    got saved, or the experience the Holy Ghost has wrought in him. And look at the
                    result! ‘If there come in one that believeth not, or one unlearned, he is
                    convinced of all, he is judged of all; and thus are the secrets of his heart
                    made manifest, and so, falling down on his face, he will worship
                    God, and report that God is in you of a truth.’ What unkind things have been
                    said of The Salvation Army, because people have fallen on their faces under the
                    convicting power of the Spirit at our Meetings, but you see this is Apostolic!
                    And, Oh, friends, what a glorious service this would be! You say, it would look
                    so strange. More the pity. More the pity that this natural, easy, domestic,
                    familiar kind of testimony and witnessing of divine things should have become
                    strange. May it not be because the experience
                    which prompted it has become strange? May it not be that there is no more desire
                    to testify because there is little to testify about? May it not be that there is
                    want of the utterance of the Holy Spirit through the tongue because there is
                    less of it in the soul? Oh! then, should we not make haste back to those days of
                    simplicity and power? Should we not pray to be set free from the traditionalism
                    and routinism in which Satan has succeeded in lulling us to sleep? I ask any
                    saved man—Do you not remember the gushing love and enthusiasm of your
                    first-found liberty? how you longed to tell everybody, and if you had been
                    placed in such circumstances as these Corinthian converts, how gladly you would
                    have testified to what Jesus had done for you? It was only the repressing,
                    keeping down, and ultimately, I am afraid, the all-but extinguishing of the Holy
                    Spirit's urgings that has led to the state in which many of you now are, and
                    also to the dead wav in which many of our services are conducted.
                Now, let us look fairly at these things. I maintain that the only
                    qualification—the only indispensable qualification—for witnessing for Christ is
                    the Holy Ghost. Paul, expressly, over and over again, abjures all merely human
                    equipment. He expressly declares that these things were not the power, even
                    where they existed, but that it was the Holy Ghost. Therefore, give me man,
                    woman, or child, with the Holy Ghost, full of love and zeal for God, and I say
                    it is a great strength and joy to that Convert to testify to the Church and to
                    the world, and it is the bounden duty of the Church to give him the opportunity to do so. The Lord is going to
                    demonstrate in this land that He is not going to evangelize it by finished
                    sermons and disquisitions, but by the simple testimony of people saved
                        from sin and the Devil, by His power and His grace. He is going to do
                    it by WITNESSING, as He began.
                Now, I say, read your New Testament on this point, and you will be struck with
                    the amazing amount of evidence for this unconventional kind of service. The
                    world wants some more PENTECOSTS. When shall Peters and Marys be so
                    filled with the Spirit that they cannot help telling what God has done for
                    them—male and female, men, women, and children—like the woman of Samaria, who,
                    when she had found Him of whom Moses and the Prophets wrote, went and fetched
                    her fellow-townsmen and women to hear Him? He wishes you to do the same, and
                    this is the way the Lord is going to gather out His great and glorious kingdom
                    in these latter days by the power of testimony in the Holy Ghost. He only wants
                    witnesses to be able to go and say, ‘We speak that we do know’—that
                    is the qualification. The Lord is multiplying such witnesses. Bless His holy
                    name.
                But you may say—what did the Master Himself do? Well, He adopted these very
                    measures. I was so struck with this, when some one said, ‘Why, you are sending
                    people to preach who cannot read or write.’ For a moment I was staggered, but I
                    asked him, ‘How many of the Apostles do you suppose could read and write when
                    they were first sent out?’ And then it was the questioner's turn to be
                    staggered. There is no reason to suppose, with but two or three exceptions, that any of them could.
                    Education then was far more uncommon than now. It was not reading and writing
                    that was the great qualification for preaching Christ; it was KNOWING AND
                        SEEING! It was not the power of eloquence, but it was being able to
                    cast out devils, that was the test. Give me somebody able to cast out devils,
                    and I don't care whether they can read or write, or put a grammatical sentence
                    together. That is of no consequence whatever. Why did not Jesus Christ call the
                    doctors and scribes of His day? There were plenty of them—highly educated men
                    with trained and disciplined minds. He was amongst them in the Temple, when He
                    was twelve years old. He knew them. How was it He did not select these? He who
                    could have commanded a legion of angels, could surely have commanded a few
                    scribes and doctors to go to preach the Gospel. Why not? He acted on the law of
                    adaptation. He wanted His Gospel preached to the great masses—not to the select
                    few. Not to the educated ‘upper ten,’ but to the great masses of mankind. How
                    was He to have His Gospel so preached, but by men like unto themselves? They
                    fled from the educated doctors. They would not listen to the doctors, and they
                    will not now. It may be very wicked, and obstinate, and foolish, but such is the
                    fact—they never have and they never will. Hence, Jesus Christ, instead of
                    working a miracle, which He never did when it was unnecessary, chose the weak
                    things of the earth to confound the mighty. He would, in the other case, have
                    had first to have untaught all those scribes and doctors almost all they had
                        learned. He would have had to set them free
                    from the bonds of traditionalism. He would have had to remould their minds, and
                    then equip them. There was no necessity for this, when He found the fishermen
                    ready to His hand. They were just the men He wanted. They only required
                    tempering with the Holy Ghost, and they were ready for the work. They thought as
                    the people thought; they spoke with and associated with the people, and, in
                    fact, were of them. As He wanted the masses of men evangelized, He chose men
                    from amongst the masses to evangelize them. Here was infinite wisdom: ‘I thank
                    Thee, O Father, that Thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent, and
                    hast revealed them unto babes. Even so, Father, for so it seemed good in Thy
                    sight.’ But He had a purpose in it, and the purpose was this—that the Gospel
                    might be propagated in all climes and conditions of men, through any kind of an
                    agent—Greek, Jew, Barbarian, Scythian, man, woman, child. Any person who has
                    experienced its power in their souls may go and speak it to anybody they can get
                    to hear them and everywhere! We are free as air and sunlight as to our choice of
                    agencies, and it is time the Church woke up to this. The Lord have mercy on us!
                    Is there not work enough to do? It makes my ears tingle and burn with shame when
                    I hear people saying, ‘You must not send agencies here and there, and we can't
                    have our organization interfered with.’ I say, ‘Are all the sinners converted in
                    your neighbourhood?’ Nay; has every poor, lost, wretched soul heard the name of
                    Jesus, and the testimony of His Gospel? Are there not teeming thousands round about you who never heard His
                    name, and who care nothing for Him, who live every day trampling His law under
                    their feet? For Christ's sake, send somebody after them. If they
                    will not have your doctors of divinity and your polished divines, get hold of
                    fishermen and costermongers and send them! Let the people have a chance for
                    their souls. Let them hear, for if they hear not, how shall they believe? Oh,
                    they are dying for lack of knowledge—they are, friends; thousands are dying for
                    the lack of knowledge. It is quite a common thing for us to get people into our
                    services who say, ‘I never knew there was anything so pretty as that in the
                    Bible. I didn't know you were reading from the Bible. We never heard anything
                    like that before.’ Hundreds of men in this country were never in a place of
                    worship, save to be christened or to be married, and a good many, sad to say,
                    are living without being married. While we have been standing UPON OUR
                        DIGNITY, WHOLE GENERATIONS HAVE GONE TO HELL!—if the Bible is true.
                    How much longer shall we stand there? If Jesus had stood upon His dignity He
                    would never have come to die between two thieves. The whole work of redemption
                    is a work of humiliation, selfsacrifice, and suffering; and if we are not
                    willing to follow Him in that, we may as well give up professing His name.
                The Lord help us to go down, down amongst the fishermen, amongst the poor, the
                    weak, the unlearned, the vulgar, to ‘condescend to men of low estate.’
            
            
                
                ASSURANCE OF SALVATION
                
                ASSURANCE OF SALVATION
                
                    ROMANS viii. 3, 4.
                    —‘For what the Law could not do, in that it was weak through the flesh, God
                        sending His own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin, condemned
                        sin in the flesh: That the righteousness of the Law might be fulfilled in
                        us, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit.’
                
                I WILL try, by God's grace, as much as in me lies, to deal with this
                    subject in a way that shall not provoke controversy. I do deplore this. I wish
                    there was a way of improving the future without disturbing the present, but it
                    is a misfortune, I suppose, that there is not, and, however carefully one may
                    guard oneself in trying to lead the Lord's people higher, there is always
                    somebody who will quibble and make objections and take exceptions. But we cannot
                    help this. We must be true to our convictions of God's truth, and to what He has
                    taught us, and revealed to us by His Spirit, for we speak the things that we do
                    know, and do see, and do handle, of the Word of Life. However, I will try to
                    keep to ground on which I think all really spiritual people will be agreed. We
                    may go a bit farther some day, but this afternoon we will just go so far as we
                    believe every real disciple of the Lord Jesus will be willing to go with us,
                    and, Oh! may the Holy Spirit give us one mind and help us to see in His light,
                    and if there is anything we do not see in His light, Oh! that this very hour He
                    may show it to us, for He knows that we are all willing to see, and only longing and desiring to know the
                    whole truth, as it is in Jesus. Let every sincere soul put up this prayer for
                    himself and for me, as I put it up for myself and for you, that the Holy Spirit
                    may lead us into all truth, at any rate as far as it is important to our own
                    Salvation and our practical exhibition of the Salvation of Christ to other
                    people, for a dying world is hanging upon our skirts. They are looking at us to
                    find out what religion is. They will not come to this Book. They will not even
                    hear about it, but they are looking to us to find it out; how momentously
                    important it is, therefore, that we should be truly living Epistles, known and
                    read of all men. We are epistles, whatever sort of doctrine our
                    lives teach. We cannot help ourselves, for while we profess to be the Lord's we
                    are living epistles, known and read of all men.
                Specially, then, I want first to look at the third verse of the eighth chapter.
                    Now, I thought it would, perhaps, be the most profitable way to look at this
                    subject, and would meet the experience of some who I know are here, to try to
                    answer the question—
                Wherein does the Law fail to save us? Then we shall be able to see
                        wherein and how Jesus Christ transcends the Law.
                First, then, the Law does not fail in giving a knowledge of sin, for it
                    is by the Law, as the Apostle says, that I know sin. Without the Law I was dead,
                    so dead in sin that I did not realize it at all. Its power was so complete over
                    me that I did not realize it was sin, and, therefore, was asleep and
                    comparatively happy; but when the commandment came, ‘sin revived and I died’—that is, to all hope of
                    making myself righteous. The commandment showed me the awful chasm there was
                    between me and it. The Holy Commandment, just and pure and good—and myself
                    unholy, impure, and unrighteous. A light from Sinai flashed upon it, and I died
                    in despair and utter helplessness. Thus, I say, the Law does not fail in giving
                    knowledge of sin, for it is by the Law that I get the knowledge of
                    sin.
                Secondly.—Neither does the Law fail in begetting a sense of guilt and
                    condemnation on account of sin, for it is by the Law again that I get this. I
                    not only get the knowledge of sin by the Law, but I get the sense of guilt and
                    condemnation for sin by the Law, for the Law comes in and condemns me. It is the
                    spirit of death and condemnation to me: it says, ‘You should have done this; and
                    because you have not done it, you shall die.’ I feel that the Law is just and
                    good, and yet I feel that I do not keep it; and, therefore, I have the sentence
                    of condemnation upon me because I do not keep it. Then the Law does not fail in
                    begetting a sense of condemnation and guilt on account of sin.
                Thirdly.—Neither does the Law fail in producing desire after
                        righteousness and effort to attain it. The Law begets in me the
                    desire after righteousness, by contrasting my condition with the purity and
                    Holiness of God's law. I see the Law to be good and holy, I see it to be
                    desirable, and I desire to attain the righteousness of the Law. I am speaking
                    now of a convicted sinner, as the Apostle did when speaking of the same
                    character. A convicted sinner sees the righteousness and beauty of the Law of
                        God. He sees that it is holy, just, and
                    good. He sees that it is intended to make him holy, just, and good, for the Law
                    is not sin, as the Apostle says, but is ordained unto righteousness, which the
                    sinner has failed to attain because of weakness, but struggles to attain. The
                    first thing is to set himself to strive to attain the righteousness of the Law
                    by his own efforts. This was the case with the Apostle. He longed to do what he
                    could not, and he constantly did what he would not; and, as it was with the
                    Apostle, so it is with every convicted sinner on earth. We were constantly
                    longing after righteousness. We could not help looking on the beautiful, pure,
                    and holy law of God, and we longed to keep it, and tried again and again, until
                    we were tripped down again and again, and died in utter despair, never being
                    able to attain it for ourselves and of ourselves. So you see the Law begets
                    first a knowledge of sin; secondly, it begets guilt and condemnation on account
                    of sin; and, thirdly, desire after righteousness and effort to attain it.
                Thus far I think we must all be agreed. Wherein does the Law fail? It does all
                    this for me. It brings me right up, as it were, my schoolmaster lashing me right
                    up to the cross, opening my eyes, creating intense desire after Holiness and
                    efforts for it, and then it just fails me. Where? At the vital
                        point. It cannot give me power. That is where the Law
                    fails. It cannot give me power to fulfil itself. I am strengthless through the
                    weakness of the flesh and the sinfulness of my nature to keep it, and so I
                    struggle and wrestle for power to keep it, but I have not power. ‘What the Law
                    could not do, in that it was weak, God sent his
                    Son to do,’ and I maintain HE DOES IT, and that is the
                    one vital point where the Son transcends the Law.
                Oh! but there is a Gospel nowadays, a Law-Gospel. A great deal of the Gospel of
                    these days never gets any farther than the Law, and some people tell me that it
                    is never intended to do so, and then I ask, Wherein does Christ Jesus advantage
                    me? What am I better for such a Gospel, if my Gospel cannot deliver me from the
                    power of sin? If through the Gospel I cannot get deliverance from this
                    ‘I-would-if-I-could religion,’ this ‘Oh!-wretched-man-that-I-am religion,’
                    wherein am I benefited by it? Wherein does your Gospel do more for me than the
                    Law? The Law convinced me of sin, and set me desiring and longing after
                    righteousness; but wherein is the superiority of Jesus Christ, if He cannot lead
                    me further than that? And I say, ‘Very well; your faith is vain, and Christ died
                    in vain, and you are yet in your sins, if that is all it can do.’ If that is all
                    Jesus Christ can do, His coming is vain, and I am yet in my sins, and am doomed
                    to hug this dead corpse to the last, and go down to Hell; for death will never
                    do for me what the Blood and sacrifice of Jesus Christ cannot do for me. If
                    Christ cannot supersede the Law, then I am lost, and lost for ever. Wherein then
                    does this ‘Oh!-wretched-man Gospel’ supersede the Law? Will anybody point it out
                    to me?
                Oh! but the real Gospel does. The Gospel that represents Jesus
                    Christ, not as a system of truth to be received into the mind, as I should
                    receive a system of philosophy, or astronomy, but it represents Him as a REAL, LIVING, MIGHTY Saviour,
                        ABLE TO SAVE ME now.
                I said to a lady once, who was seeking this deliverance, and who was struggling
                    and wrestling, as I kneeled by her side, ‘Wait a minute. Suppose Jesus Christ
                    were here in His flesh, as He once was. Suppose He were to come to your side
                    now, and put His hand upon you and say, ‘Hush! I know your desire; I see your
                    heart; I know what you are longing after. You are longing to be delivered from
                    everything that grieves Me, upon which My pure eyes cannot look with allowance.
                    You are wanting to be brought into full conformity to My will, and that is what
                    I have come to do now. I have come to live with you. I am taking up My abode
                    under this roof, and I will never leave your side. I will be with you by day,
                    and I will be with you by night. I will sit at the dinner-table and tea-table
                    with you, and walk out with you, and go to bed with you, and rise up with you.
                    Don't be troubled. I will never leave you and never forsake you.’ Do you think
                    if He were to come and say that, you would be able to trust Him?’
                ‘Oh! yes.’
                ‘You would not be afraid?’
                ‘Oh! no.’
                ‘Now, what would it be that would save you? Would it be the bodily presence of
                    Jesus, which they laid in the sepulchre, and which was as dead and helpless as
                    any other clay when the spirit was gone out of it? NO. It would be
                    His spiritual presence, would it not? and His spiritual eyes seeing you, and His
                    spiritual tongue speaking to you?’
                ‘Yes.’
                
                ‘Well, then, this is just the presence that He has promised to be with every one
                    of His people, and now He is here and able to do this, and will abide with you
                    and enable you to abide in Him, if you will just trust Him. Now, just trust
                    Him.’ And the Lord, by His blessed Spirit, did take and reveal this truth unto
                    her, and just then and there she did leap into the arms of her Saviour and
                    realize that He did save her.
                Oh! friends, some people do not think we make enough of Christ. We make
                        all of Christ, only it is a living Christ instead of a dead
                    one. It is Christ in us, as well as for us. We believe in Christ for us, and we
                    should not have been here at all, but for Christ for us up there for ever and
                    ever, and nobody will hasten to throw the crown at His feet readier than I
                    shall; but we believe in order to do it we must have Him in us, and if He is not
                    in us, then it is sounding brass and tinkling cymbal to call upon Him for us. He
                    must be in us. Christ in us as well as for us, and those whom He is not
                        in He will not be for. If He dwell not ‘in you,’
                    ye are ‘reprobates.’ But Christ in us—an ever-loving, ever-present, Almighty
                    Saviour—is just able to do what the angels said He should do, that for which He
                    was called Jesus, viz. to save His people from their sin.
                Then how does He this? Wherein does He supersede the Law? Wherein does Christ do
                    for me and wherein is He made to me, what the Law could not do or be to me? We
                    have seen what the Law could do and how far it could go. We have seen that it
                    fails just at the vital point of power. Now, how does Christ become
                    this power to me? How is He made unto me—not
                    for me, up in Heaven; He is there, too; but how is He made unto me down
                    here—wisdom, righteousness, sanctification, and redemption? How does He deliver
                    His people from their sins? How does He save us from the power of sin? Now, you
                    who are longing to get free, try to listen to me, and, Oh! may the HOLY
                        GHOST TEACH US.
                He does this, first, by giving—
                Assurance of Salvation. He saves and then He makes us conscious of the
                    fact, which the Law could not do. All it could do was to set us struggling after
                    it. It could not give us assurance. Now, by assurance, I mean the personal
                    realization of my acceptance in Christ; my acceptance by the Father; my present
                    acceptance—I mean the inward assurance, which men and women find for themselves,
                    or have revealed in themselves, which they know as a matter of consciousness.
                    Not that which their minister tells them; not that which they learn from books;
                    not even that which the Bible only tells them, for there are thousands of people
                    who read the Bible, who are not saved, and who know they are not. You all know
                    there are thousands of people who believe it in vain.
                I was walking down the Anxious Room at one of Mr. Moody's meetings, when two
                    ladies came and said:
                ‘Will you please speak to us?’
                I don't know why they came to me, except it was my plain dress which made them
                    think I ought to know, even if I did not, how to deal with souls. We took three
                    chairs and sat down. The youngest was a lady
                    about thirty or thirty-three, and very intelligent, evidently an educated
                    person, and the elder was an old lady, gorgeously attired. They sat down; and as
                    to the younger one there was no mistake about her earnestness. Mr. Moody had
                    been preaching on ‘The Cities of Refuge,’ and showing how the soul who desired
                    to be saved had nothing to do and nothing to suffer, but only to run into the
                    Cities of Refuge and be saved—a beautiful sermon for convicted
                    sinners—and this lady said to me, almost passionately—‘How is it? there must be
                    something wrong somewhere; there must be a mistake somewhere. I believe all that
                    Mr. Moody has been saying, every word of it. I have believed every word since I
                    was a little girl; in fact, I believe the whole of the New Testament—all about
                    Jesus Christ, and I believe, moreover, that He died for me, and that He makes
                    intercession for me, and yet I'm not saved a bit. I have no more power over sin
                    than other people, and I know I am not saved. Now, what can be the reason? I am
                    afraid it is want of faith.’
                That is the universal resort to fall back upon by all souls in that condition. I
                    said, ‘Will you be honest with me? It is of no use coming to a spiritual doctor
                    any more than to a physical doctor if you are not frank; you would only mislead
                    him. If you really want to be saved, be honest with me, and I will try, by the
                    help of the Spirit, to help you.’
                ‘I do indeed want to be saved,’ she said. ‘I often go into my room, and weep, and
                    struggle, and pray for hours. I try to believe. I think I have believed, and I
                    come out and I am no better.’
                
                ‘Oh,’ I said to myself, ‘alas! here is the experience of thousands.’ ‘Tell me, in
                    these times when you say you go into your room, and struggle, and pray, and
                    strive, and believe; tell me, is there anything that comes up before the eye of
                    your soul as an obstacle and difficulty that has to be put away or embraced;
                    anything that comes up and that the Spirit of God said “You must sacrifice this,
                    or cut off that, or do the other?” Just tell me that.’
                She was quiet for a moment and speechless. She waited; then she drew her breath
                    and said, ‘Well, yes, I am afraid there is.’
                ‘Ah!’ I said, ‘that is it; it is not want of faith, it is want of obedience. Now
                    you may go on another ten years, going into your room, struggling and striving,
                    and until you trample that under your feet, and say, “Lord, I will follow Thee
                    at all costs,” you will not be able to believe. I don't want you to tell me what
                    it is; sufficient that you know it, and that the Lord knows it; but, after an
                    experience of dealing with hundreds of souls just at this point, I tell you: you
                    must give up that idol or embrace that cross, whatever it may be; I believe that
                    here is the cause of your trouble.’
                ‘Then,’ she said, ‘I will make no secret of it. I am the only member of an
                    unconverted family that has any desire after God. My husband is a worldly,
                    unconverted man, and I am in a worldly, unconverted circle, and always when I
                    come to the Lord Jesus it comes up before me that I will have to confess Him and
                    to live like a Christian, and I am not willing to do so.’
                ‘Then, my dear lady, it is the old story over again of the Young Ruler. Now, you know, I should be untrue
                    to your soul if I were to go on plastering you with untempered mortar. There you
                    are; make your choice. You cannot be a Christian, and not confess Christ. You
                    cannot be a Christian, and not live like one before your unconverted relatives;
                    and, therefore, if you are not willing to take up the cross and follow Him, you
                    cannot become His disciple.’
                Then I went down on my knees with her, and we talked and prayed, and, at last,
                    she said:
                ‘By the grace of God, I WILL confess Him.’
                Bless the Lord! and the light of Salvation soon gladdened her eye, for it shone
                    through her face. She found herself able to believe at once, and this is just
                    the condition of thousands of souls. She got assurance then. She got saved.
                    Before, she had being trying to believe she was saved, when she was not—quite a
                    different thing to getting saved and then knowing it. People are told to believe
                    this, that, and the other. As a gentleman said, at whose house I once
                    stayed:
                ‘I had a curious episode the other morning. I have had a gentleman here of some
                    note in the evangelistic world for two or three days, and he came in the other
                    morning at breakfast-time and said, ‘I am happy to tell you that both your
                    gardeners are converted.’ I was very thankful to hear it; and surprised to hear
                    that the work had been so quickly and thoroughly done. Well, I was walking in
                    the grounds, and saw one of the gardeners. ‘John,’ I said, ‘I am glad to hear
                    the happy news.’ He didn't seem to know what I meant.
                ‘“What news, sir?”
                
                ‘“Well, I hear you have given your heart to God this morning. You are converted,
                    saved?”
                ‘“Well,” John said, “I could hardly say that, sir.”
                ‘“Then what has happened? Something has happened in your experience—some change
                    taken place?”
                ‘“Well,” he said, “I don't hardly know that. The gentleman brought a Bible to me
                    and read two or three verses, and asked me if I believed, and talked very nicely
                    to me, and asked me again if I believed; then I said I did, and then he said I
                    was all right; but I can't say I feel any different.”’
                Now, I am afraid there has been sadly too much of that. There is all the
                    difference between believing the letter of the Word and knowing that you are
                    saved. I say, that man was not saved—was he? I say, the lady who
                    spoke to me in the Anxious Room was not saved—was she? And I say
                    there are, alas! thousands to-day in just that position. They are not saved.
                    They manifest it by their fruits. They confess it. They write it to me in their
                    letters on the right hand and on the left. Members of churches ten, fifteen, and
                    twenty years, some of them Ministers of the Gospel, and yet they tell me they
                    are NOT SAVED!!
                Thus, you see it is something more than the belief after all. It is something
                    more than what my minister tells me, something more than what books tell me, and
                    what the Bible tells me. It implies and includes this, but something more than
                    this. It is believing in a living, personal, and almighty Saviour, and believing
                    in Him now, and that faith brings
                    the realization. The other brings nothing. When people believe
                    thus, the Spirit comes into their hearts, crying, ‘Abba, Father!’ To them there
                    is no condemnation. They have the witness of the Spirit that they are in Christ
                    Jesus. The Spirit of the Son comes into their hearts, crying, ‘Abba, Father!’
                    and they know by demonstration, by inward consciousness, that they have passed
                    from death unto life. You see there is all the difference between the means of
                    Salvation and Salvation itself. The means of Salvation is not Salvation. The
                    means only brings Salvation. ‘Thy faith hath saved thee.’ ‘By faith are ye
                    saved,’ and when you are saved by faith, then consciousness attests the fact.
                    Your own spirit attests the fact, and God's Spirit attests the fact, and you
                    know it beyond controversy. You have assurance, and this is the first
                    indispensable condition of power over sin, for while I remain unassured of my
                    Salvation, Oh! what power the Devil has over me. ‘Oh,’ he says, ‘you're not
                    saved at all. What is the good of your standing out on this point, for you are
                    not saved at all. You may as well go all the way. You are under the power of
                    sin, and may as well remain there. You have not got the witness of your
                    Salvation, and, therefore, what is the use of standing out here or there? ‘But
                    when we have the witness of the Spirit in our souls of our acceptance with God,
                    that He does now for Christ's sake pardon and receive us, what power it brings!
                    This is what the old Divines called assurance of faith, a conviction wrought in
                    the soul by the Holy Ghost that Jesus Christ has given Himself for me, that God
                    has accepted that offering in view of my sin
                    and transgression, and for its sake, and its sake only, has
                    justified me freely from all things by which I could not be justified by the Law
                    of Moses, and that in Him God becomes my Father, and now accepts me and looks
                    upon me well pleased—a conviction wrought in my soul by the Holy Spirit; for, as
                    the Apostle says, ‘No man can call Jesus “Lord” but by the Holy Ghost.’ There
                    must he the spiritual realization of Him as Lord. Why, anybody can call Him
                    ‘Lord.’ Tens of thousands of people call Him ‘Lord’ nowadays, whom nobody
                    supposes to have the Spirit. What did he mean? He must have meant a confession
                    of Jesus out of a heart which has a revelation and recognizes its Lord; such a
                    confession as Thomas made when the conviction of His Master's Deity shone into
                    his doubting soul: ‘My Lord and my God.’ To this
                    relationship only the Holy Ghost can testify. Don't ever tell anybody he is
                    saved. I never do. I leave that for the Holy Ghost to do. I tell them how to get
                    saved. I try to help them to the way of faith. I will bring them up as close as
                    ever I can to the blessed broken body of their Lord, and I will try to show them
                    how willing He is to receive them, and I know that when really they do receive
                    Him, the Spirit of God will tell them quickly enough that they are saved. He
                    will not want my assistance to tell that. I have proved it in hundreds of cases.
                    Nobody knows the soul but God. Nobody can see the secret windings of the
                    depraved heart but God. Nobody can tell when a full surrender is made but God.
                    Nobody can tell when the right hand is cut off, or the right eye plucked out,
                    but God. Nobody can tell when a soul is
                    whole-hearted but God, and as soon as He sees it He will tell that soul that it
                    is saved; but, if God has not told you, be up and stirring, and strive to make
                    your calling and election sure, for you are not saved yet, or you would know it.
                    What are you to believe unto? Hope? Oh, dear, no! you don't believe unto hope.
                    Effort? Oh, no! you had that before in the Law. SALVATION? Yes! and
                    if you ‘believe unto Salvation,’ you will get ‘saved,’
                    and if you are not saved, you have never believed unto Salvation. Instead of
                    trying to make yourself happy in this state of uncertainty and misery, for
                    Christ's sake get up and get saved. It is a great deal easier to get saved than
                    it is to make yourself believe you are saved, when you are not. The one is a
                    philosophical impossibility; the other is a glorious possibility at any moment,
                    when you get low enough before God, and give up all, and take His Son as your
                    precious and almighty Saviour. God's Gospel is beautifully adjusted to the laws
                    of our mental constitution. He who wrote, framed, and conceived it, created us,
                    and He has made it like a key to fit the lock, and knows just the conditions
                    that are necessary, and He has conformed His Gospel to those conditions.
                My friend, if you want to know you are saved, this is the only response I can
                    give, and the only way I know, and I have talked to hundreds of souls of all
                    grades and conditions, to many ministers of the Gospel, deacons and leaders, in
                    just this state. For years my labours were exclusively carried on in churches
                    and chapels, where, naturally, church members have come, and they have told me
                        by hundreds with their own lips that they
                    have been members so many years and were never saved. I am not, therefore,
                    speaking without experience in this matter. I tell you, when you ‘believe’ in a
                    Scriptural sense, you will get ‘saved’ in a Scriptural sense. When you put out
                    of your head all these new-fangled notions about faith, and cease to credit any
                    faith that does not save the soul and bring it into conscious union with Jesus
                    Christ, and resolve to have such a faith as will do that for you, then you will
                    get Salvation. I never in my life knew a soul come to that resolve who did not
                    get saved. I have had people before me who were worn almost to skeletons and
                    were driven almost mad, and the first thing they have said has been, when I have
                    asked the reason, ‘Oh! I have no faith. It is want of faith!’ This is the
                    universal lament, and, when we have come to close quarters, I have invariably
                    found it has been no such thing, but want of OBEDIENCE, which
                    spiritual teachers have not had the wisdom to discern, as Christ did in the
                    heart of the young Ruler, ‘one thing thou lackest.’ He saw that young man's
                    besetting sin to be covetousness. I do not know that He would have said the same
                    to every rich man, but in the case of the young Ruler He saw that the love of
                    his possessions was so paramount, that unless he let them go and made a clean
                    sweep, he could not follow Him and be a consistent disciple; and so He said,
                    ‘Sell all, and come, follow Me,’ and the young man went away sorrowful; and,
                    mark you, Jesus Christ did not call him back, and yet He looked after him and
                    loved him. His great, 
                        bene-
                        benevolent
                     volent heart panted after him, and He
                    desired to have him; but He saw it would be a greater evil to call him back and
                    compromise the conditions of Salvation, than to let him be lost. And yet,
                    methinks, if there was any case in which a compromise could be made, it would
                    have been in this. He did not do, as many would have done in our day—call him
                    back and say, ‘Here, young man, I think I have been a little too hard on you.
                    You shall sell half, and keep the other half and come and follow me.’ Oh, no!
                    Everybody would be saved at that rate. There would be no test of whole-hearted
                    consecration to Him then. If you can let people into Heaven on terms like these,
                    they would be only too ready to close with them. But whether ministers teach
                    people the truth or not, the Holy Ghost does; and He puts His finger on the sore
                    spot, and says, ‘If you want to follow Me, you will have to renounce this, and
                    give up that, or embrace the other,’ and if the soul says, ‘No, Lord, I would
                    follow, but suffer me first to go and hug this idol’; then Jesus Christ says,
                    ‘Very well, go!’ That is the sort of faith most people are resting in.
                I see we shall not get any farther in this address than assurance of Salvation.
                    You are panting after it. You are longing for it. You may have it. God wants
                    every one of His people to have it. Get saved, and you will know it. Use your
                    Heavenly Father's letter to find your way up to Him. It is not the letter you
                    are to rest in: it is the God who wrote it. Use the letter to get at the Spirit,
                    for the letter will not save you—it is the Spirit that saves you. Hug his volume
                    to your heart as the 
                        expres-
                        expression
                     sion of your Father's will and the
                    record through which you are to believe on His Son, but it is the Son who is to
                    save you. People talk about exalting Christ. I think this is His glory, that He
                    can save His people and make them know it, and make them feel it, and carry them
                    as He did Paul and Silas through the prison and the stocks singing His praises,
                    and make them unspeakably happy in His love. Assurance of Salvation! All want it
                    when they come to die. Why don't people get it while they live? Did you ever
                    know a professing Christian come to die who did not want it? Did you ever know
                    one dare to die without it? or, if you ever knew such, you know what a miserable
                    death it was. Then, I contend, that what is necessary to die with, is necessary
                    to live with. Why not get it while you live? Assurance! Assurance! And you can
                    have it just now. Hallelujah! Amen.
            
            
                
                HOW CHRIST TRANSCENDS THE LAW
                
                HOW CHRIST TRANSCENDS THE LAW
                
                    ROMANS vii. 4.
                    —‘Wherefore, my brethren, ye also are become dead to the law by the body of
                        Christ; that ye should be married to another, even to Him who is raised from
                        the dead, that we should bring forth fruit unto God.’
                
                IN answer to letters received since last Sabbath, I would just say that
                    the writers tell me that they have been struggling for years for assurance; that
                    thev do receive the testimony of God concerning His Son; that they do believe
                    that Jesus Christ died for their sins; still they have no peace or joy. I want
                    you to mark well that assurance of Salvation is the testimony of God's Spirit to
                    a fact which has transpired, and if that fact has not transpired, God's Spirit
                    will never testify to it. You may think you believe; but, Oh, I feel sure
                    numbers of people are deluded here. They think they believe because they receive
                    into their minds the written record that God has given of His Son; but they have
                    not believed and rested on the promise in such a way as to bring the witness of
                    the Spirit. They have stopped short of that. They have been
                    satisfied with the letter.
                Now, do not think, friends, that I underestimate the letter. Perhaps
                    few of you, if any, value this word more than I do, but I have known very few of
                    those who have rested merely in the letter (and
                    I have known many do so), who, when I have come into close conversation with
                    them, have not been miserably dissatisfied, unassured, sin-conquered souls; and
                    that fact alone convinces me that there is something wrong. That is not the
                    glorious liberty of the children of God. That is not knowing God in the
                    scriptural sense.
                Take God's way, and then the witnessing Spirit will come. Of course, people are
                    not assured because they have nothing to be assured of! They have
                    no Salvation, and, therefore, they cannot be assured of it. Get Salvation, and
                    you will get assurance. Oh! friends. This is what you want. IT IS FOR
                        YOU. Here it is. There is no other religion recognized in this Book.
                    All the saints to whom Paul wrote, knew they were saved. Here and there was an
                    exception, where they had fallen back and got into bondage, as some of you have;
                    but, as a rule, be recognizes the fact that they all were saved,
                    and were rejoicing in the assurance of it, and this is the normal condition of
                    the children of God. I do not say such a person may not occasionally slip. He
                    may occasionally. He may lose his scroll, as Pilgrim did, but he cannot, will
                    not rest till he finds it again!
                Then you say, ‘I am not to believe, I suppose.’ Oh, yes! you are. Take the
                    blessed record to your heart, but do not rest in the letter. Do not rest in the
                    letter. GO ON until you find the substance of things
                    hoped for—the substance. There is a substance in spiritual things
                    quite as much as there is in natural things, and those who really and truly
                    believe, know it. No one can testify when you
                    do really and truly believe but God's Spirit, for the things of a man knoweth no
                    man save the spirit of a man that is in him, and just so with the things of God.
                    He searcheth the hearts and minds, and knows when you are sincere and real and
                    true; and when you seek Him with all your heart you will find Him, and He will
                    come and testify to that fact—and, Oh! if you have not this testimony suspect
                    yourself. Do not throw discredit upon God. Begin over again and get
                    assurance.
                Oh! what POWER assurance of Salvation gives! when the individual can
                    say I know; not merely I believe, but I
                        know. St. John seems to have written his First Epistle mainly to
                    enable the believers to know: and then several times shows how we may ‘know’ we
                    are saved. Faith is the means to assurance, but assurance is not faith, and
                    faith is not assurance. Assurance is the result of faith, and when
                    you have the right sort of faith you will have assurance. ‘He that believeth
                    hath the witness in himself,’ and until you get assurance do not trust yourself.
                    Persevere until you get it. God will never leave a sincere soul in the dark. You
                    must come down to the foot of the Cross in the little children's way—give up all
                    for Christ, and make up your mind that you will follow Him at all costs, and
                    then cast your guilty soul upon His broken, bleeding sacrifice, and, as soon as
                    you do this, God will send the answer of His Spirit.
                But this afternoon I want to go a little farther in showing how Christ supersedes
                    the Law.
                We have noted in a former sermon that He does so, first, by giving
                    assurance.
                
                Secondly, I want to show that He does so, by giving POWER OVER
                        SIN. Now we shall be safe here. I trust this will not be controverted
                    ground. I believe He can do a great deal more for His people than this, but we
                    will stop here this afternoon. By and by we may, perhaps, go farther.
                        Christ gives His people power over sin. Now, this is a
                    necessity of our position. We have, as we saw last Sunday, been all slaves of
                    sin. Sin is, indeed, the sting of death. Now, how is it, if there is no
                    deliverance from this dreadful plague and scourge of God's people—how is it that
                    the Holy Ghost sets every real child of God struggling after it? Whatever may be
                    a man's theory in his creed, you get him on his knees, and he will begin to pray
                    to God to save him from sin. Sin is the abominable thing which he
                    hates, and longs to be delivered from; and the universal experience of God's
                    people is that the Spirit urges them to seek to be saved from sin.
                    I have heard people argue powerfully against the possibility of being delivered
                    from sin, and the next time I have heard them pray they have asked God for the
                    very thing, and I have said, ‘Thank God, that is the Holy Ghost teaching him
                    now; he cannot help praying for it, whether he believes in it or not.’ If I have
                    been under the power of sin, so as to become its complete slave, and Jesus
                    Christ comes and pardons me for the past, and delivers me from the guilt and
                    condemnation which came upon me in consequence of the past, what do I want? I
                    want some new power. I want something besides pardon. I want power
                    to stand, or I shall be down again the next minute.
                
                What God does for us through Jesus Christ outside of us is one thing, and what He
                    does in us by Jesus Christ is another thing, but the two are simultaneous, or
                    one so immediately succeeds the other, that we hardly discern the interval. Now,
                    I say, I want power to enable me to meet that temptation which is coming on me
                    to-morrow, as it came on me yesterday, and, if Jesus Christ pardons me ever so,
                    and leaves me under the reigning power of my old appetites, what has He done for
                    me? I shall be down in the mud, and to-morrow night I shall be as condemned as
                    ever. I want power. I want regeneration—as the Holy Spirit has put it. I want
                    the renewing of the spirit of my mind. I want to be
                    created anew in Christ Jesus; ‘made a new creature.’
                Now, this is where Jesus Christ transcends the Law. The Law could not renew the
                    spirit of my mind. It could only show me what a guilty rebel I was. It could not
                    put a better spirit in me. It could not extract the venom, but only show it to
                    me, and make me writhe on account of it. But Jesus Christ comes and does this
                    for me—gives me power. How?
                Now, I hope those friends who think that I do not sufficiently exalt the Saviour,
                    will mark this. How does He give it to me? He unites me to Himself.
                    I am dead to the Law. He delivers me from the condemning power of the Law when
                    He pardons me, and then He does not leave me there, but He ‘marries’ me to
                    Himself. He unites me ‘to another’ husband, and then I attain power to bring
                    forth fruit unto God. A beautiful—a wonderful
                    figure! We may not pursue it; but, Oh! what a wonderful figure! Alone under the
                    Law's power, my old husband, I could do nothing but agonize, wrestle, and
                    desire. There was no power in me but when Jesus Christ comes and unites me to
                    Himself; then He gives me power to bring forth fruit unto God. It is by the
                        UNION OF MY SOUL WITH HIM. You say, ‘Explain it!’ I cannot. God
                    Himself cannot explain it. We cannot explain it, but we know it. As
                    Jesus said to Nicodemus: ‘The wind bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest
                    the sound thereof, but canst not tell whence it cometh, and whither it goeth: so
                    is every one that is born of the Spirit.’ The mystery is too great to be
                    explained, but there is the beautiful illustration; united to Christ I have
                    power to conquer, to subdue, to trample under foot those things which heretofore
                    have been my master, and by virtue of Him I retain the power, and no other way.
                    Oh! dear friends, what a delusion there is on the subject of Christian
                    knowledge. If knowledge could save people, what a wonderful world we should have
                    to-day.
                Knowledge is as powerless as ignorance. A man is not a whit nearer God, or more
                    like Christ, because he has his head crammed with this Word. In fact, some I
                    have known who have been best acquainted with the Word, who have been the
                    greatest slaves of sin; and even ministers of Jesus Christ have confessed to me
                    that they have been bond-slaves of some besetting sin. The power is not in
                    knowledge—and God is raising up thousands of witnesses to this fact, that it is
                    not in knowledge —it is in union with Him, and
                    the little child in intellect and intelligence, who has the real, vital union
                    with Jesus, has more power than the most cultivated theologian has without
                    Christ. The things of God can only be understood by those who have the Spirit of
                    God. The world by wisdom knows not God any more now than it did in Paul's days.
                    The things of the Spirit are only spiritually comprehended. Hence this beautiful
                    union cannot be explained; I only know it is spoken of all through the Bible,
                    both in the Old Testament and in the New, as knowing God. After God
                    has summed up the failures of His people, He gives them a promise, and says, ‘I
                    will betroth thee unto Me in righteousness for ever, and thou shalt
                        KNOW the Lord,’ as though that were the end of the whole matter,
                    really and truly to know Him. When they come to that living union of soul with
                    Him, it brings the vital sap as it were into the branch of the tree—another of
                    his own beautiful illustrations. ‘Abide in Me, and I in you. As the branch
                    cannot bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine; no more can ye, except
                    ye abide in Me.’ You know what the branch is when it is broken off. It is a
                    branch. It retains the form of a branch; and for a while the beauty and the
                    greenness of a branch, but it is broken off. There is no power in it. Suppose it
                    could maintain that form. Alas! human branches often maintain their verdure in a
                    certain beauty, as when first lopped off. But it can never bear fruit. Why?
                    Because the communication is cut between itself and the vine, and there is no
                    sap in its fibre. Its life is cut off. Now, my friends, you can see why a soul who has never been truly united to
                    Christ in this living spiritual marriage, cannot bear fruit unto God.
                You can be like a branch. You can get so much scriptural knowledge, that you can
                    look just like a real Christian. Alas! You can get many of the feelings of a
                    Christian, and of the sentiments, as well as a great many of the aspirations and
                    desires, of a Christian. You can be so like a branch that nobody, but Jesus
                    Christ, may know you are not in that true Vine, and yet you have never, as the
                    Apostle says, been grafted on to the olive tree. And, therefore, you go on
                    weeping, and struggling, and trying to perform the function of a living branch,
                    when all the while you are a dead one. You go on trying to bring forth fruit
                    unto God when the one indispensable condition of fruitfulness is wanting. You
                    have got every other condition. You may even be nailed up to the wall close to
                    the vine. You may be such a professor that nobody may ever doubt you. You may be
                    so close to the vine that nobody can detect your want of union, excepting the
                    Gardener who comes and closely inspects you, and yet you may not have one fibre
                    truly circulating the real spiritual sap. HENCE YOU HAVE NO POWER,
                    and down you go when the temptation comes. Ah! what weary years of strife some
                    professing Christians have—they would be ashamed to tell; death sometimes forces
                    it from their lips before they die—trying to perform the functions of living men
                    when they have never been spiritually made alive. All they have ever had has
                    been what Paul depicts as the struggle of a
                    poor convicted sinner unable to bring forth any fruit unto God.
                Now, you say, this union with Him—what is it? Well, I cannot explain it. You, who
                    know what it is cannot explain it—so to know the Lord as to be conscious of the
                    living sap circulating through your soul, anointing your eyes with eye-salve,
                    giving you eyes to see, a voice to speak, feet to run, and hands to serve—making
                    you in all respects a ‘new creature.’
                Now, my dear friends, those of you who have not experienced this, never mind who
                    comes to you and brings a Bible, and says, ‘Do you believe this and that? if you
                    do you are saved.’ Say, ‘Miserable comforters are ye all: I will never be
                    content until I know God.’
                I made up my mind to this when I was fifteen years of age. I had had the
                    strivings of God's Spirit all my life, since I was about two years old. My dear
                    mother has often told me how she went upstairs to find me crying, and when she
                    questioned me, I said I was crying because I had sinned against God. Thank the
                    Lord, I do not say this boastingly. I have good cause to be ashamed that I was
                    so long before I fully gave myself up; but all through my childhood I was
                    graciously sheltered by a watchful mother from outward sin, and, in fact,
                    brought up as a Christian. When I came to be between fifteen and sixteen, when I
                    believe I was thoroughly converted, the great temptation of Satan to me was
                    this: ‘You must not expect such a change as you read of in books. You have been
                    half a Christian all your life. You always feared God. You must content yourself with this.’ Oh! how I was
                    frightened! It must have been the Spirit of God that taught me. I was frightened
                    at it. I said, ‘No. no.’ My heart is as bad as other people's, and if I have not
                    sinned outwardly I have inwardly. I cried to God to show me the evil of my
                    heart, and said, ‘I will never rest till I am as thoroughly and truly changed,
                    and know it, as any thief, or any great outward sinner.’ I went on seeking God
                    in this way for six weeks, often till two o'clock in the morning, wrestling, and
                    I told the Lord I would never give up, if I died in the search, until I found
                    God, and I did find Him, as every soul does, when it comes to him in that way. I
                    cried for nothing on earth or in Heaven but that I might find Him whom my soul
                    panted after, and I did find Him, and you can find Him. I knew Him. I can't tell
                    how, but I knew Him. I knew He was well pleased with me. I knew that we held
                    sweet converse often to the small hours of the morning together, and I know that
                    I was as happy in His love, and far more happy than I ever was in any human love
                    before or since.
                Now, friends, you can all have this union. He is no respecter of persons. He has
                    bought it for us. He saw our weakness. He contemplated our moral inability. He
                    need not have come if we could have known God by the Law. If that old covenant
                    had been perfect, there would have been no room for a second. It brought us not
                    into the full realization and enjoyment of God, but the new covenant does. It
                    cleanses the conscience from dead works to serve the living God, and God is
                    henceforth revealed to His people, and they walk with Him. ‘If a man love Me, he will keep My words; and My Father will love
                    him, and We will come unto him and make Our abode with him.’ And when a man has
                    got the Father and the Son, he is a match for Satan and all his forces. Union
                    with Christ!
                Oh! do you think this is a mere allegory of the Apostle's? It is a beautiful
                    illustration. When He delivers us from the condemning, reigning power of the
                    Law, we become married to Jesus Christ. Then we get a power to produce, in our
                    affections, and hearts, and lives, and all about us, such things as God delights
                    in.
                Now, mark, all through the New Testament, and, indeed, the Bible, no truth is
                    taught with greater force and frequency than this, that without a vital union of
                    soul with Christ, all ceremonies, creeds, beliefs, professions, church
                    ordinances, are sounding brass and tinkling cymbals, and all who trust in them
                    will be deceived. This is the very essence of the Gospel. This is what He came
                    for, and (Oh! how my heart bleeds to think and say it) all who do not attain to
                    this real vital union with Him will be lost. Everything else falls
                    short of our need and the purpose and end of the Gospel of Christ. He came on
                    purpose for us to have this union with Himself. Neither circumcision, nor
                    uncircumcision, nor anything else availeth anything, but this faith, which
                    worketh by love, and brings the Spirit of Christ into our hearts. Oh! bear with
                    me; dear friends, have you got it? Have you got this vital union with Christ?
                    Are you bringing forth fruit unto God? If not, I beseech you give up daubing yourselves with untempered mortar, and trying
                    to make yourselves believe you are right, when you are all wrong. However much
                    desire, purpose, hope, aspiration, struggle, or whatever else you have, if you
                    have not attained to this, you are not saved yet, and you are not in the
                    Kingdom.
                In conclusion, ‘bring forth fruit unto God,’ or, as the Apostle has it, ‘having
                    your fruit unto Holiness and the end everlasting life’—and in another place, for
                    the ‘end of the commandment,’ the purpose of the commandment, the ultimatum of
                    the commandment, ‘is charity,’ love, ‘out of a pure heart,’ and so in many other
                    passages; but we just take these at random.
                The result! What is the result? ‘That we may bring forth fruit unto God.’ Jesus
                    Christ in this union recognizes the fact that we are still in the body; still in
                    the world; and that we are open to the attacks of Satan. He knows—has foreseen,
                    and has provided for, the temptations of the flesh, that is, the temptations
                    which come to us through our natural appetites, and instincts, and desires, as
                    they came to Him. He was hungry after enduring the great temptation in the
                    wilderness. There was no sin in being hungry. He was intensely hungry, for He
                    had nerves, and a brain, and a heart, as we have. He was a perfect man, and He
                    suffered all the consequences of that lengthened strain upon His nervous system,
                    and the Devil took advantage of the existence of that intensely excited
                    condition of His body by tempting Him unlawfully to gratify it. For he said,
                    ‘Command these stones that they be made bread.’ This was unlawful under the circumstances (we will not stop now to inquire
                    why), and, therefore, He said, ‘Get thee behind Me, Satan.’ He would rather
                    suffer the hunger than unlawfully gratify it, and, therefore, He did not commit
                    sin. It matters not (and this will meet the case of some who have written to me)
                    how intensely excited any physical appetite may be—that is not sin.
                    The more you suffer through the excitement of the physical appetite, of whatever
                    kind it may be, the more Jesus Christ sympathizes with you, for He was tempted
                    in all points, like as we are, yet without sin; and if you endure temptation, He
                    will sympathize with you, more than with the man who does not have to endure and
                    resist. You do not sin because of the appetite merely being excited. I think
                    Satan gets some sincere souls to bring themselves into condemnation when God
                    does not condemn them. If you resist as He did; if you say, ‘Get thee behind me,
                    Satan’—you sin not. What was Eve's sin? Unlawful self-gratification. The Devil
                    might have tempted her until now, if she had lived so long; but if she had
                    steadily resisted him, she would not have brought sin into the world.
                Under the Law you see that it is sin, and you struggle against it, but you have
                    no power to resist, and down you go. United to Christ, you see that it is sin,
                    and you have power to resist, and you resist it, and the Devil runs away; and
                    that is the difference. You are married to a new husband now, and He is more
                    than a match for the old Devil. He is a conquered foe, while you abide in
                    Christ. He can torment, harass, and excite you, and stimulate your natural appetites, but he cannot make you sin,
                    while you abide in Christ. ‘He that is begotten of God keepeth himself and that
                    Wicked One toucheth him not.’ ‘Ye are strong and have overcome the Wicked
                    One.’
                Then, again, we are open to the temptations of the world, but this is provided
                    for. Jesus Christ knows that we are susceptible to the liking of nice things
                    like other people, and great things, and ambitious schemes, and the world's
                    praises and censures. God's people are only sadly too familiar with this, and
                    the weak part of their nature would respond to it, and they would fall; but now
                    they are united to Christ, and He opens their eyes to see that it is Satan and
                    the world. When the Devil takes them to the top of the pinnacle, and shows them
                    all the glory of the world, he tries to make them think it would be very nice to
                    have it; he tempts them to think it hard that they should be regarded as such
                    paltry and mean people, because they belong to Christ; but when they are
                    thoroughly and truly united to Jesus, He gives them power to say, as He did,
                    ‘Get thee behind Me, Satan,’ for it is written, ‘Thou shalt love the Lord thy
                    God, and Him ONLY shalt thou serve’—not Him and the world. Oh!
                    thank God, if you have got there. Praise the Lord, if you understand that.
                Then he comes not only through these avenues, but he comes again with direct,
                    subtle, spiritual influence, with his old insinuation, as he came to Eve, and
                    says, ‘Hath God said’ this, or that? He tries to inject doubts as to God's
                    goodness and veracity into the believer's soul, as he used to do under the Law, and under the Law the convicted
                    sinner's soul used to swell with rebellion, and say, ‘Yes, it is hard and
                    cruel.’
                Now, Satan still comes and vomits these thoughts, and tries to excite these ill
                    feelings and these chargings of God foolishly in the believer's soul, but by
                    virtue of his union with Christ, who came not to do His own will, but His
                    Father's, and who spoke only the things that His Father bade Him, the believer
                    says, ‘Though He slay me, yet will I trust in Him.’ ‘Shall not the Judge of all
                    the earth do right?’—and the Devil is gone. And then when the Devil is foiled at
                    all these points, he tries higher ground. ‘Really you are a wonderful
                    Christian—you are. You have had special grace, for surely very few people can
                    have resisted the amount of temptation that you have. Really you must be one of
                    God's specially favoured ones. Now cast yourself down. It is written, “He shall
                    give His angels charge concerning you.”’ Spiritual presumption next. When he is
                    foiled through the world, and the flesh, and the Devil, and then he doffs his
                    old robe and comes as an angel of light. But the soul's Bridegroom is hard by,
                    and He says, ‘Be not ignorant of Satan's devices. Behold I am thy Salvation.
                    Trust and be not afraid.’ And so the soul refuses to cast itself into
                    unnecessary troubles, and is content to abide in, and walk with its Lord. That
                    is how He gives us the victory. He shows us Satan's devices, and gives us power.
                    I cannot tell you how. We don't know how. We only know that He gives it to us,
                    and we only know that if one instant separated
                    from Him we fall and become as other men. We only know that in those seasons
                    when our faith has relaxed its grasp, we have gone down in the mud and been
                    overcome as others. It is by faith we stand, and while, like Peter, we keep our
                    eye on Him, and hold Him fast, the waves may roar, and the winds may howl, but
                    He holds us by virtue of this union, and we bring forth fruit unto God. We have
                    power over the Devil. He said, ‘I will give you power over all the power of the
                    enemy.’ This is the deliverance of the SAINTS. This is the life of
                    the saints. This is the fight of faith. THIS IS THE JOY OF
                        SALVATION. This is the SORT OF RELIGION THAT DOES TO DIE
                        WITH!!!
                People all over the land are astounded at our poor, weak, illiterate Salvation
                    Army Soldiers. A gentleman, in a Meeting on Easter Monday, a leading man of
                    thought and experience in the Holiness world, who was there all day—when my
                    daughter said, ‘Why don't you speak?’—said, ‘One feels as if one can't speak in
                    these Meetings.’ ‘Why?’ These people have such unction from the Holy One that
                    they are wiser than their teachers. Another gentleman, of considerable position,
                    too, in the religious world, said, ‘I feel like getting down at their feet. I
                    feel as if they could teach me.’ How is it that they have such power—these babes
                    in intellect and intelligence? All over the land people say this to me. People
                    who talk and go ahead in other meetings, when they get into our Meetings, say,
                    ‘I can't. They are so far ahead of me that, to tell you the truth, I have
                    nothing to say.’ I say, the Lord have mercy upon you, and make haste and come up after them. Only get down from
                    your high mightiness as low as these people, and you will get it. It is not
                        because they are poor and illiterate, that they have power, but
                    because they are babes in spirit. Even as Christ said, ‘I thank Thee, O Father,
                    that Thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed
                    them unto babes.’ The simple spirit, the teachable, believing soul—Oh! how much
                    more it learns of God, in one hour's precious communion, than Doctors of
                    Divinity learn in weeks of close study, who have not got it, because it is the
                        SPIRIT that teaches the things of God. This is union with Jesus
                    that bringeth forth fruit unto God, and, Oh! the wonderful things it enables us
                    to bring forth. If you would all follow me, as far as I have gone this
                    afternoon, and make the resolution I made at fifteen years of age, not to be put
                    off with theories, but that you will KNOW THE LORD, that you
                        will have this Divine union, and that you will
                    never rest till you get it and know you have it—if we could all get thus far by
                    next Sunday—what happiness there would be amongst you. There would
                    be some Hallelujahs. Many of you would be surprised—how you would find your
                    tongues. A gentleman once said to me, ‘I never did shout in my life, but upon my
                    word I couldn't help it.’ I said, ‘Amen. It's time, then, you began.’ I hope it
                    may be the same with many of you. When the Lord comes to His Temple and fills it
                    with His glory, you won't know what to do. You must find vent somewhere, or you
                    will be as the poor old negro said he was—‘Ready to bust his waistcoat.’ We feel so about temporal things. People drop
                    down dead with joy. People shriek with grief. People's hearts stand still with
                    wonder at the news they have heard, perhaps from some prodigal boy. I heard of a
                    mother, not long ago, whom some one injudiciously told of the sudden return of
                    her son, who dropped down dead, and never spoke. And when the Master cames to
                    His Temple, that glorious blessed Holy Saviour, whom you profess so to long
                    after and to love, and who has been absent so many years, and whom you have been
                    seeking after with strong crying and tears, when He comes, do you think it will
                    be too much to shout your song, or go on your face, or do any extravagant thing?
                    Oh! no, if there is reality, you cannot help yourself. The manifestation will be
                    according to your nature. One will fall down and weep in quietness, and the
                    other will get up and shout and jump. You cannot help it. I have read of two
                    martyrs one of whom rejoiced in the realization of God's presence, and the other
                    was in darkness, yet did not deny his Lord. He continued in the way of
                    obedience, and the other was encouraging him to hope and believe that the Master
                    would come; but He had not come, when they started from the dungeon to the
                    stake; so they fixed upon a sign, and the one said to the other, ‘If He comes,
                    you will give me the sign on the road.’ The Master did come, but the martyr
                    could not confine himself to the sign. He shouted, raising his arms to his
                    fellow-martyr, ‘He's come, He's come, He's come.’ He couldn't help it. When He
                    comes you won't be ashamed who knows it. When you really get a living Christ for
                        your husband, you will be prouder than the
                    bride, you will have got a husband worth being proud of, and you will love to
                    acknowledge and praise Him, and the day is coming when you will crown Him before
                    all the host of Heaven. The Lord help you to accept Him, and put away everything
                    that hinders His coming. Amen.
            
            
                
                THE FRUITS OF UNION WITH CHRIST
                
                THE FRUITS OF UNION WITH CHRIST
                
                    ROMANS viii. 4.
                    —‘That the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not
                        after the flesh, but after the Spirit.’
                
                WE dealt, on Sunday week, with ‘What the Law could not do’; and last
                    Sabbath afternoon we dealt with ‘What Jesus Christ could do,’ by uniting us with
                    Himself and giving us power. I want, this afternoon, to direct your attention to
                    the fruits of this union—THE LAW FULFILLED IN US. What
                    does it mean? FIRST.—I want just to say two or three words about Law in
                    the abstract. There seems to me to be an awful misconception of the Apostle's
                    writings respecting the Law, caused by ‘wresting’ and misapplying what he says
                    on justification by faith. People should bear in mind that much of this Epistle,
                    and some others, was written on purpose to meet the extreme legal notions of the
                    Jews, who had no other idea of righteousness than that of their own efforts to
                    keep the Law (Romans x. 3), and that, therefore, the Apostle was
                    bound, as any other writer would be in such circumstances, to put the extreme
                    view on the other side. Many, not considering this, separate these passages from
                    their explanatory connections, and from all the rest of the Word of God, and
                    preach, nowadays, that we have nothing to do
                    with the Law. Hence, there has come to be a spirit of Antinomianism abroad in
                    the land, compared with which the Antinomianism of bygone ages was harmless. God
                    helping me, I shall never cease to lift up my voice against it.
                Now please, first note that there is, in this writing, talking, and
                    singing about the Law a great deal of mental fog and confusion. People should be
                    very careful, when they come to such matters as these, to be clear in their own
                    minds as to what the Apostle is writing about; but I find frequently in such
                    writings and songs a total misapprehension as to the meaning of the Apostle, and
                    a total confounding of the Moral with the Ceremonial Law. Now, always mind, when
                    you read anything about the Law, to examine and find out which Law is meant,
                    whether it is the great Moral Law, which never has been, and never can be,
                    abrogated, or the Ceremonial Law, which, in Christ, confessedly was done away.
                    Mind which, because your Salvation may depend upon that point. If you make a
                    mistake there, you may be lost through it; therefore, be very careful. Now, I
                    say that people confound these, and, consequently, there is a perfect
                    hotch-potch of theology in this day, which I defy anybody to understand. People
                    do not know what they are to believe, or what they are not to believe. As a
                    gentleman said, not long ago, ‘It is confusion confounded. I go to one meeting
                    and hear this, and then I go to another meeting and hear that, and, very often,
                    in the very same meeting, the speakers will get up and flatly contradict each
                        other!’ ‘Exactly,’ I said, ‘but you have
                    got the Bible. Why don't you study that for yourself? Why not use your own
                    common sense—why not let your conscience speak?’ ‘But,’ said he, ‘why do not our
                    ministers do it?’ ‘Because,’ said I, ‘many of them do not know it themselves.
                    Let your conscience speak, and God will not let you go wrong.’ It is an honest
                    heart people want, and then they will get the light. People sing about the Law,
                    talk about the Law, and glory in being free from the Law, in a lawless,
                    Antinomian spirit, as far from anything Paul ever wrote or meant, as Hell is
                    from Heaven! Oh, it is an awfully bad sign, when people are out of love with the
                    Law of God. David made his boast in the Law of his God, he meditated on it by
                    day and by night, and its precepts were his delight; he loved it with all his
                    soul, and so did David's Son, and He is too much in love with His Father's Law
                    and Will to hold fellowship with anybody who does not love it. As He said to the
                    Jews, ‘He that is of God, heareth God's words; ye, therefore, hear
                    them not, because ye are not of God’; and, again, of His disciples, ‘For I have
                    given unto them the words which Thou gavest me.’ So, mind, if you
                    do not love the words, the expression of the will of
                    God, you do not love God, and if you do not love the Father, neither do you love
                    the Son. This is the very accusation which He brought against the Jews, that
                    they had made void His Father's Law. Let us mind, then, the distinction always
                    made between the great Moral and the Ceremonial Law.
                In the second place: I want you to note, that when you have ascertained that the Apostle is speaking of
                    the Moral Law—and he appears to speak disparagingly of it—he is always referring
                    to its inability to justify a sinner, or to produce spiritual life. This, he
                    says, it could not do; but he never speaks disparagingly of it as the guide and
                        standard of spiritual life, after life is given.
                    No! he goes back to it as the only standard, and so did Jesus Christ. They
                    continually refer to the Law as the highest expression of the holiness and
                    righteousness of God, and as the standard by which we are to set our souls and
                    consciences. What other standard have we but the Law? How am I to judge of my
                    thoughts, words, and actions but by the Law? Where has Jesus Christ given me any
                    other gauge? And if people would but read on, and let the Apostle
                    explain himself, they would understand him better, and not get into such
                    tanglements and mazes! Paul is most careful to guard himself against the
                    Antinomian conclusions which he saw might be drawn from isolated
                    parts of his writings. He says, ‘Do we, then, make void the Law through faith?
                    nay, we establish the Law.’ And, again, ‘Wherefore the Law is holy, and the
                    commandment holy, just, and good’; and, again, when he says, that ‘To them that
                    are without Law He became as without Law’; he guards himself by a parenthesis,
                    ‘Being not without Law to God, but under the Law to Christ.’ That is under the
                    great universal Law of love, which fulfils all other law; for ‘Love is the
                    fulfilling of the Law.’ Love is the very spirit and essence of the Law. The Law
                    is to me the highest expression of what I OUGHT to be, in my
                    relations to my Creator and in my 
                        rela-
                        relations
                     tions to my fellow-creatures. Now,
                    can what ought to be ever be abrogated? Does it stand to sense? Can
                    the rightness of things ever be altered? Can God ever make two and two five, and
                    can God make evil good and good evil? He can make an evil person
                    good, by saving him from the evil and making him good; but God cannot make evil
                    itself good, and good evil, and He never professes to do it.
                Oh, this confounding of things! how it does ruin and befog poor souls: How can it
                    ever be less the duty of the creature to love and serve the Creator, than it was
                    when he first came pure and spotless from His hand? How can it ever be less my
                    duty to love my neighbour as myself, than it was at the beginning, or how can I
                    satisfy my conscience with less than loving all men with a pure, benevolent love
                    such as God bears to them, in my measure and according to my capacity? The same
                    standard remains, and the difference between God's scheme of Salvation and the
                    scheme of Salvation so widely preached now, is that man's scheme proposes to get
                    me into Heaven without fulfilling this Law, while God's scheme proposes to give
                    me power to FULFIL IT. Alas! I am afraid many will not find out
                    which is the right one, man's or God's, till they get to the Judgment Seat and
                    find it out too late!
                Now, I say, that there is not a word, rightly understood and interpreted by
                    correlative Scriptures, in the whole New Testament that disparages or ignores or
                    sets aside the Law of God—not a word! Do you think the Apostle was as
                    unphilosophical as many nowadays? Did he not know what he wrote? Is he not as
                    clear as a bell? And now he comes to the
                    climax of his argument, the great end and purpose towards which he has been
                    advancing in his preceding reasonings: ‘THAT the righteousness of
                    the Law might be FULFILLED in us.’ As though he had said, ‘This
                    great and glorious end which was lost in Adam shall be re-found and restored.’
                    So the old serpent shall be circumvented at last, and God's people shall be able
                    to fulfil this beautiful ideal of rectitude and righteousness which God has
                    planned for man—Jesus Christ shall destroy the work of the Devil, restore man,
                    and enable him to walk in the light, even as He is in the light. What the
                        Law tried to do by a restraining power from without, the Gospel does by an
                        inspiring power from within. That is the difference. I could not keep
                    it in the letter, but, united to my heavenly Bridegroom, I can keep it in the
                    Spirit. He fills me with His love, and this enables me to keep the Law, for love
                    is the furfilling of the Law. ‘Love worketh no ill to his neighbour’ of any
                    kind, and, again, the great Teacher said, ‘For all the Law is
                    fulfilled in one word—Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.’ If you do that,
                    will you injure your neighbour? See how the Spirit fulfils the Law! If you love
                    your neighbour, will you misrepresent him, cheat him, envy him anything that he
                    possesses or enjoys? ‘No,’ you say, ‘of course not; it is a contradiction.’ Very
                    well, then, get this love in your soul and you will fulfil the Law. Love is the
                    fulfilling of the Law, and he that loveth in this sense dwelleth in God and God
                    in him. Love is the fulfilling of the Law, and the great glory of the Gospel of
                    Christ is that it brings us back to love His Law, and as the angels delight in it, and as all holy intelligences
                    delight in it, so we delight in it, and the righteousness of the Law—high, deep,
                    and broad, and long as it is—shall be fulfilled in us, ‘who walk not after the
                    flesh, but after the Spirit.’
                Then, I say, the Apostle evidently considered this fulfilment of the Law of
                    Righteousness in us as the highest end of our existence and of redemption; for,
                    he says, God sent His Son that the righteousness of the Law may be fulfilled in
                    us. Mark, not that its claims shall be abated: Oh! not one jot or
                    tittle shall ever be abated. They cannot. God could not abate them. Not that the
                    righteousness of the Law shall cease to have a claim upon you. Oh!
                    if He could have saved us like that, Christ need not have come at all. He could
                    have saved us without a Mediator. No, no! but that the righteousness of the Law
                    may be FULFILLED in us as it was in Him. That we should be brought
                    to the full stature of men and women in Christ Jesus, that we should have this
                    spirit of our heavenly Bridegroom, by which we fulfil the Law, and the servant,
                    in his measure, shall be as his Lord.
                How? As I explained, last Sunday, first: We shall be delivered from the
                    reigning, condemning power of the Law by virtue of an infinite, vicarious
                    sacrifice punished in our stead, and then, married to Him, we shall
                        serve in the newness of the spirit, and not in the oldness of
                    the letter.
                I want to be eminently and intensely practical, for the sake of the hungering and
                    thirsting souls who are asking me in their letters, ‘Tell me how? Help me?’
                Just let us look at this result (in fourth verse). People talk about glorifying Christ; but, it seems to
                    me, this does glorify Him. It seems to me here is something to glory in, that He
                    has circumvented the old serpent and snatched the prey from his teeth, and
                    restored it, and enabled man, after all, to fulfil the righteousness of God. Not
                    only in what Christ does for us; but what He does IN US, that God
                    should look on you and say, ‘I am well pleased. There is nothing there contrary
                    to My will.’ He will give you the testimony, as He did Enoch, that your ways
                    please Him, that your thoughts please Him, that your motives, and purposes and
                    desires, and actions please Him. That is what the Gospel proposes to do. We have
                    seen how this spirit is produced. Now let us look at the fruits, and first:
                This fruit is brought forth in THE AFFECTIONS!
                Those people who are thus united to Christ fulfil the Law in their affections.
                    You know it is commonly said that if you get hold of the affections of a man or
                    a woman you get hold of him or her. So you do. This is the touchstone, and there
                    is nothing in which I have been so grieved and disappointed as in the manifest
                    want of quickness, livingness in the affections of God's people for Him. Oh! how
                    I have seen this come out. The coldness, the unsympathetic character of a great
                    many people's religion, and yet people whom one would not like to
                    unchristianize. I cannot explain it by any better term than want of
                        quickness. I have often been struck with the difference when
                    you touch individuals on some point that affects them personally, and on those
                    which relate to the Kingdom of God, and have been tempted to say with the Apostle, ‘All men seek their own, and
                    not the things that are Jesus Christ's.’ Alas! I fear it is very largely so. You
                    talk with a lady about the Salvation of her children's souls, the souls of her
                    neighbours, and her servants, or about the cause of God in general, and she will
                    talk ‘good’ with you, so to speak, and you will feel, ‘yes, it is all very
                    well,’ but it doesn't seem to come up from the depths. It seems to come from the
                    throat, so to speak; a sort of superficial, surface kind of thing. But, if a
                    child is dangerously ill, how quick the mother's sympathies, how ready to
                    listen, how willing to do anything that you suggest to help the child. If the
                    business is in danger, if a man has got into difficulties and you can suggest
                    any plan by which he may get out of them, how quickly his attention is aroused.
                    His interest doesn't flag, because the subject touches him to the quick. It is
                        his concern, and just so in many other things. God forbid I
                    should judge all Christians. No, no, no!—there are blessed exceptions. There are
                    many like David—rivers of water do run down their eyes; but I am speaking of the
                    mass of professors. I am afraid that in their affections there is a great deal
                    of this lukewarm superficiality. Why is it? Because such people do not abide in
                    Christ, if ever they were in Him. They do not keep the freshness and the
                    quickness of the Spirit of Jesus. They do not give themselves time to do it for
                    one thing, or care about it for another. We want the constant indwelling of the
                    Holy Spirit to quicken our spiritual perceptions and keep us awake. It is
                    Satan's great desire to rock us to sleep, and there is no quality in which the 
                        dis-
                        disciples
                     ciples have been more conspicuous
                    than in going to sleep since the time when the professed watchers went to sleep
                    in the garden; but Jesus, in His mercy and love, is always wakening them. But,
                    oh! this disposition to go to sleep, to lose our quickness of perception. Now,
                    friends, what must you do? You must do as you did at first. Cry and believe till
                    your soul is filled with the love of God.
                I shall never forget reading, when only fourteen years of age, a sentiment of a
                    precious and valiant soldier of the Lord Jesus, who is now in Glory. Speaking of
                    putting a test, he said that people might easily find out whether they loved God
                    or themselves best: ‘Suppose you were in business in a little village, and were
                    doing pretty well, and everything was going smoothly with you; but there was
                    nothing for you to do there for the Kingdom of God, no particular way in which
                    you could serve or glorify God; and, suppose there was another little village
                    hard by, where there was nothing whatever doing for the Kingdom, and you felt it
                    laid upon your soul to go there in order that you might preach to unconverted
                    people and raise a church, and do something for souls. Ah! but you have got a
                    nice business and you don't know whether you would prosper or not in the other
                    village. Now you may know whether you are serving God or yourself first, by this
                    test. If you are serving God, you will be ready to go to that strange village
                    and trust Him with the consequences; but, if you are serving yourself, you will
                    stop where you are. The Lord has helped me to apply that many a time to many
                    things besides business, and to keep the Kingdom of God FIRST, as
                        I made up my mind it should be first
                    always—not in time merely, but in degree—all the way through. If I love Him
                    best, I shall feel for Him deepest, and shall act for Him first. If I love Him
                    best, I shall feel for Him more deeply than for my husband or children, near and
                    precious as they are and dearer than my own life a thousand times; but He will
                    be dearer still, and His interests; and if, as Jesus Christ says, His interests
                    require me to sacrifice these precious and beloved ones of my soul, then I shall
                    sacrifice them; for the philosophical reason that I love Him better than I
                        love them, and, therefore, I shall lay them on His altar, to promote
                    His glory. If I understand it, this is the fruit of the Spirit in the
                    affections—God first. I am afraid, in a great many instances, it is husband
                    first, wife first, children first, and, I am afraid, in some cases, business
                    first, and then God may take what there is left and be thankful for that! Now,
                    if you are in this condition you need not expect joy, peace, power. You will
                    never get it if you do. God will have to make you over again before you can get
                    it, and to alter the conditions of His Salvation. Oh! but if you will lay it all
                    on His altar, that is quite another thing.
                As I said to a lady, a little time ago, ‘The Lord can take your
                    husband, if you refuse to give him to Him’; and I am afraid God's
                    people often compel Him to take their darlings, because they make them idols;
                    whereas, if they had laid them on His altar, they might have had them back, as
                    Abraham received back Isaac. I said to a gentleman, ‘Mind that God does not burn
                    down your barns, wreck your ships, and take away your riches. God loves your soul enough to do it, if you let these
                    things prevent that whole-hearted consecration which He requires.’ We are in His
                    hands. ‘Whom He loveth He chasteneth,’ and if you want to keep the precious
                    things you have, oh! put them at His feet, and hold them in subordination to
                    Him. First, in your affections! He is a jealous God, and jealousy in God is very
                    much like jealousy in us. It is the same characteristic of mind, only purified
                    from selfishness. He is a jealous God, and if you will love these things better
                    than Him, and if you will not give Him your affections, then He will chastise
                    you, or—what is worse still—He will take His Holy Spirit from you.
                Fruit in your affections. Oh, if Christ had your affections, how it would operate
                    in everything! The wife would not be always grumbling because the husband had to
                    go out three or four evenings a week on the Lord's errands—only let them be the
                    Lord's errands. The husband would not grudge to give his wife up to go to help
                    to win souls, because it deprived him of her society or a few comforts that she
                    might provide for him if she were near. The parents would not grudge to restrain
                    their children, as Eli did. He did not restrain them from that which they liked,
                    and you know the fruit it brought. Parents who love God best will not allow
                    their children to learn anything which could not be pressed into the service of
                    God. They will not allow them to run with the giddy multitude, to dance, or do
                    anything the Devil might inspire them to desire. ‘No!’ they will say, ‘my
                    children belong to God, and I am going to train them for God and God only.’
                    Bless the Lord, He helped me to make up my mind to do that before I became a mother; and He has helped me to keep that
                    promise (though I have not been as faithful to it as I ought), casting aside
                    resolutely every temptation to the contrary. And now He is giving me the fruit
                    of my self-denial in the souls and labours of my precious children. One after
                    another, as they grow up, they take their natural place in the temple of the
                    Lord, and I believe they shall go out no more for ever. Oh, that parents would
                    do it! Parents might save their children. I know what a mother's
                    feelings are. I know the temptation there is to see them shine in competition
                    with others, and to excel others. I know it all; but I said, ‘No; “Get thee
                    behind me, Satan.” I will keep them for God’; and He has enabled me
                    to keep them for Him. Bless His holy name!
                I loved Him better than I loved them, and, much as I loved them (and those who
                    know me know I do love them), I would see them all in a row laid in
                    their coffins before I would sacrifice His interests and lose their souls. Do
                    you love Him best? Test yourself. Do you love Him more than all else? Are you
                    holding everything in subordination to Him?
                Further, this fruit will come out in our members—our bodies; and oh! there is a
                    deep spiritual meaning which, I trust, many of you know, in those words of the
                    Apostle, ‘The body is dead because of sin’; but ‘He shall quicken your mortal
                    bodies by His Spirit, that dwelleth in you.’ It is killed to the Devil, as well
                    as to sin, and all the uses of Satan; but it is quickened by the Spirit for the
                    use of God, so that you can render not only the calves of your lips, but your
                    hands, and eyes, and brain, and heart, and
                    feet, and the whole of your body to Him—your members instruments of
                    righteousness unto God. Hence, such a person will not feel his eyes are his own,
                    to rove at random wherever he lists. Such a person will not feel his tongue is
                    his own, to speak as he pleases. He will ‘bridle it,’ as James says, when
                    tempted to speak unadvisedly. Such a person will not feel that his hands are his
                    own, to waste the time in which he ought to be doing something for God. Such a
                    person will not feel his feet his own, to carry him where he likes, but where
                    his Master would have him go—his whole body consecrated, and, especially, his
                        tongue—consecrated to God, to testify for Him. He will feel
                    that he must feed his body, as my husband often says, on the same principle that
                    a man feeds his horse—to keep it in the best working condition for God—never
                    eating anything that will bring the devils of dyspepsia dancing round his soul.
                    And, not only so, with eating and drinking, but all his surroundings and
                    deportment must be in keeping. It is the Lord's body; and, if you
                    love Him best, you will keep it for Him: as the bride and the bridegroom keep
                    themselves for each other, so you will keep it for Him.
                This fruit will also appear in our family relations. We shall fulfil the Law to
                    our neighbours. You see, God wants only what we have to give Him. He is not a
                    hard master reaping where He has not sown, and the Great Teacher said, ‘This is
                    the first and great commandment,’ embracing all the rest, ‘Thou shalt love the
                    Lord thy God with all thy heart, and mind, and soul, and strength,’ and the
                    second is like unto it, ‘And thy neighbour as thyself’; and the man who does these is a perfect man, and fulfils
                    the law; and when you have the fullness of love that enables you to love God
                    best and your neighbour as yourself—enables you to do for the souls and bodies
                    of your fellows what you would like that they should do for you, if you changed
                    places, then the Law is fulfilled in you. Such people cannot sit 365 days in the
                    year at the table with unconverted people, and never try to get them saved. Such
                    people cannot abide in the same house with unbelievers, and not make them
                    miserable. Oh, no. The unconverted say, ‘It's too wretched to live here. I must
                    get out of this crying and praying for me all day long.’ As a servant once said,
                    she couldn't stand it. She had had praying enough at home, without coming there
                    to have it. She did stand it for six weeks, and broke down at the family altar
                    and GOT SAVED, and became a preacher afterwards. This spirit of
                    love will make every unconverted sinner within your reach so miserable that they
                    will have to be converted or run away. How would you do if they were
                        DYING? You would run about in every direction to get a
                    minister. What a pity you did not feel like this twelve years ago. You might
                    have got the sinner converted then, and he have been serving the Lord all the
                    time? But, now he is dying, what a stir you make. What a purely selfish religion
                    that is. You want him saved, so that he may get into HEAVEN, not
                    that he might serve, honour, and glorify God. You don't care at all about that.
                    He might live on in disobedience. Oh, be as much concerned for the honour of God
                    as you are for your friend's Salvation at the last, and then God will know how
                    to save them.
                
                This fruit will also appear in your church relations. It will bring forth fruit.
                    As the Apostle says, ‘Exhorting one another daily,’ not suffering sin in your
                    neighbour; reproving each other, and ‘confessing your faults one to the other.’
                    Where is any of it done? I should like very much to attend such a meeting, if
                    you invite me, where Christians really and honestly confess their faults one to
                    the other, and pray for one another, beseeching the Lord to heal them in those
                    particular points where they have failed, telling one another of the deep things
                    of God and talking lovingly and freely to one another as they used to do. It is
                    part of the communion of saints—‘exhort one another daily.’ The devil is at work
                    daily. The world is plying for us daily. The flesh is pleading daily. Everything
                    evil goes on daily. Why should not this exhorting one another, confessing your
                    faults to one another, and praying for one another go on daily too?
                Is it a fact that we are each other's keepers? Is it a fact that God will require
                    for our influence over other souls, I believe it.
                Then in our relations to the world—. But I forestalled this in my address on
                    ‘Aggressive Effort.’ And now let us go down on our knees before God and ask Him
                    to work this love in us, and give us this spirit, that we may thus FULFIL
                        THIS LAW in all its relations.
            
            
                
                WITNESSING FOR CHRIST
                
                WITNESSING FOR CHRIST
                
                    ACTS i. 8 (latter clause).
                    —‘Ye shall be witnesses unto Me both in Jerusalem, and in all Judæa, and in
                        Samaria, and unto the uttermost parts of the earth.’
                
                
                    ACTS v. 32.
                    —‘And ye are His witnesses of these things.’
                
                AGAIN and again the same vocation and commission is bestowed upon the
                    apostles and disciples. To the ends of the earth and to the end of time this
                    commission comes down to every one of the Lord's own, for He says: ‘Go ye into
                    all the world and preach the Gospel to every creature; and, lo, I am with you
                    always, even unto the end of the world.’ That embraces us. And to every disciple
                    who has preceded, or is to follow us, is promised His Divine Presence in this
                    glorious work of testifying for Him.
                
                    God needs witnesses in this world.
                
                Why? Because the whole world is in revolt against Him. The world has gone away
                    from God. The world ignores God, denies and contradicts His testimony,
                    misunderstands His character, government, and purposes, and is gone off into
                    utter and universal revolt and rebellion. Now if God is to keep any hold upon
                    man at all, and have any influence with him, He must be represented down here.
                    There was no other way of doing it. If a province of this realm were in anarchy
                    and rebellion, unless there be some persons in the province whose duty it is to
                    represent the King and his Government, it will
                    lapse altogether and be lost to the kingdom for ever. So God must be
                    represented, and, praise His name, He has had His faithful witnesses from the
                    beginning until now. As the apostle says—‘He left not Himself without witness.’
                    Down from the days of Enoch, who walked with God, to this present hour, God has
                    always had His true and faithful witnesses. In the worst times there have been
                    some burning and shining lights. Sometimes few and far between, sometimes, like
                    Noah, one solitary man in a whole generation of men, witnessing for God—but one,
                    at least, there has been. God has not left Himself without
                    witness.
                But Jesus Christ the Son—the well-beloved of the Father—He was the great
                        witness. He came especially to manifest, to testify of, and to reveal
                    the Father to men. This was His great work. He came not to testify of Himself,
                    but of His Father; not to speak His own words, but the words His Father gave Him
                    to speak. He came to reveal God to men. He was the ‘Faithful and
                    True Witness.’ And when He had to leave the world and go back to His Father,
                    then He commissioned His disciples to take His place, and to be God's witnesses
                    on earth. And Oh! friends, God's real people are His
                        only witnesses. He will not allow angels—we do not know why—to
                    witness for Him here. He has called man to witness for Him—His people—‘Ye shall
                    be witnesses unto Me.’
                Jesus ‘witnessed a good confession,’ did He not? He witnessed nobly,
                    consistently, bravely of His Father, and sealed His testimony with His blood.
                    The world treated Him as it has treated most
                    of God's faithful witnesses from the beginning: it persecuted Him; it slew Him,
                    as it would every faithful witness for God—if God allowed it—and
                    would leave itself without a single spiritual light: for the spirit that worketh
                    in the children of disobedience hath an eternal and devilish hatred of every
                    real, living, spiritual child of God. It hates him as it hates the Son Himself,
                    and it is not the Devil's fault if he does not extinguish and exterminate every
                    such witness. It is because God will not allow him, but holds us, keeps us,
                    saves us, in spite of him.
                The Lord commissioned, then, His disciples to be His witnesses, and He said—oh!
                    beautiful words, and yet, how much they involve which few understand—‘As Thou
                    hast sent Me into the world, even so send I them into the world.’ Even
                        so: as Thou hast sent Me to be Thy representative in the world, to
                    spend and be spent for Thee, and shed My blood for Thee; if necessary, so send I
                    them; and so He did send them, and they had just the same fare as their Master,
                    and many of them just the same end. But they were faithful witnesses, and they
                    went forward and testified everywhere, to the Jews and to the Gentiles, in the
                    Temple and in the Market Place, by the wayside and in the highways and
                    hedges—they went and testified of this Saviour, and charged the wicked Jews with
                    His crucifixion, and God accompanied their testimony by the Spirit, and
                    thousands upon thousands were converted—turned from their rebellion to God.
                Now, the fact that witnessing is necessary shows that there is controversy
                        going on in the world as to the
                    things and claims of God—that there are twu sides to this. The great mass of
                    mankind say, that God's truth is a lie. They say it virtually, if they do not
                    say it in words; and many thousands of them, alas! in words, also. They deny,
                    many of them, His very existence, and say there is neither Heaven nor Hell—that
                    Jesus Christ was a mere man—that religion is a myth, and that there is no such
                    thing as the knowledge of forgiveness of sins—that this witnessing is a grand
                    delusion of the imagination, and nothing further.
                Now, Christ calls His people to go and be witnesses to these facts. Witnesses,
                    you know, must deal with facts, not theories—not what they merely think, or
                    suppose, or have heard, but what they know. Now God wants His
                    people to witness to facts—to something that has been done, and is being
                    done—something that is and continues to be—fact.
                And He wants us to be GOOD witnesses, too. Oh! how much depends upon
                    the character of a witness even in an earthly court. If you can cast a
                    reflection upon the character or the veracity of a witness, you shake his
                    testimony, and take away its value. Oh! how important that Christ's witnesses
                    should be good witnesses-that is, that they should fairly and truly represent
                    Him and His truth—for, if they misrepresent Him, somebody is sure to be damned
                    through their inconsistency—and, how awful to have the blood of souls upon our
                    skirts! To misrepresent a man, or woman, or child, is bad enough, but to
                    misrepresent God!—to show a caricature of the religion of Jesus Christ!—to live
                    a wrong life and still profess to be a Christian, saying to people, virtually, ‘Look at me:—the way I live and
                        act—WHAT I AM—this is the religion of Jesus Christ.’ I say,
                    such a man had far better have a millstone hanged about his neck and be drowned
                    in the depths of the sea. There would, then, be an end of his mischief; but a
                    false witness on behalf of Jesus Christ is the most mischievous traitor on the
                    face of the earth. He does more harm than a thousand false hostile witnesses
                    against Him. Oh! my friends, to be good witnesses for Jesus Christ.
                    The more a witness is supposed to know of the truth to which he testified, the
                    greater his responsibility. Oh! for a minister to be a bad witness, as some of
                    the prophets of old were. Look at the awful things God says about them that lead
                    His people into the ditch, caring more about the fleece than the sheep—awful!
                    For a mother to be a bad witness in her family, and to take her little children,
                    clinging on to her skirts, right to the edge of the pit! For a master to be a
                    bad witness—to profess to be a Christian, and to be a bad witness before his
                    men; for a Sunday-school teacher to be a bad, inconsistent, false witness of
                    Jesus Christ in his class; for members of Christian Churches to be bad witnesses
                    to one another, and to the world; who can tell the awful results? Oh! it is this
                    inconsistent witnessing that has lowered and lowered the standard of practical
                    Christianity till we have not got any standard left—till the landmarks are so
                    obliterated, that there are not any to be seen.
                FAITHFUL witnesses! He wants us to be faithful witnesses.
                I want to note one or two qualifications of a
                    faithful witness, and, oh, may the Holy Spirit help us.
                The first qualification, then, of a faithful witness, is A personal
                        knowledge of the facts to which he witnesses. If a witness in a court
                    of justice begins to talk of what he thinks, feels, and believes, ‘Oh! hush,
                    hush,’ says the judge, ‘we can't have that; we want to know what you
                        KNOW—what you have seen, heard, and felt of this case’; and
                    these are the sort of witnesses Jesus Christ wants, who can get up and say,
                        ‘I KNOW!’ The sort of witness that St. Paul was, who could look
                    his judge in the face and say, ‘I would that thou wert altogether such as I am,
                    save these bonds.’ What an impudent man he must have been, if he was not a
                    sanctified man. What a supreme egotist! Those are the sort of witnesses. How
                    Agrippa must have felt, just then. How the tables were turned. ‘Oh, I am turned
                    into the dock, and here is the prisoner taking his seat upon the bench.’ That is
                    the sort of witnessing we want. ‘I would that thou wert altogether
                    such as I am, except these bonds.’ Could you stand up in the dock and say that?
                    Could you stand up in your own house and say it? Could you stand up
                        anywhere and say it? That is what the Lord Jesus Christ
                    wants—people who know, who experience, who realize, who live the things they
                    witness to. This is what the world is dying for—people who can get up and say,
                        ‘I KNOW.’ The Lord wants people to tell the world they are
                    saved. Can you? They will begin to listen to you then. You will begin to have
                    some effect on them. They will begin to open their eyes and ears, and wonder
                        whether it will be possible for God to
                    save them. This is altogether different from a fine-spun theory
                        about religion—this telling them that God has SAVED
                        YOU. Not what we have learned in books. The world is sick of that. I
                    don't wonder at intelligent men flying off from religion. I can make great
                    excuse when I think what many of them have to listen to from Sunday to Sunday.
                    As a gentleman said to me, ‘It's enough to sicken anybody. We do get something
                    in The Times, but, upon my word, I can't keep awake at church. It
                    is not that I would not, if I could, but I can't.’ Poor fellow! how I pitied
                    him.
                No! not what is got from books; not a dry, fine-spun theory, from mere hearsay.
                    When a witness begins with what he heard some one say, ‘Oh, hush!’ says the
                    judge, ‘we don't want that! we want to know what you have seen. Keep to the
                    facts.’ Jesus Christ wants you to keep to the facts. Tell them, as John says,
                    what you have seen, and heard, and handled, and realized of the truth of God.
                        Personal knowledge! It is wonderful how simple Salvation
                    language is, when you have learnt it by experience and are prepared to speak
                    plainly to the people.
                Then, a faithful witness must tell the truth, and the whole truth.
                    He must not hold back anything on account of personal inconvenience, suffering,
                    loss, or gain, but must tell the whole truth! Oh! I tremble to think what will
                    be the fate of some who set themselves up as teachers, and who have ‘kept back
                    part’ of the truth because, to their apprehension, it was not palatable or
                    profitable to mankind. What have I got to do
                    with that? I have to preach the truth—the beautiful, whole, round, diamond,
                    luminous with Divine light, and not a base, muddy, paste imitation, half truths
                    manufactured into damning errors, by which Satan is decoying thousands to Hell.
                    Give men the whole truth—both sides: the side that relates to God; and the side
                    that relates to man; and be done with the nonsense of making God contradict
                    Himself, for ‘God is light, and in Him is no darkness at all.’ If there were
                    contradictions, there would be darkness. No; the darkness is in our own poor,
                    blind, puny brains, and not in God or in His Book. In His Book, rightly
                    interpreted, there is no contradiction whatsoever. The whole truth:
                    the convicting truth as well as the healing truth; the sword as well as the
                    balm; the running in of the Divine knife as well as the pouring in of the Divine
                    oil. As Paul says, in the 26th chapter and 18th verse, ‘To open their eves, and
                    to turn them from darkness to light, and from the power of Satan unto God, that
                    they may receive forgiveness of sins.’ He says he preached to the Jews and
                    Gentiles that they should repent. This is the Apostle Paul, the great expounder
                    of Justification by Faith, ‘That they should repent,’ and what?—oh, you legal
                    Paul, what?—‘Do works meet for repentance.’ Oh, Paul, I thought you were saved
                    from works altogether and had done with the Law. Oh! you preach works, and doing
                    works meet for repentance. That is not Gospel, Paul! He significantly adds, ‘For
                    this cause the Jews caught me, and tried to kill me’: and for that cause the
                    Pharisees have been trying to kill God's true,
                    whole-truth witnesses ever since, for they don't like the doctrine that cuts
                    idols and sin in twain, and that says, ‘Bring forth fruits meet for
                    repentance.’
                The faithful witness must give the whole truth; and he must give it personally,
                    too. A faithful witness must give it himself. He can't witness by proxy. He may
                    pay one hundred and fifty evangelists to go and witness in his place: that is
                    all right. It is no more than he ought to do—two hundred and fifty, if he has
                    money enough—because the Master claims all that he has, little or much, every
                    farthing of it, however many preachers he may send and maintain.
                Therefore, he can never do any more than he ought, but that will not exonerate
                    him from the personal obligation. God will say to him: If I have put My candle
                    in you, it is that it may shine for somebody else's benefit. If I have given you
                    the bread of life, it is for you to go and break it to the famishing multitudes
                    round about you. YE are My witnesses. You may pay the minister and
                    the missionary, but you must do it yourself, too, for how can one
                    witness make up for two? True, God wants the minister to witness,
                    and it is no more than his duty if he witnesses all day long as long as he
                    lives. But that will never make up for your lack of service. YOU
                    must witness; and there are some souls with whom you have more influence
                        than any other living being—some souls that you can better get at
                    than any other person—some souls that, if you do not save, will, probably, never
                    be saved at all. Ye are My witnesses, and, if ye have the grace and love and
                    light of God, it is at the peril of your soul if you hide it.
                
                Then, in the next place, faithful witnesses must speak out, not mince the
                        mnatter—not ‘mumble,’ as they say in court. The judge makes the
                    witness speak up so that everybody may hear him. He must be heard.
                    ‘Speak out.’ And why should not the Lord's witnesses speak out? I wonder when we
                    shall be done with this sneaking, hole-and-corner, shame-faced religion. I
                    wonder when Christian England will cease to be ashamed of its God! The only
                    nation under Heaven ashamed of its religion and its God is the one that has got
                    the true God to worship and to love. What an anomaly; Speak out!
                David knew nothing about this mincing, half-and-half, milk-and-water sort of
                    religion. David rejoiced to tell of his righteousness before the great
                    congregation. He was always telling about His goodness, and His Law, and singing
                    about it all the day long, dancing before the ark sometimes, and doing all
                    manner of demonstrative things to glorify his God. And that was not enough, for
                    when he had called upon all human kind to praise Him, he called on the hills and
                    the trees to clap their hands and to dance for joy. We want some of
                        that sort of religion nowadays. Talk of the new dispensation, I
                    wish we could get a bit of the old one back.
                The interests of truth demand this outspokenness. How is error to be met but by
                    the bold proclamation of the truth? How are the emissaries of Satan palming upon
                    mankind his lies—always at it, night and day—how are they to be silenced but by
                    witnesses faithfully crying in their ears, ‘This is a lie, and that is a lie.
                    This is the truth and this is the way; we
                    know, we see, we feel—walk ye in it.’ Turn ye, turn ye, for why will ye die?
                    They want outspoken witnesses. There are plenty of false witnesses now, as there
                    ever were, and what does Jesus Christ want? He wants His true witnesses to come
                    out and face them, and be a match for them—not to sneak away in holes and
                    corners, and be ashamed of their religion, and talk about an ‘unobtrusive
                    religion’—unobtrusive nonsense. There is no such thing! Come out before the
                    world. As Elijah said, ‘If the Lord be God, follow Him,’ serve Him, speak for
                    Him; ‘but if Baal’ be God, ‘then follow him.’ Then away with all this nonsense,
                    your sanctuaries, and Bibles, and profession—have done with it all and follow
                    Baal. Be one thing or the other. Methinks there wants an Elijah now to come and
                    ring it through all England. I would like to see any man get up and make a
                    straightforward recognition of, and appeal to, God in our Houses of Parliament,
                    and I would like to see how he would be greeted.
                I was thinking, as I was passing the Royal Exchange and saw on the top, ‘The
                    earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof,’ how many believed it who walked
                    beneath its shadow. I wonder what any one would be thought of, were he
                    practically to recognize the fact. ‘Oh!’ they would say, ‘he's not fit for his
                    post—you'll have to take him away; he's a little affected in his head.’ Oh! you
                    know it is so; but God is not mocked, though men think He is. God sits in the
                    circle of Heaven, and though the people do rage, and the heathen imagine a
                        vain thing, and the kings of the earth set
                    themselves, He is laughing at them, and by and by will come their calamity.
                We say the world is dying; what for? Sermons? No. Periodicals? No. Religious
                    stories? Oh! dear no. There is no chance of a want of them for many a long year
                    to come. Dying for disquisitions? No. For fine-spun theories? No. For creeds and
                    faiths? Oh! you might have them by the dozen. What is it dying for?—downright,
                    straightforward, honest, loving, earnest testimony about what God can DO
                        FOR SOULS. That is what it wants. That is what those
                    poor men in the shops, those walking up and down Oxford Street, in the theatres,
                    in the dancing saloons, in the concert rooms, everywhere, that is what men want:
                    somebody to come and take them lovingly by the collar, and tell them that
                        GOD IS GOD, and that He can save them. ‘He has saved me, my
                    brother, and He can save you!’ That is what the world wants. One
                    word like that is better than a sermon, and it will do more for God and the
                    Salvation of the world. Oh, yes, men are saying, in fact all over this
                    land—thousands, ‘Here I am; I am a poor slave of sin. I know it.’ They say it in
                    their consciences, though they do not say it to you. They say it often to us
                    when they are pushed into a corner by the sword of the Spirit. ‘I know I am
                    wrong, sinful, wicked.’ As that dear John Allen, whose life I have been telling
                    about, said once when sitting swearing, surrounded by his companions, and
                    somebody said to him, ‘Jock, if you were to die, what would become of you?’ ‘I
                    should go to Hell, straight!’ He was an honest
                    fellow. He knew where he was going, and he said it.
                I said to a gentleman, ‘Mr. So-and-so, what about your soul?’ He said, ‘It's in a
                    devilish state.’ Poor man! He knew where he was going, and there are thousands
                    like him. Do you think they don't feel their bondage? Have they not got a mind
                    and a conscience? Have they not a better side, as you call it, to their nature?
                    Has not God flashed the light of His Holy Spirit upon their dark souls, and have
                    they not struggled and striven? Yes, but they say, ‘There is no health in us;
                    there is no help for us. We have done making resolutions and trying to be
                    better; we cannot. There is no hope in us.’ And there they are waiting for
                    somebody to come and tell them there is HELP IN GOD. They say, ‘I
                    see precious little difference in you religious folks. I have never known
                    anybody that religion has seemed to do much for.’ And, when they are told to
                    believe, they laugh at you, and I don't wonder at it. The poor human conscience
                    is better instructed than many of its teachers. It wants to be put
                        RIGHT, and it says, ‘Is there any hope? Can God save such as I
                    am? Has He saved anybody like me from this thraldom, from this slavery, from
                    this misery, from this constantly going down in the mud? Did He ever
                        save anybody LIKE ME?’ And sometimes he goes to
                    chapel or church, and hopes the minister will tell him, when lo, he begins a
                    dissertation about the resurrection, or the divinity of Christ, or something the
                    man has believed all his life, and so he is disappointed again, and he says,
                    ‘This is of no use to me.’ Oh! friends, I speak the things I know from testimony of scores of souls. In fact, I could
                    not repeat it, it would make your faces burn to hear what men of intelligence,
                    thought, and standing have said to me in many an ante-room where I have been
                    labouring. It is time there was a change. The world is famishing for lack of
                    real spiritual bread. It wants something to eat, and you give it a stone! but
                        God is raising a people who know what it wants and how to give
                        it, who know how to break the bread of life, and testify what God has
                    done for them, and what He can do for other poor famishing souls; who can go and
                    say: ‘Here, my friend, He can save such as you. I was such a one once. I was a
                    slave of sin, the slave of drink, or a blasphemer, or a liar, or a thief, or
                    addicted to some bad secret habit worse than any of these. I was such a slave,
                    and He has saved me. He has broken my fetters and set me free, and I am the
                    Lord's free-man. He has saved me and He can save you,’ That is what the world
                        wants—TESTIMONY WITNESSING.
                Has He saved any of you? Are you testifying to your poor, famishing, sinking
                    fellow-men? Do you ever look at them and think where they are going? Do you pity
                    them, love them, long after them in the bowels of Jesus Christ? Do you know
                    anything of that longing? If so, how can you forbear testifying? ‘Ye are My
                    witnesses of these things,’ everywhere, at all times, amongst all people!
                It is in the nature of the case that a witness must witness before other
                        people, before living hearers. That is the place to witness, and
                    before enemies, and when he does not know which way the wind will blow, or how
                    the words of God will be received. He must be
                    a true witness, even if he has to seal his testimony with his blood.
                This was the kind of witnessing the martyrs did. I often wonder whether there
                    would be any martyrs now. Sometimes I think that the greatest boon to the Church
                    of Christ would be a time of persecution. I believe it would. I believe it would
                    drive us up to God and each other. We should find out, then, whether we were
                    willing to forsake all to follow Him. You know that if the martyrs had taken the
                    standard of religious life that exists now, they would never have been martyrs.
                    They would have looked after their own skins, and left the Lord to look after
                    the Gospel. If they might have been allowed a little latitude, and gone halfway,
                    there would not have been any martyrs, because they could nearly all have got
                    off with that; but they felt it necessary to be faithful right through, and to
                    stand by the whole truth to the very last jot and tittle, and when they could
                    have got off by saying three words on a paper, they refused to do it, and vent
                    to the stake, and let the flames lick up their blood. Those are the witnesses
                    the Lord wants—outside, everywhere, always at it. Always witnessing. ‘Always?’
                    you say. Yes; always. Why? Because men are always dying and being
                        damned! If the Bible is true—everywhere—your friends and your
                    neighbours around you. You get a letter: ‘Oh! Mr. So-and-so is dead—only ill
                    three days—thirty-six hours—twenty-four hours—gone!’ Ah! and the echo in many a
                    soul afterwards is, ‘What would I give for a chance to go and have one talk with
                    him.’ But he's gone—somewhere! Where is he gone? If he were unwashed and unpardoned and unsaved—where is
                    he gone? I got so wrought up once upon this point that I thought I should have
                    lost my reason. I could not sleep at night with thinking of the state of those
                    who die unsaved. Dare I think about it? WHERE IS HE GONE? Oh! it was this
                        view of the case that led me to open my mouth first in public for
                        God.
                I have promised some friends here to-night to give this illustration from my own
                    experience, or else I rarely refer to it. I had long had a controversy on this
                    question in my soul. In fact, from the time I was converted, the Spirit of God
                    had constantly been urging me into paths of usefulness and labour, which seemed
                    to me impossible. Perhaps some of you would hardly credit that I was one of the
                    most timid and bashful disciples the Lord Jesus ever saved. For ten years of my
                    Christian life my life was one daily battle with the cross—not because I
                    wilfully rejected, as many do, for that I never dared to do. Oh, no! I used to
                    make up my mind I would, and resolve and intend, and then, when the hour came, I
                    used to fail for want of courage. I need not have failed. I now see how foolish
                    I was, and how wrong; but, for some four or five months before I commenced
                    speaking, the controversy had been signally roused in my soul which God had
                    awakened years before, but which, through mistaken notions, fear, and timidity,
                    I had allowed almost to die out. I was brought to very severe heart-searchings
                    at this time. I had not been realizing so much of the Divine presence. I had
                    lost a great deal of the power and happiness I once enjoyed. During a season of
                    sickness, one day it seemed as if the Lord revealed it all to me by His Spirit. I had no vision, but a
                    revelation to my mind. He seemed to take me back to the time when I was fifteen
                    and sixteen, when I first gave my heart to Him. He seemed to show me, all the
                    bitter way, how this one thing had been the fly in the pot of ointment, the
                    bitter in the cup, and prevented me from realizing what I should otherwise have
                    done. I felt how it had hindered the revelation of Himself to me, and hindered
                    me from growing in grace, and learning more of the deep things of God. He showed
                    it to me, and then I remember prostrating myself upon my face before Him, and I
                    promised Him there in the sick room: ‘Lord, if Thou wilt return unto me, as in
                    the days of old, and re-visit me with those urgings of Thy Spirit which I used
                    to have, I will obey, if I die in the attempt. I care not; I will obey.’
                    However, the Lord did not revisit me immediately. He let me recover, and I went
                    out again. About three months after that I went to the chapel of which my
                    husband was a minister, and he had an extraordinary service. Even then he was
                    ever trying something new to get the outside people. They were having a meeting
                    in which ministers and friends in the town were taking part, and all giving
                    their testimony and speaking for God. I was in the minister's pew, with my
                    eldest boy, then four years old, and there were some thousand people present. I
                    felt much more depressed than usual in spirit, and not expecting anything
                    particular, but, as the testimonies went on, I felt the Spirit come upon me. You
                    alone who have felt it know what it means. It cannot be described. I felt it to
                    the extremities of my fingers and toes. It seemed as if a voice said to me, ‘Now, if you were to go and testify, you
                    know I would bless it to your own soul as well as to the souls of the people,’
                    and I gasped again, and I said, in my soul, ‘Yes, Lord, I believe Thou wouldst,
                    but I cannot do it.’ I had forgotten my vow—it did not occur to me at all. All
                    in a moment, after I had said that to the Lord I seemed to see the bedroom where
                    I had lain, and to see myself as though I had been there prostrate before the
                    Lord promising Him that, and then the voice seemed to say to me, ‘Is this
                    consistent with that promise?’ and I almost jumped up and said, ‘No, Lord, it is
                    the old thing over again, but I cannot do it,’ and I felt as though I would
                    sooner die than do it. And then the Devil said, ‘Besides, you are not prepared
                    to speak. You will look like a fool, and have nothing to say.’ He made a
                    mistake. He overdid himself for once. It was that word settled it. I said, ‘Ah!
                    this is just the point. I have never yet been willing to be a fool for Christ,
                    now I will be one’; and without stopping another moment, I rose up in the seat,
                    and walked up the chapel. My dear husband was just going to conclude. He thought
                    something had happened to me, and so did the people. We had been there two
                    years, and they knew my timid, bashful nature. He stepped down to ask me, ‘What
                    is the matter, my dear.’ I said, ‘I want to say a word.‘ He was so taken by
                    surprise, he could only say, ‘My dear wife wants to say a word,’ and sat down.
                    He had been trying to persuade me to do it for ten years. He and a lady in the
                    church, only that very week, had been trying to persuade me to go and address a
                    little cottage meeting, of some twenty working people, but could not. I got up—God only knows how—and if any
                    mortal ever did hang on the arm of Omnipotence, I did. I felt as if I were
                    clinging to some human arm—and yet it was a Divine arm—to hold me. I just got up
                    and told the people how it came about. I confessed, as I think everybody should,
                    when they have been in the wrong and misrepresented the religion of Jesus
                    Christ. I told the people, although I had been occupying all the ordinary
                    positions of a minister's wife, though I was young then, I had been doing a
                    great deal more than many an elderly one does in the Church of God, in the way
                    of meeting believers, and visiting and working behind the scenes, so that they
                    had all been regarding me as a very devoted woman, and I told them so. I said,
                    ‘I dare say many of you have been looking upon me as a very devoted woman, and
                    one who has been living faithfully to God, but I have come to know that I have
                    been living in disobedience, and to that extent I have brought darkness and
                    leanness into my soul, but I promised the Lord three or four months ago, and I
                    dare not disobey. I have come to tell you this, and to promise the Lord that I
                    will be obedient to the Heavenly vision.’
                But oh! how little I saw then what it involved. I never imagined the life of
                    publicity it was going to lead me into, and of trial also; for I was never
                    allowed to have another quiet Sabbath, when I could speak or stand up. All I
                    took there was the present step. I did not see in advance, but the Lord, as He
                    always does, when His people are honest with Him, and obedient, opened the
                    windows of Heaven, and poured out such a blessing, that there was not room to
                    contain it.
                
                There was more weeping, they said, in the chapel that day, than ever there had
                    been before. Many dated a renewal in righteousness from that very moment, and
                    began a life of devotion and consecration to God.
                Now, I might have ‘talked good’ to them till now, and that would never have happened
                        
                        .
                     That honest confession, coming out and testifying the truth, did what
                    twenty years' talk would never have done.
                The work went on. Whenever I spoke, the chapel used to be crowded to its utmost
                    capacity, and numbers were converted. Not to me but to God be all the glory.
                    Shame to me that I did not begin sooner. It was not I that did this, but the
                    Holy Ghost, the Holy Spirit of God.
                The Lord dealt with me in a very wonderful way. Three months after this, my dear
                    husband fell sick for the first time, and he was obliged to go away into the
                    country. A deputation waited on me, to ask me to take his town appointments. I
                    said I could not think of such a thing. What could I do with that great
                    congregation? They must not ask me—and away they went. They came back again to
                    know if I would take the nights, they implored and importuned me until I
                    promised. So you see, God forced me to begin to think and work. I was obliged,
                    and I did it with four little children, the eldest then four years and three
                    months old. It looked an inopportune time, did it not, to begin to preach? It
                    looked as though the Lord must have made a mistake. However, He gave me grace
                    and strength, and enabled me to do it; and while I was nursing my baby, many a
                    time I was thinking of what I was going to say
                    next Sunday, and between times noted down with a pencil the thoughts as they
                    struck me. And then I would appear sometimes, with an outline scratched in
                    pencil, trusting in tho Lord to give me the power of His Holy Spirit; and I
                    think I can say that from that day—and it is about nineteen years and nine
                    months since—He has never allowed me to open my mouth without giving me signs of
                    His presence and blessing. Don't you see that while the Devil kept me silent, he
                    kept me comparatively fruitless; now I have ground to hope and expect to meet
                    hundreds in Glory, whom God has made me instrumental in saving. The Lord dealt
                    very tenderly with me: giving me great encouragement, but some things were
                    dreadful to me at first. I would not go into pulpits till the people demanded
                    it. And the first time I saw my name on a wall!—I shall never forget the
                    sensation. Then my dear husband said, ‘When you gave yourself to the Lord, did
                    you not give Him your name?’ Thus he used to go from one thing to another, until
                    now I have learned to glory in the Cross. When a dear friend was talking, the
                    other day about the tremendous undertaking it was to go to France and begin
                    there; I said, ‘My dear sir, I should not feel any more discomposed to go to
                    France, and open there next Sunday, than I should to appear in St. Andrew's
                    Hall, simply for this reason, that I believe God is the same in every place, and
                    the same faith, and the same truths and the same faithfulness will bring Him to
                    our help.’ ‘Ye are my witnesses,’ saith the Lord, ‘And, lo, I am with you
                        ALWAYS!’
                
                Will you be encouraged, my sister? Never mind trembling. I trembled. Never mind
                    your heart beating. Mine beat nearly through. Never mind how weak you are. I
                    have gone many a time from the bed to the pulpit, and back from the pulpit to
                    bed. It is not by human power, wisdom, might, or strength—it is by My Spirit,
                    saith the Lord. He loves to use the weak things, that the excellency may be seen
                    to be of God. If your neighbours were sick of some devastating plague, and you
                    could go and help them, would not you do it? Would you say, ‘I am only a woman,
                    and I cannot’? ‘Oh,’ you would say, ‘let me go, like Miss Nightingale did to the
                    sick and wounded soldiers. Let me go.’ And these are not the bodies, but the
                        souls. They are dying. They are going to an eternal death. Will
                    you not rise up? Oh! suppose all the Christians in this hall to-night were to
                    begin, from this hour, to be faithful, and consistently testifying everywhere
                    for Jesus, what a commotion there would be! How many, think you, would be
                    converted in a month's time? How would they begin flocking like doves to the
                    windows? How would the ministers, some of them, begin to wake up? The people
                    would go and beseech them morning, noon, and night. God wants you to witness
                    right out everywhere, in the darkest courts and alleys and in Oxford Street
                    alike. Begin, and the Spirit of God will fall upon you, and however they may try
                    to get rid of the Holy Ghost, they will not be able to do it when God has got
                    hold of them. We catch thousands of people in this way who never intended to be
                    converted. Every day I live, the more I am convinced that if God's people were to be in desperate earnest, thousands
                    would be won; but they are not likely to be won by the genteel fashion of
                    putting the truth before them—so common nowadays—because nobody thinks they are
                    in any danger! If you believe it, begin. The Apostle says you are
                    to be good, valiant soldiers of Jesus Christ: the old Christians were all this;
                    they fought a good warfare, and they overcame the Devil by the ‘Blood of the
                    Lamb and the word of their testimony.’ Be soldiers for the Lord,
                    and He will give the victory, and you shall go and take prisoners. Great big
                    giants, black-hearted infidels, black-hearted blasphemers, they shall go down
                    before you like little children, because the Lord of Hosts will put His Spirit
                    in you. ‘Ye are My witnesses.’ Witness! WITNESS! of Me everywhere
                    and always. The Lord help you. Amen.
            
            
                
                FILLED WITH THE SPIRIT
                
                FILLED WITH THE SPIRIT
                
                    ACTS i. 4.
                    —‘And being assembled together with them, commanded them that they should not
                        depart from Jerusalem, but wait for the promise of the Father.’
                
                
                    EPHESIANSANS v. 18.
                    —‘Be filled with the Spirit.’
                
                I THOUGHT, perhaps, it would meet a difficulty of some who are present
                    this afternoon, to state, with respect to last Sabbath's address, that this
                    exhortation to be filled with the Spirit is given broadly to all believers. If
                    my remarks, at that time, conveyed the idea to any one that there were merely a
                    privileged few who are called to be thus filled with the Spirit—to be, as it
                    were, the leaders of the rest, and others were to abide, and must abide, on a
                    lower platform of Christian experience, I certainly did not intend them to do
                    so. God forbid that I should insinuate anything of the kind, because I do not
                    believe it. I believe that this injunction is given broadly to all believers
                    everywhere, and in all times, and it is as much the privilege of the youngest
                    and weakest believer here to be filled with the Spirit, as it is of the most
                    advanced, if the believer will comply with the conditions, and conform to the
                    injunctions of the Saviour, on which He has promised this gift. I do not find
                    two standards of Christian experience here at all. I do not believe God ever
                    intended there should be a lower life and a
                    higher life, and I am afraid that those people who rest in the lower life will
                    find themselves awfully mistaken at last. I believe that religion is all or
                    nothing. God is either first or He is nowhere with us, individually. The very
                    essence and core of religion is, ‘God first,’ and allegiance and obedience to
                    Him first.
                If I cannot keep my father and mother and be faithful to God, then I must forsake
                    my father and mother. If I cannot keep my husband or wife, and be faithful to
                    Him, then I must forsake husband or wife. If I cannot keep my children and be
                    faithful to Him, then, Jesus Christ says, forsake them. And if I cannot keep my
                    houses and lands and be faithful to Him, then I must forsake them. If I cannot
                    keep my business and be faithful to Him, then I must sacrifice my business, and
                    if I cannot keep my health and be faithful to him, then I must sacrifice it;
                    and, last of all, if I cannot keep my life and be faithful to Him, then I must
                    be prepared to lose it, and lay my neck on the block, if need be. That is my
                    religion, and I do not know any other. I do not believe any other will stand on
                    the right hand of the throne; and, if that be so, why, all other sorts must
                    stand on the left. If this be not true, I am utterly and thoroughly mistaken in
                    the first principles of Christianity, and I will come and sit down at anybody's
                    feet who can convince me that I am wrong. So, pray, do not attach that idea to
                    me that I think that any person can sit down, providing he has light, or with
                    opportunities of getting light, without embracing this higher-life religion, and
                    then get into Heaven in this shame-faced, sneaking way. No, no!—God will have you, or He will not have
                    you. He will know you, or will say, ‘Depart from Me, I know you not.’ The Lord
                    help you every one.
                This Pentecost is offered to all believers. It comes, or it would come, in the
                    experience of every believer, if he would have it. God wants you to have it. God
                    calls you to it. Jesus Christ has bought it for you, and you may have it and
                    live in its power as much as these apostles did, if you will—every one of you.
                    My dear friends, you may have it, be filled with it, and no one but God knows
                    what He would do with you, and what He would make of you if you were thus
                    filled, for the experience of Peter shows you how utterly different a man is
                        before he gets a Pentecostal baptism and after he
                    gets it. The man who could not stand the questionings of a servant-maid before
                    he got this power, dared to be crucified after he got it. I may just say, that
                    here is the great cause of the decline of so many who begin well. Oh! there is
                    no more common lament on the lips of really spiritual teachers, everywhere, than
                    this, that so many begin well. ‘Ye did run well,’ we might truly say of
                    thousands in this land to-day, ‘Ye did run well.’ They begin in the Spirit, and
                    then, as the Apostle says, ‘They go on to be made perfect by the flesh.’ How is
                    this? Because, you see, the Spirit puts before every soul this walk of full
                    consecration and whole-hearted devotedness to God, and, instead of being
                    obedient to the heavenly vision, the soul shrinks back and says, ‘That is too
                    much—that is too close—that is too great a sacrifice,’ and they decline, and,
                    instead of giving up a profession and going
                    back into the world (there would be ten times more hope of them if they did
                    that), they cling on to the profession and kindle a fire of their own, and walk
                    in the sparks they have kindled. But He says He is against them, and ‘they shall
                    lie down in sorrow.’ Oh! there is a deal of this. People must have a God and a
                    religion. They will have one, and when they shrink from the true one, and will
                    not follow the Divine counsel, then they make one for themselves, and a great
                    many of them go to sleep and never wake again. They go out of the world
                    comfortably under the influence of narcotics, and they never wake. They die
                    deceived; or, if they do awake, we know what sort of an awakening it is, and
                    what sort of deathbed theirs is. Our poor Salvation Army people—these
                    ‘fishermen’—these young women—are sent for to pray with these people when they
                    get awakened. And Oh! what scenes are witnessed. Oh! see to it that you get
                    awake and keep awake, and be willing to follow the Spirit's teaching, in
                    everything, at all costs and sacrifices.
                I want you to note, first, how these people waited. ‘Tarry at Jerusalem till ye
                    be endued with POWER.’ Mark, that is not truth merely. They had got
                    truth before. There is something besides truth needed. Paul says his Gospel and
                    his preaching were not merely in word, but in power, and in the
                    demonstration of the Spirit. What would be the first thing that would strike you
                    that these disciples would be thinking of, as they wended their way back from
                    Olivet, having taken leave of their now glorified Master? Back again to the
                    upper room at 
                        Jeru-
                        Jerusalem
                     salem. Imagine what state of mind
                    would be theirs. How would they wait for the promise?
                Methinks the first feeling would be that of deep self-abasement. As
                    they thought of the past; now that the full glory of His Divinity, and the
                    Divinity of His mission, had burst upon them, and, as they thought of their
                    three years' sojourn with Him, and of all their darkness and blindness of heart,
                    and all they had lost—all that they might have known—all He would have revealed
                    to them, if they would have received it—as the thought of it all burst upon
                    them—just as, next day, when you find out who a person was, or some particular
                    circumstance respecting a person that you did not fully understand at the time,
                    and, when the person is gone, and it all breaks upon you, you say, ‘What a fool
                    I was,’ and so methinks these Apostles would say. Indeed, as He said, ‘O fools,
                    and slow of heart to believe!’ They were cured—Peter certainly was—of
                    self-sufficiency, of pride, and all of them would go back again in deep
                    self-abasement.
                Can you not think you see them, as they assembled in the upper room? I should not
                    be surprised at all if Peter, with his impulsive nature—and it is a glorious
                    thing to have an impulsive nature when it is impulsive for good—to be zealously
                    affected always in a good cause—threw himself on his face before his risen
                    Master in deepest humiliation and broken-heartedness for his base ingratitude in
                    having denied Him. And how do you think Thomas and all of them would feel as
                    they remembered the scene in the Garden, and how they all, in the hour of His
                    agony, forsook Him and fled? How would they
                    all feel? Oh! they would feel indeed unholy, untrue, cowards, and would go down,
                    over and over again, on their faces, to wait in deep self-abasement.
                And now, friends, this is the very first and indispensable condition of receiving
                    the Holy Ghost. You must first realize your past impurity, unholiness,
                    disobedience, and ingratitude. You must not be afraid to know the worst of
                    yourselves. You must look back at the time when your hand has been with Him on
                    the table, and yet you have virtually betrayed Him. You must look at your
                    unfaithfulness and disobedience, at your shrinking from the cross, at your
                    cleaving to the world, and if you want to be filled with the Spirit, you must be
                    willing to know the worst of yourself, and tell the Lord the worst of yourself.
                    You must say, ‘Now, Lord, am I low enough? Now, Lord, am I down far enough in
                    the dust for Thee to come and lift me up? I abhor myself. I loathe myself in
                    dust and ashes, and I want Thee to come and fill me with Thy Spirit.’ You will
                    have to be emptied of self. When people are self-sufficient, God always leaves
                    them alone to prove their self-sufficiency. When people think they can do for
                    themselves, He lets them fall down and see their weakness. We must realize our
                    utter helplessness and weakness—we must be utterly lost in our own sight. Some
                    of you, I think, have come to that, and others are not quite low enough. You
                    must get down lower, my brother. God's way to exaltation is through the Valley
                    of Humiliation. You must get lower—lower. You can never get too low in your own
                    estimation in order to be filled with the Spirit of God. They waited, secondly,
                    in earnest appreciation of its importance. Ah!
                    they had enough to make them do it. How do you think they felt when they got
                    into the upper room? We are told that there were about one hundred and twenty of
                    them. How do you think they felt as they thought of the past, remembered the
                    ignominious crucifixion of their Lord, looked forward to the future, and
                    contemplated the work to which He had called them? And what was it? It was not
                    to go and set up an idol of Jesus Christ alongside of other idols in the temples
                    of heathen gods, but it was to go into the city of Jerusalem, where they had
                    just crucified Him between two thieves, and proclaim Him as the long-expected
                    Messiah of the Jews. It was to begin to set up the Royal Spiritual Kingdom in
                    contradistinction to their temporal and earthly kingdom, and then to go out from
                    Jerusalem and subjugate the world to His sway! How would they feel? Poor Peter,
                    and Thomas, and John, and Mary and the rest of the women (thanks to the Holy
                    Ghost, He has taken care to put it in that they were there)—how would they feel?
                    They would feel, ‘We might as well stop and die here, as go out as we are, until
                    we do get the equipment of power. We want something more than we have got.’ And
                    there they waited, and they said, ‘Lord, pour it out upon us; we are ready. We
                    are helpless, we are powerless—we can do nothing. Thou knowest what Thou hast
                    called us to do, and Thou hast promised this power to perform it. Now, here we
                    are. It is useless for us to begin until we get power.’ They appreciated its
                    importance. God never gave this gift to any human soul who had not come to
                        the point that he would sell all he had to
                    get it. Oh! it is the most precious gift He has to give in earth or in Heaven—to
                    be filled with the Spirit, filled with Himself (as we said last Sunday), taken
                    possession of by God; moved, inspired, energized, empowered by God, by the great
                    indwelling Spirit moving through all our faculties, and energizing our whole
                    being for Him. That is the greatest and most glorious gift He has. He is not
                    likely to give it to people who do not highly appreciate it, and so highly that
                    they are willing to forgo all other gifts for it—everything else, creature love,
                    creature comfort, ease, enjoyment, and aggrandizement for this one thing. Have
                    you come to that? Are you telling the Lord so? Are you sincere? If you are
                    really sincere in what some of you write me, then some of you have come to it;
                    but, Oh, how people can deceive themselves! My heart has been awfully pained
                    during this last week with one or two instances of this kind that have come to
                    my notice. I have been half the week, I think, with Elijah under the juniper
                    tree. I have cried, ‘Lord, who hath believed our report?’ Who will thus take
                    hold of God for this special and full salvation? Alas! how few. One draws back
                    for one reason, and another for another. One feels how far they come with us.
                    You can hear the tread of their feet, and you can hear how they falter and draw
                    back. None but those who travail for souls can ever understand the agony of
                    feeling that souls are drawing back when you have brought them on the road so
                    far. I have thought many a time of the Saviour, when so many who had been
                    hearing Him forsook Him and fled. It was after
                    He had been trying to lead them higher, even to real spiritual union with
                    Himself.
                They were not willing to go all the way—to pay all the price—to suffer all the
                    consequences—but, if you want this blessing, I know no other way. I had to come
                    to this before I got it. The last idol of my soul had to be renounced, and it
                    was hard work, as it always is, because we love idols. Idols would
                    not be idols if they were not beloved. But we have to lay our real Isaac, our
                    beloved and only Isaac, upon the altar. It is hard work, but it has to be done,
                    because He is a jealous God, and will have no rivals. Do you so appreciate this
                    blessing that you are willing to give up your Isaac? If so, you may have it this
                    afternoon. He will fill you with His Spirit.
                Third, and lastly, they waited in obedient faith. How do we know?
                    Because they did as He bid them—that is the evidence. He said, ‘Go,
                    tarry in the city of Jerusalem.’ Peter might have said, when he had seen his
                    Lord off to Heaven, ‘Well, what am I going to do now? I have been a long time
                    running after the Lord in Palestine, I must betake myself to the fishing. I can
                    wait as well on the sea beach as in Jerusalem. I wonder why the Lord told me to
                    go to Jerusalem? I think it was rather unreasonable. He might have thought of my
                    old father and mother at home. I think I shall go back to my fishing-nets.’ No,
                    no, they had been cured of their unbelief by the last few days' experience. They
                    had learned better than to dictate to their Master, and they knew He had a good
                    purpose in sending them to Jerusalem, and so they went there and did as He bade
                    them—straight. Back to that upper room they went. Mary might have said, ‘I have been running about
                    ministering to the Saviour a long time, I'm afraid my friends will think I am
                    neglecting home duties and the claims of old friends. I really must go home and
                    see to matters a bit; I may as well wait there for the Holy Ghost as at
                    Jerusalem.’ No, Mary had learned better. She went back to Jerusalem. We have got
                    their names. And they entered into the upper room, and shut the door, and
                    waited-obedient faith! One of your poets said: 
                        
                            Obedient faith that waits on Thee,
                            Thou never wilt reprove.
                        
                    
                No, it is the disobedient faith that is sent empty away. Oh! people are crying
                    out about their faith, but it is their disobedient faith. If the Lord has told
                    you to wait in any particular place, or way, or company, or time, and you
                    disobey Him, you will never get it, and you will have to come to those
                    conditions at last, even if it is on your dying bed! Obedient faith! While there
                    is a spark of insubordination, or rebellion, or dictation, you will never get
                    it. Truly submissive and obedient souls only enter this kingdom.
                    Anywhere He tells you to go, anything He tells you to sacrifice, or fly from,
                    you will have to do. This is one of His choice gifts that He has reserved for
                    His choice servants, those who serve Him with all their
                    hearts.—Obedient faith!
                But you say, ‘How do you know it was faith?’ Oh, because we know they did as He
                    bade them. Now faith inserable from expectation. Where there is real faith there
                    is always expectation, and when I hear people praying, as I often do,
                        from
                    their throats, for the Holy Ghost, and see how they talk the minute
                    they get up from their knees, and know how they live and whom they associate
                    with, and how they spend their time, I say, ‘Yes, you may pray till your dying
                    day, but you will never get it.’ If they expected anything, they would wait for
                    it: common sense tells us that.
                Those people waited. How long? What a hue and cry there is now about us Salvation
                    Army people spending whole nights in prayer. People—Christians, grey-headed
                    Christians, up and down the country—say to me, ‘I don't know how you get the
                    time over. It must be such an immensely long time. Do you really mean to say
                    that you spend all night in prayer?’ I say, ‘Yes, with just an interval for
                    putting the truth and showing the people how to apply it to their own
                    consciences.’ Then they say, ‘It must seem an awfully long time.’ I suppose it
                    does, to them, to spend one whole night in prayer; but here, we are told, they
                    waited ten days, till the Day of Pentecost was fully come. I have no doubt they
                    went as far into the night as they could keep their natural powers awake. They
                    waited. They did not set the Lord a time. They were wiser. They did not say,
                    ‘Now we will go and have a couple of days of it. That will be a long time. We
                    will just shut out all else and wait on the Lord for a couple of days, and if He
                    does not come by that time, it will be outrageous to wait beyond it. Whoever
                    heard of a prayer meeting two days and two nights long?’ They did not set the
                    Lord a time! They went and waited till it came.
                You say, ‘No; I have not got it.’ No; because
                    you did not wait until it came. You got hungry, or you fell asleep, or hugged
                    your idol. You did not wait TILL IT CAME.
                Suppose they had given up on the fifth day and said, ‘There must be some mistake.
                    He knows we are here, all ready, and the world is perishing for our message.
                    There must be some mistake. We had better begin.’ But no, they waited on, and
                    on, and on, until it came. Can you imagine what sort of prayers went up from the
                    upper room? Do you think they were the lazy, lackadaisical prayers that we hear
                    every now and then for the Holy Spirit?
                Oh! how would Peter agonize and wrestle: how would Thomas plead; how would Mary
                    weep, beseech, and entreat, and how were they all of one heart and of one
                    accord. They wanted the one thing, and they were there to get it. They cared for
                    nothing else but that. They cried for it as hungry children cry for bread.
                        They wanted it. Did the Lord ever disappoint anybody who waited
                    like that? Can anybody say so here? Did you ever hear of such a case? Never.
                        HE CAME.
                Oh! but there are some people, nowadays, who set God times in everything. They
                    think a good deal more about their dinners than about Him. They think a great
                    deal more about intercourse with their friends and doing the polite to them,
                    than they do about the precious waiting Holy Spirit of God. They think a great
                    deal more about their businesses. ‘Oh!’ they say, ‘it is business, and business
                    must be attended to.’ But what about the Holy Ghost and the Kingdom? Must not
                    the Kingdom of God be attended to? Must not your soul be saved, and must you not become a temple of the indwelling
                    Spirit of God? Put a MUST in there, if you please. Far more
                    important is the soul than the body. Friends, are these things so, or am I only
                    imagining them? Are these great truths, or are they fables? These are the most
                    common-sense, simple exhibitions and illustrations of these truths that could
                    possibly be given. Was it not so? Did they not thus wait, and did not the Holy
                    Ghost come?—and when He came He sat upon each of them. Bless His
                    name.
                People have a wonderful habit of losing sight of the little words of the
                    Bible—the people who make a great to-do about the Word in other ways, often say
                    ‘I never saw that till you directed my attention to it.’ Suppose I were to say
                    that this afternoon something happened to each person, would you imagine I meant
                    the men, and not the women? Of course you would say, I meant every one. And it
                    filled them all—the women as well as the men, and they began to speak with other
                    tongues, as the Spirit gave them utterance. He came.
                And, my friends, He comes yet. My bodily senses have been quite cognizant of His
                    coming sometimes. We only know that we feel something that so influences our
                    bodies that we cannot describe it.
                In the North, when I was there, we had an all-night of prayer, at which one
                    thousand people, admitted by ticket, waited all night on God. The meeting began
                    at ten, and went on until six in the morning, and there were strong men, men in
                    middle life, and old men, lying on their faces on the floor. There were doctors
                    there, who examined them and tried to account for it from physical causes, but
                        they could not. It was the power of
                        God. The Holy Ghost does come, and because, in coming
                    thus into our souls, and thus filling us, He sometimes prostrates our bodies,
                    people rebel, as they did on this occasion, and reject the manifestation, and
                    say, ‘Excitement! fanaticism!’ What right have you to say that the Holy Spirit
                    coming into a human soul can operate upon that soul to the full extent without,
                    to some degree, prostrating the body? We know how people fall under great
                    emotions of anger, grief, and joy. Why? Because the influence of the mind has so
                    affected the body that the body cannot bear it, and when the Holy Spirit of God
                    comes into a human soul and opens its eyes, and quickens its perceptions, and
                    enlarges its capacity, and swells it with glory, is it an unlikely or improbable
                    thing that the body should sometimes be prostrated under His power? What did
                    Paul say?—‘I bear in my body the marks of the Lord Jesus,’ and I have been into
                    ‘the third heaven and heard unspeakable words which it is not lawful to utter.’
                    Do you think God intended such experiences and visions only for Paul and the
                    Apostles? Ah! there have been many since his day who have had such experiences,
                    and many more of God's people might have them, if they would, but
                    they are not willing to be wrapped in His arms; they are not willing to be
                    pressed to His bosom; they are not willing to know Him in the Scriptural sense;
                    they are not willing to be given up and consumed by His Spirit. Their heart and
                    flesh do not cry out after the living God, as David's did. They are not panting
                    after Him as the hart after the water-brooks. They are not longing to come and appear before God. If they were so longing
                    that they could not live without it, then God would come and be revealed to
                    them. Will you, then, wait in obedient faith?
                Oh! I have the most awful realization that you will be eternally better or worse
                    for these services, and so I want you to come up higher, I don't want you to go
                    back, and get cold and indifferent to these things, because here is the hope of
                    the world, if there is any hope for it, in people getting filled with the
                    Spirit, people getting so woke up to God and His glory, and the interests of His
                    kingdom, that they should be just as anxious for souls as other people are for
                    sovereigns. Filled with the Spirit, having eyes to see spiritual sights which
                    others do not see, ears to hear the crying of the famishing multitudes who are
                    dying for lack of knowledge; hearts to feel so that they could go and weep over
                    them. Hands to break the bread of life; and, if need be, a zeal that will lead
                    them to die for them. This is what we want, and it only comes with the fullness
                    of the Spirit.
                Are you willing, my brother? are you willing, my sister? If so, stop with us this
                    afternoon. Never mind the dinner; never mind the tea. You have taken care of the
                    outer man long enough, now look after the inner man. Never mind the children,
                    mother, just now, the Lord will take care of them. Never mind anything, you who
                    are athirst, but getting this blessed Holy Spirit of God, this full baptism of
                    it on your souls. The Lord help you. Amen!
            
            
                
                THE WORLD'S NEED
                
                THE WORLD'S NEED
                
                    MATTHEW xxi. 28.
                    —‘Son, go work to-day in My vineyard.’
                
                
                    LUKE xiv. 23.
                    —‘And the lord said unto the servant, Go out into the highways and hedges and
                        compel them to come in, that My house may be filled.’
                
                WE might have enumerated other texts, teaching the same truths. There
                    are plenty of them, but the general tenor and bearing of the Word of God,
                    especially of the New Testament, is more significant than even direct and
                    isolated texts. It seems to me that no one can disinterestedly and
                    dispassionately study the New Testament without arriving at the conclusion that
                    it is a fundamental principle, underlying the whole, that His light and grace is
                    expansive; that is, God has in no case given His light, His truth, and His grace
                    to any individual soul, without holding that soul responsible for communicating
                    that light and grace to others. Real Christianity is, in its very nature and
                    essence, aggressive. We get this principle fully exhibited and illustrated in
                    the Parables of Jesus Christ. If you will study them, you will find that He has
                    not given us anything to be used merely for ourselves, but that we hold and
                    possess every talent which He has committed to us for the good of others, and
                    for the Salvation of man. If I understand it, I say this is a fundamenal
                    principle of the New Testament.
                How wonderfully this principle was exhibited in
                    the lives of the Apostles and early Christians! How utterly careless they seemed
                    to be of everything compared with this—this was the first thing with them
                    everywhere! How Paul, at the very threshold, counted nothing else of any
                    consequence, but willingly, cheerfully gave up every other consideration to live
                    for this; and how he speaks of other Apostles and helpers in the Gospel who had
                    been nigh unto death, and laid down their necks for the work's sake; and we know
                    how he travelled, worked, prayed, wept, and suffered, bled and died, for this
                    one end. And so with the early Christians, who were scattered through the
                    persecutions, how they went everywhere preaching the Word; how earnest and
                    zealous they were, even after the Apostolic age, we learn from ecclesiastical
                    history—how they would push themselves in everywhere; how they made converts,
                    and won real, self-denying followers even in kings' courts; how they would not
                    be kept out, and could not be put down, and could not be hindered or silenced.
                    ‘These Christians are everywhere,’ said one of their bitterest persecutors. Yes,
                    they were instant in season and out of season; they won men and women on every
                    hand, to the vexation and annoyance of those who hated them. Like their Master,
                    they could not be hid; they could not be repressed; so aggressive, so
                    constraining, was the spirit which inspired and urged them on.
                It becomes a greater puzzle every day to me, coming in contact with individual
                    souls, how people read their Bibles! They do not seem to understand what they
                    read. Well might a Philip or an angel come to them and say, ‘Understandest thou
                        what thou readest?’ Oh! friends, study
                    your New Testament on this question, and you will be alarmed to find to what an
                    awful extent you are your brother's keeper—to what an awful and alarming extent
                    God holds you responsible for the Salvation of those around you.
                I want to glance, FIRST, at our call to work for God; and,
                        SECONDLY, at two or three indispensable qualifications for
                        successful labour.
                And, first, as I have just said, we are called by the Word not only in
                    these direct passages, but by the underlying principle running
                    through it all, and laying upon us the obligation to save men. In
                    fact, the world is cast upon us: we are the only people who CAN save the
                        unconverted.
                Oh! I wish I could get this thought thoroughly into your minds. It has been,
                    perhaps, one of the most potent, with respect to any little service I have
                    rendered in the vineyard—the thought, that Jesus Christ has nobody else to
                    represent Him here but us Christians—His real people: nobody else to work for
                    Him. These poor people of the world, who are in darkness and ignorance, have
                    nobody else to show them the way of mercy. If we do not go to them with loving
                    earnestness and determination to rescue them from the grasp of the great enemy;
                    if we do not, by the power of the Holy Ghost, bind the strong man and take his
                    goods, who is to do it? God has devolved it upon us. I say this is an alarming
                    and awful consideration.
                Secondly, we are called by the Spirit. The very first aspiration, as
                    I said the other night, of a newly-born soul is after some other soul. The very
                        first utterance, after the first burst of
                    praise to God for deliverance from the bondage of sin and death, is a prayer
                    gasped to the throne for some other soul still in darkness. And is not this the
                    legitimate fruit of the Spirit? Is not this what we should expect? I take any
                    one here, who has been truly saved, to record if the first gushings of his soul,
                    after his own deliverance, was not for somebody else—father, mother, child,
                    brother, sister, friend? Oh! yes, some of you could not go to sleep until you
                    had written to a distant relative, and poured out your soul in anxious longings
                    for his Salvation; you could not take your necessary food until you had spoken
                    or written to somebody in whose soul you were deeply interested. The Spirit
                    began at once to urge you to seek for souls; and so it is frequently the last
                    cry of the Spirit in the believer's soul before it leaves the body. You have sat
                    beside many a dying saint, and what has been the last prayer? Has it been
                    anything about self, money, family, circumstances? Oh! those things are now all
                    left behind, and the last expressed anxiety has been for some prodigal soul
                    outside the kingdom of God. When the light of eternity comes streaming upon the
                    soul, and its eyes get wide open to the value of souls, it neither hears nor
                    sees anything else! It goes out of time into eternity, praying as the Redeemer
                    did, for the souls it is leaving behind. This is the first and last utterance of
                    the Spirit in the believer's soul on earth; and oh! if Christians were only true
                    to the promptings of this blessed Spirit, it would be the prevailing impulse,
                    the first desire and effort all the way through life. It is not God's fault that
                    it is not so. In personal dealing with souls
                    there is no point comes out more frequently than this: nothing which those who
                    have really been converted and have become backsliders in heart more frequently
                    confess and bemoan than their unfaithfulness to the monitions of the Spirit with
                    respect to other souls. In fact, backsliding begins here in thousands of
                    instances. Satan gets people to yield to considerations of ease, propriety,
                    being out of season, being injudicious, and so on; and they lose opportunities
                    of dealing with souls, and so the Spirit is grieved and grieved. Oh! what
                    numbers of people have confessed this to me.
                A gentleman, in advanced life, said: ‘When I was a young man, and in my first
                    love, the zeal of the Lord's house so consumed me that I used to neglect my
                    daily business, and could scarcely sleep at night; but, alas! that was many
                    years ago.’ ‘Was it not better with you then than
                    now?’ I asked; and the tears came welling up into his eyes. Oh,
                    yes! the Lord says of him, ‘I remember thee, the kindness of thy youth, the love
                    of thine espousals, when thou wentest after Me in the wilderness, in a land that
                    was not sown; Israel was holiness unto the Lord, and the first-fruits of His
                    increase.’ And, alas! there are many such to-day. They have it all to do over
                    again; they have to repent and do their first works; they have to come back and
                    get forgiven, and washed, and saved, if they are to go into the kingdom on high,
                    all for want of systematically and resolutely obeying the urgings of the Holy
                    Spirit towards their fellow-men.
                Now, you have, some of you, been hearing, the last few Sundays, about grieving
                    the Spirit, and about being filled with the
                    Spirit; and some of you are puzzled as to how you ought to wait—whether you
                    ought to go on with your lawful avocations and wait. I say: My friends, I could
                    quite justify the position I took up last Sunday, but I will not stop, for I do
                    not care about circumstantials; but mind, this is the great
                    point—you must so wait, wherever it may be—so plead, and wrestle, and
                        believe—SO THAT YOU GET IT. Then I care not whether it be in
                    Jerusalem, in the Upper Room, or anywhere else—only, get it. Don't
                    let us lose the substance in quibbling about the way. Wait in that way congenial
                    to your present circumstances; but, Oh! wait for it until you get it, for this
                    is the life of your souls, and the life of many souls, perchance, besides yours.
                    You want this spirit—the spirit that yearns over the souls of your
                    fellow-men; to weep over them as you look at them in their sin, and folly, and
                    misery; the spirit that cannot be satisfied with your own enjoyments or with
                    feeling that you are safe, or even that your children are safe; but
                    that yearns over every living soul while there is one left unsaved, and can
                    never rest satisfied until it is brought into the kingdom.
                Such are the urgings of the Spirit; and if people would only be obedient to them,
                    they would never lose these urgings. Why, what an anomaly it is! Does it look
                    reasonable, or like God's dealings, that people should begin so strong, like the
                    old man felt when he was young, and, instead of waving stronger, and having this
                    holy zeal and desire increased, get weaker and weaker, and less and
                    less? Does it look like God's way of doing things? Oh, no! This eclipse is through grieving and quenching the
                    Spirit.
                Now, my friend, you are called by the Spirit to this work. Obey the call—DO
                        IT. Never mind if it chokes you—do it. Say, ‘I had better die in
                    obedience than live in disobedience.’ Oh! these everlasting likes and dislikes.
                    ‘I don't like to speak to that person,’ ‘I so dislike writing that letter.’ ‘Oh!
                    you don't know what might be the consequences.’ Never mind the consequences—do
                    it. God will stand between you and consequences; and, if He lets you suffer,
                    never mind—then suffer; but obey the voice of the Spirit. There would have been
                    thousands of souls saved if all those who have had these urgings had obeyed
                    them. Pray, where do these urgings come from? Do they come from your own evil
                    hearts? Then you are better than the Apostle. Separated from the Spirit that
                    dwells in you, and disunited from Christ, your living Head, you are selfish,
                        devilish. Then where do these urgings come from? Do they come
                    from the Devil? Satan, then, would indeed be divided against himself. Where do
                    they come from? It is the Spirit of the living God that is urging you to come
                    out and seek to save the lost. Will you obey these urgings? Will you give up
                    your reasonings? Will you give up your likes and dislikes, and
                    OBEY? If you will, then He will come to you more and more, till,
                    like David, you will feel the interests of His kingdom to be more to you than
                    meat or drink, than silver or gold. Nay, you will become like him who said, ‘The
                    zeal of Thine house hath eaten me up.’
                But, further, we are called to this work by what
                    He has done for us. And what is that? Oh! you say, I cannot tell.
                    No, no; we shall have to get home first, and then we shall never be
                    able to tell. We shall never be able to cast up that sum, not even
                    for the gratification of the angels. That will remain an unexplored quantity for
                    ever, what He has done for us! We shall have to find out what it would have been
                    to have been lost! and what it is to be saved in all its fullness and eternity,
                    before we can tell what He has done for us!
                What has He done for us? Oh! if we had a tithe of the love to sinners that He had
                    for us, of His forbearing patience, of His persevering effort, when He followed
                    us day and night, reasoned and reasoned with us, wooed and allured us, what
                    could we not do?
                I remember reading, somewhere, the story of a nobleman who was (I think) a
                    backslider. He was stopping at some country inn, and he went up into a room in
                    which, over the mantelpiece, there was a very good picture of the Crucifixion by
                    a good old master, and under it was written, ‘I suffered this for thee—what hast
                    thou done for Me?’ This question went home. It struck deep. He thought—Yes, what
                    indeed? He went out into the stables to his horses, to try to get rid of the
                    uncomfortable impression, but he could not forget it. A soft, pathetic voice
                    seemed to follow him—‘I suffered this for thee—what hast thou done for Me!’ At
                    last it broke him down, and he went to his knees. He said: ‘True, Lord, I have
                    never done anything for Thee, but now I give myself and my all to Thee, to be
                    used up in Thy service.’
                And have you never heard that voice in your soul, as you have been kneeling at the Cross? Did you ever gaze upon that
                    illustrious sufferer, and hear His voice, as you looked back into the paltry
                    past? ‘What hast thou done for Me?’
                Now, there have been, at the least, something like three hundred and fifty
                    people, who have come forward, so far, in these services, professing to give
                    themselves afresh and fully to Jesus. I am sure, in the main, they have been
                    sincere. They have come for the witness of the Spirit to their adoption, and for
                    power for service. Now, friends, I want to know what this is to come to—what is
                    to be the end of it? 
                        
                            What are you going to do, brother?
                            What are you going to do?
                        
                     And sister, too. Is it going to die out in sentiment? Is it going to
                    evaporate in sighs and wishings, and end in ‘I CANNOT’? God forbid!
                    What are you GOING TO DO? What HAVE you been doing for
                    Him the last week? Ask yourselves. You say—‘Well, I have read my Bible more.’
                    Very good, so far as it goes. What have you read it for? ‘Well,’ you say, ‘to
                    get to know the Lord's will, and to get instruction and comfort.’ Aye, exactly,
                    but that is all for yourself, you see. ‘I have prayed a great
                    deal.’ Very good. I wish everybody would pray. The Apostles say all men
                    everywhere ought to pray. What for? ‘I have been asking the Lord for great
                    things.’ Very good, praise the Lord; but those are for yourself, mainly. If you
                    have been led out in agonizing supplication for souls, thank God for it, and go
                    on, as the Apostle says, ‘watching thereunto, with all perseverance,’ ‘praying
                    in the Holy Ghost’; but if it has been merely praying to get all you can for yourself, what profit is that to the
                    Lord? But you say—‘I am bringing up my family.’ Exactly; so are the worldly
                    people around you, but what for? For God or for yourself? Oh, let us look at
                    these things, friends. I am afraid a great deal of the religion is a mere
                    transition of the selfishness of the human heart from the world to religion. I
                    am afraid a great deal of the religion of this day ends in getting all you can
                    and doing as little as you can—like some of your servants. You know the sort,
                    who will do no more than they are forced—just get through, because they are
                    hired. There is a great deal of that kind of service in these days, both towards
                    man and towards God.
                Now, friends, what have you been doing for HIM—for the promotion of
                        His blessed, glorious, saving purposes in the world? What have
                    you been denying yourself for the sake of His kingdom? What labour have you gone
                    through of mind, or brain, or heart? How many letters have you written? How many
                    people have you spoken to? How many visits have you made? What self-denying
                    labour have you been doing for Him who has done (as you say) so much for you?
                    What have you been suffering for Him? Have you been trying in some measure to
                    fill up behind the measure of His sufferings ‘for His body's sake, the church?’
                    Have you been carrying the sins and sorrows of a guilty world on your heart
                    before God, and pleading with Him for His own name's sake, to pour out His
                    Spirit upon the ungodly multitudes outside, and to quicken half-asleep
                    professors inside? Have you been subjecting yourself to reproach and
                    contempt—not only from the world, but from
                    half-hearted professors and Pharisees, bearing the Cross, enduring the shame of
                    unkind reproaches in living and striving to save them? Oh, what have you been
                    doing, brother and sister?
                Come, now, friends, I want a practical result. He suffered that for you. He is up
                    yonder, interceding for you. Five bleeding wounds He always bears in the
                    presence of His Father for you. If He were to forget you for a single moment, or
                    cease His intercession, what would happen? What are you doing for Him? He has
                    left you an example that you should follow His steps. What were they? They were
                    blood-tracked; they were humiliated steps. They were steps scorned by the world.
                    He was ignored, and traduced, and rejected of men. He had not where to lay His
                    head. He carried in His body and in His soul the sorrows and sufferings of all
                    our race. He was a man of sorrows—not His own. He had no reason to be sorrowful.
                    He was the Father's own beloved, and He knew it, but He was a man of sorrows,
                    and acquainted with grief. The griefs of this poor, lost, half-damned world He
                    bore, and they were sometimes so intolerable that they squeezed the blood out of
                    His veins. Have you been following in His footsteps, in any measure? He lived
                    not for Himself. He came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and took
                    upon Him the form of a servant. What are you doing? Oh! my friends, up, up, and
                    be doing. Begin, if you have not begun—begin to-day. Ask Him to baptize you with
                    His Spirit, and let you begin at once to follow Him in the regeneration of the
                    Spirit. You are called by what He did for you!
                
                Then, you are called by the wants of the world. I have said so much about this at
                    other times that I will not say more now, only methinks it is a theme that is
                    never exhausted, and never will be while there are any more sinners to save. Oh!
                    the wants of the world! To me it is an overwhelming, a prodigious thought, that
                    He shed His Blood for every soul of man, and that, as He hung there, He saw,
                    under all the vileness, and sin, and ruin of the Fall—the human soul created
                    originally in His own image, and capable of infinite and eternal development and
                    progress. The soul to be rescued, washed, redeemed, saved, sanctified, and
                    glorified—He saw this glorious jewel, and He gave HIMSELF for it.
                    Look at these souls. There is not one of them so mean, or vile, or base, but can
                    be rescued by the power of His Spirit, and by His living, glorious Gospel
                    brought to bear upon them. The Saviour, quoting from the Prophets, says, ‘Ye are
                    gods’ (and adds), ‘the Scriptures cannot be broken.’ He had no such little,
                    mean, insignificant estimate of the worth of human souls, as some people have
                    nowadays, who consign whole generations to Hell without any bowels of mercy or
                    compassion. Oh! the Lord fill us with the pity of Jesus Christ, who, when He saw
                    the multitudes, wept over them.
                O friends, think of one such soul! What is your gold, or houses, or lands—what
                    your respectability, what your reputation, what all the prizes of this world? We
                    talk about it, but who realizes it—who, WHO?—the value of one
                    precious, immortal soul saved, redeemed, sanctified? Oh, the wants of the world!
                    They are dying, THEY ARE DYING! When people come to me with their fastidious objections, I
                    say—‘My friends, all I know is—souls are dying, dying.’
                If your homes were being decimated by the cholera, you would not be very
                    particular about the means you used to stay it, and if anybody came with
                    objections to the roughness of your measures, you would say, ‘the people are
                    dying, they are dying,’ and that would be the end of all argument. I say, they
                    are dying, and they ARE to be saved. Satan is getting them: I want
                    God to have them. Jesus Christ has bought them. He was the propitiation for the
                    sins of the whole world. They belong to Him, and He shall have every one I can
                    reach, and every one I can inspire others to reach also.
                The world is dying. Do you believe it? You are called by the wants of the world.
                    Begin nearest home if you like, by all means, I have little faith in those
                    people's ministrations who go abroad after others, while their own are perishing
                    at their firesides. Begin at home, but do not end there. ‘Oh! yes,’ people say,
                    ‘begin at home,’ but they end there; you never hear of them anywhere else, and
                    it comes to very little what they do at home, after all. God has ordained that
                    the two shall go together. Get them saved by all means, but get somebody else
                    saved as well. Set yourself to work for God. Go to Him to ask Him how to do it.
                    Go to Him for the equipment of power and then begin. Never mind how you tremble.
                    I dare say your trembling will do more good than if you were ever so brave.
                    Never mind the tears. I wish Christians would weep the Gospel into
                    people; it would often go deeper than it does.
                    Never mind if you do stammer. They will believe you when it comes from the
                    heart. They will say, ‘He talked to me quite natural,’ as a man said, some time
                    ago—wondering that he should be talked to about religion in a natural way; but
                    mind, no mock feeling, for they will detect it in a minute. Go to the closet
                    until you get filled with the Spirit, and then go and let it out upon them.
                    Finney says ‘I went and let my heart out on the people.’ Get your heart full of
                    the living water and then open the gates and let it flow out. Look them in the
                    face and take hold of them lovingly by the hand and say, ‘My friend, you are
                    dying, you are going to everlasting death. If nobody has ever told you till
                    now—I have come to tell you. My friend, you have a precious soul. Is it saved?’
                    They can understand that! not beginning in a roundabout way, but talking to them
                    straight: ‘Do you ever think about your precious soul? Is it saved? Are your
                    sins pardoned? Are you ready to die?’ Your rich neighbours and your
                    servant-girls and your stable-men alike, can understand that.
                A lady said to my daughter, ‘I have begun talking to people about their souls in
                    quite a different way to what I used. I begin asking them if they do not know
                    they are sinners and if ready to die, and it produces quite a different effect.’
                    For one reason she has her own heart full of the Love and Spirit of God, and
                    that burns her words in. Begin in that way and see what God will do through you,
                    for, of course, I only recognize you as the instrumentality which He has chosen,
                    and those who reflect upon the instrumentality reflect upon His wisdom. You go
                        and put your hand to the plough and He
                    will give you strength to push it along.
                The Lord help you to go home thinking about the wants of the world, and next
                    Sabbath we will consider the qualifications for labour.
            
            
                
                THE HOLY GHOST
                
                THE HOLY GHOST
                
                    LUKE xxiv. 49.
                    —‘And, behold, I send the promise of My Father upon you: but tarry ye in the
                        city of Jerusalem, until ye be endued with power from on high.’
                
                
                    ACTS i. 8.
                    —‘But ye shall receive power, after that the Holy Ghost is come upon
                        you.’
                
                FRIENDS who were present at former services will remember our line of
                    thought, without my stopping to recapitulate. My chief reason for taking up this
                    subject again, after having preached four sermons on it, is to meet the
                    difficulties of some whom I believe to be anxious and honest inquirers. Taking
                    those who have written and spoken to me as representatives of a class, it
                    occurred to me that there might be many others in a similar state of mind, and
                    it is a great joy to me if the Lord uses me to meet real difficulties, and to
                    help those who are exercised by them into a higher state of grace, and a more
                    thorough and complete devotion to the Lord. This is my end—God is my witness—in
                    every service.
                Now, I do not want to make any reflections, and will not do so any further than I
                    can help; but in dealing with such a subject we cannot avoid this, to a certain
                    extent, as I have said before; if the truth reveals error, and if trying to get
                    into a better track necessarily in some measure reflects on the old track—we
                    cannot help it, and we must not eschew the former for the latter. It must be
                    manifest, I think, to every spiritual and
                    thoughtful Christian that there is a great want somewhere in connexion with the
                    preaching of the Gospel, and the instrumentalities of the church at large. That
                    there are many blessed exceptions I joyfully and gladly admit. No one hails them
                    with greater gladness than I do. That there are blessed green spots here and
                    there in the wilderness is quite true, and when these are gathered together and
                    descanted on in articles, they look very nice, and we are apt to take the
                    flattering unction to our souls that things are not so bad after all; but, when
                    we come to travel the country over and find how few and far between these green
                    spots are, and hear what a tide of lamentation and mourning reaches us all round
                    the land as to the deadness, coldness, and dearth of Christian churches, we
                    cannot help feeling that there is a GREAT WANT SOMEWHERE! This is
                    not only my opinion, but it is almost universally admitted, that, with the
                    enormous expenditure of means, the great amount of human effort, the
                    multiplication of instrumentalities during the past century, there has not been
                    a corresponding result.
                People say to me, on every hand, we have meetings without number, services,
                    societies, conventions, conferences, but what comes of them all,
                        comparatively? And I may just say here that numbers of
                    ministers and clergymen, in private conversation, admit the same thing. In fact,
                    none are more ready to admit this comparative lack of results than many dear
                    spiritual ministers. They say, when talking with us behind the scenes—‘Yes, it
                    is a sad fact. I think I preach the truth. I pray about it. I am anxious for results, but, alas! alas! the conversions
                    are but few and far between.’ And then, not only are those conversions few, but
                    in the mass of instances superficial—we should expect from such a putting of the
                    truth as that we have been reading about, numerous and continual turnings to the
                    Lord as in those days—we should expect men coming out openly from sin and from
                    God-dishonouring courses, businesses, and professions—coming out from
                    fashionable and worldly circles, abjuring the world, and literally and
                    absolutely following the Christ as in those days. That is what we have a right
                    to expect, and yet how comparatively rare they are, so that when people do this,
                    there is quite a commotion, and it is talked about all over the land. Now I say
                    this is universally admitted, and it behoves us to ask before God and with an
                    earnest heart-yearning, desiring to improve this state of things, Where is
                        the lack, what is the want?
                Now note, secondly, this want is not the truth. Oh! what a great deal of talk we
                    have about the truth, and not any too much. I would not yield to any man or
                    woman in this audience in my love for this Bible. I love this Word and regard it
                    as the standard of all faith and practice, and our guide to live by; but it is
                    not enough of itself. The great want is not the truth, for you see
                    facts would contradict this theory. If it were the truth, then there would be no
                    lack at this day, compared with other times, because we never had so much of the
                    truth. There never was so much preaching of the truth, or such a wide
                    dissemination of the Word of God, yet, comparatively, where are the results?
                
                Further, not only as to quantity, but as to quality am
                    I discouraged. Not only are there comparatively few conversions, but a great
                    many of these are of a questionable kind. We should not only ask—are people
                    converted, but what are they converted to? What SORT OF SAINTS ARE
                        THEY? Because, I contend, you had far better let a man alone in sin
                    than give him a sham conversion, and make him believe he is a Christian when he
                    is nothing of the kind. So you see we must look after the quality as well as the
                    quantity, and I fear, we have an awful amount of spurious production, and it
                    behoves us—and I will, for one, if I were to be crucified for it to-morrow—be
                    true to what the Spirit of God has taught me on this point, I will never pander
                    to things as they are for fear of the persecution which follows trying to put
                    them right. God forbid!
                Then, I say, the lack is not truth. There will be thousands of
                    sermons preached to-day—the truth and nothing but the truth. Nobody will pretend
                    to say they were not in perfect keeping with the Word of God; and yet they will
                    be perfect failures, and nobody will know it better than they who preach them!
                        These are facts.
                I was talking, on this point, a while ago, with a good man, who said, ‘Ah! yes, I
                    have not seen a conversion in my church for these two years.’ Now, what was the
                    reason? There was a reason, and I am afraid many might say the
                    same. Yet there are the unconverted. They come to be operated upon. Take a
                    church where there is a congregation of, say, eight hundred or one thousand,
                    suppose with a membership of two hundred or three hundred. What becomes of the five hundred or seven hundred
                    unbelievers, who come and go, Sunday after Sunday, like a door on its hinges,
                    neither the better nor worse?—nay, God grant it might be so, but they are worse.
                    They get enough light to light them down to damnation, but they do not get
                    enough power to lift them into Salvation. What IS THE MATTER? There
                    must be something wrong. Will you account for it? It ought to be accounted for!
                    It ought not so to be. God is not changed. Surely He is as anxious for the
                    Salvation of men now as He ever was. Human hearts are not changed; they are
                    neither better nor worse; they are depraved, vile, devilish—just the same. The
                    Gospel is exactly the same power it ever was, rightly experienced, lived, and
                    preached. It is still the power of God unto Salvation. Then what is the matter?
                    The truth is preached. The people hear it, and yet they remain as they were.
                    Where is the lack?
                Now, I say, and I most unhesitatingly assert, that the great want is
                        POWER—this power of which we have been reading.
                And I want to remark, thirdly, that this power is as distinct, and
                        deftnite, and separate, a gift of God, as was this Book, as was the Son, or
                        any other gift which He has given us.
                It is distinctly recognized, not only in our texts, but, as we read to you again
                    and again, as a distinct and definite gift accompanying the efforts of those who
                    live on the conditions on which God can give it to them. We cannot explain this
                    gift, but it is the power of the Holy Spirit of God in the soul of the speaker
                    accompanying His word, making it cut and
                    pierce to the dividing asunder soul and spirit. ‘You shall receive
                        power after that the Holy Ghost is come upon you.’ ‘Until you
                    be endued with’—not the truth, not faith (they had faith before that),
                    but-‘power’; and, as He says in another place, ‘I will give you a mouth and
                    wisdom, which all your adversaries shall not be able to gainsay nor resist.’
                    Though they may stone you, as they did Stephen, they shall be cut to the heart,
                    and made to feel the power of your testimony.
                Now, I find people who go to work, which is all right, because the power comes to
                    us in obedient faith; but they go trusting in their own efforts. They are
                    without this endowment of power, and they see no result. The work is a
                    comparative failure. Oh! what numbers of people have come to me who have been at
                    work in different directions, in churches, as ministers, elders, deacons,
                    leaders, Sabbath-school teachers, tract distributors, and the like, confessing
                    that they had been working for more or less lengthened periods, and had seen
                    comparatively little result. They say, ‘Do you think this is right? Do you think
                    I ought to go on?’ Go on, assuredly, but not in the same track. Go on, most
                    decidedly, but seek a fresh inspiration. There is something wrong, or you would
                    have seen some fruit of your labour—not all the fruit. God does not give to any
                    of us to see it all; but we do see enough to assure us that the Holy Ghost is
                    accompanying our testimony. God's people have always done that when they have
                    worked in conformity with the conditions on which the power can be given.
                Now, this is how I account for the want of results —the want of the direct, pungent, enlightening,
                    convicting, restoring, transforming power of the Holy Ghost; and I care not how
                    gigantic the intellect of the agent, or how equipped from the school of human
                    learning, I would rather have a Hallelujah Lass, a little child, with the power
                    of the Holy Ghost, hardly able to put two sentences of the Queen's English
                    together, to come to help, bless, and benefit my soul, than I would have the
                    most learned divine in the kingdom without it, for it is ‘not by might, nor by
                    power, but by My Spirit.’ Oh! that you would learn it. When you have learnt
                    that, you will be made: when you experience it, you
                    will lay hold on God. It is not by might, any kind of might—might or intellect,
                    or learning, or eloquence, or position, or influence; it is not by might, nor by
                    power—man's power—of any sort, but by My Spirit. That is as true as it ever was.
                        HERE IS THE SECRET OF THE CHURCH'S FAILURE! She is like Israel
                    of old. She hath multiplied her defenced cities and her palaces, but she hath
                    forgotten the God of Israel, in whom her strength is. If you will read the
                    history of the church from the beginning you will find that true which I say,
                    that just to the degree that the church has increased in the material she has
                    decreased in the spiritual. I do not say it ought to be so; I do not say that is
                    a necessity. I only give you a significant fact that it has been
                        so.
                You say—‘How do you account for it?’ I account for it because we poor, wretched,
                    tiny, helpless creatures, although we cannot get anything good in the creature,
                    yet put some TRUST in it. But when God teaches us that we have
                    nothing to trust in, when He makes us realize
                    our own nothingness and utter helplesness, and gives us hold of Him with the
                    grasp of despair, then we will begin to be of some use—and never till
                        them. It is God worketh in us and by us. The Apostle labours all the
                    way through to show and convince everybody that it was God in him and not of
                    himself at all. Though he could have preached with enticing words of man's
                    wisdom, and, no doubt, had many a temptation to do it, as everybody has who has
                    dipped into the flowery paths of human rhetoric and learning, yet he eschewed
                    this as he would the Devil. He said, no!—‘this one thing I do’—putting aside
                    absolutely all else, he went on straight to that work, till they cut his head
                    off.
                I believe you do perceive; but, if you do not, take the Book and
                    examine it yourself. Be at the trouble. You will not get at the mind of the Lord
                    without a great deal of trouble on these matters of power, spiritual union, and
                    the like. Take the Bible with you on your knees before the Lord; show Him the
                    words, and say, ‘Now, Lord, show me the meaning of this.’ Wait, and there will
                    come a voice from the excellent glory. There will come light as from the
                    Shekinah, which will reveal it in your spiritual consciousness, and you will
                    thus know that thing for ever. You will be wiser than your teachers with respect
                    to that particular point.
                Further, you say, ‘Can we have this power equally with the early disciples?’ I
                    say, reasoning by analogy, assuming that what God has done in the past He will
                    continue to do in the future, is it not likely that He will give it to us,
                    because we equally need it?—we poor things, in
                    our day, as they did in theirs, we equally need it: first, because the
                        character of the agents is the same. We are very much like them, and
                    they were very much like us. Thank God. It has often encouraged me. If they had
                    been men of gigantic intellects and extraordinary education, training, and
                    position; if they had possessed all human equipment and qualifications, we might
                    have looked back through the ages in despair, and said, ‘I can never be such as
                    they were.’ Look what they were, naturally, apart from this gift of power. The
                    Holy Ghost has taken care to give us their true characters. They were men of
                    like passions, weaknesses, tendencies, liability to fall, with ourselves—just
                    such poor, frail, weak, easily-tripped-up creatures, and, in many instances,
                    unbelieving and disobedient, before Pentecost. Now, I say this is encouraging
                    for us all.
                You remember what Jesus said to Mary—‘Go and tell My disciples AND
                        PETER.’ Mary, perhaps, would have left Peter out after his shameful
                    denial of the Lord; for fear of this, Jesus said, ‘Go and tell My disciples
                        AND PETER.’
                Ah! there are some here saying, ‘But Peter was not so bad as I am.’ Well, we
                    don't know anything about that, but, whether you are worse or not, the Holy
                    Ghost is equal to the emergency. He can cure you. He can baptize you with His
                    power. You may have denied Him, if not as Peter did, yet practically as badly.
                    It makes no difference to God whether you have been a little bad or very bad;
                    whether you have denied Him once or thrice, or whether you have denied Him with
                    oaths and curses. If you will only come
                        and comply with the conditions, He will look on you, heal you,
                    and baptize you with power. Did they not all forsake Him and flee, except a few
                    poor faithful women? All the world forsook Him and fled in the hour of His
                    extremity. ‘Ah!’ you say, ‘well, I have done the same myself. I would not watch
                    with Him one hour. I have betrayed Him before my friends and acquaintances in
                    the world, where I have been brought into circumstances that have tested my
                    fidelity. My courage has failed, and I have failed to witness for Him.’ Yes, I
                    know and agree with you that it was base ingratitude. You were a traitor,
                    indeed, but still, if you will come back. ‘Peter,’ and repent, and do your first
                    works, He will receive you—baptize you with power. Oh! what they were before
                    Pentecost, and what they were after! Poor Peter, who could not stand the
                    questionings of a servant maid, who could not dare to have it said that he was
                    one of the despised Nazarenes, what a valiant soldier he afterwards became for
                    the Lord Jesus Christ, and how tradition says he was crucified for his Master at
                    the last. Anyway, we know he was a faithful and valiant soldier to the end of
                    his journey.
                Now, this baptism will transform you as it did them; it will make you all
                    prophets and prophetesses, according to your measure.
                Will you come and let Him baptize you? Will you learn, once and for ever, that it
                    is not a question of human merit, strength, or deserving at all,
                    but simply a question of submission, obedience, faith?
                Then we need it because not only are the agents the same, but our work is
                        essentially the same.
                
                It may differ in its outward manifestations because we live in an age of greater
                    toleration, but it is just the same in essence, and I do not know, as to the
                    manifestation, when you come to do it in Apostolic fashion, with the Apostolic
                    spirit, whether you do not get very much the same Apostolic treatment. They
                    gnash upon you with their teeth, and do as much as the law will let them, and
                    sometimes a little more, in the way of stoning and persecuting you.
                The great thing to be done by this power of God is to subdue the naturally evil,
                    wicked, and rebellious heart of man. Now God alone is able to do that. That is a
                    superhuman work. You may enlighten a man's intellect, civilize his manners,
                    reform his habits, make him a respectable, honest, industrious member of
                    society, without the power of God, but you cannot transform HIS
                        SOUL. That is too much for any human reformer. That is the
                    prerogative of the Holy Ghost, and I have not a shadow of a doubt that the
                    eternal day will reveal every other kind of work to be wood, hay, stubble. All
                    the sham conversions, all the people whose lives and opinions have been changed
                    by anything short of this power will be wood, hay, stubble. It is the
                    prerogative of the Spirit of God. Therefore, God never pretends to do it by any
                    other means; and all the way through the Bible this power is ascribed to the
                    Spirit of God. Therefore, we want this Spirit to do this work. What! you set
                    yourself to enlighten a darkened human soul, to convince a hardened, rebellious
                    sinner, to convert a rebel in arms against God, with an inveterate hatred in the
                    very core of his soul against God and all
                    about God. You set yourself to bring down that—to transform that evil, wicked
                    heart, to subdue that soul to submission and obedience!—you try it, try it
                    without the Spirit of God. Oh! no, you want that Spirit. You want the same
                    measure of that Spirit, just the same, which Paul had.
                And what is our work? To go and subjugate the world to Jesus; everybody we can
                    reach, everybody we can influence, and bring them to the feet of Jesus, and make
                    them realize that He is their lawful King and lawgiver; that the Devil is a
                    usurper, and that they are to come and serve Christ all the days of their lives.
                    Dare any of us think of it without this equipment of power? Talk about ‘Can we
                    have it?’—we are of no use without it. What can we do without it? This is the
                    reason of the effeteness of so much professed Christianity; there is no Holy
                    Ghost in it. It is all rotten. It is like a very pretty corpse—you cannot say
                    there is this wanting or the other wanting; it is a perfect form, but
                        dead. It is like a good galvanic battery. It is all
                    right—perfect in all its parts—but when you touch it there is no effect—there is
                    no fire or shock. What is the matter? It only wants the fire—the power.
                O friends, we want the power that we may be able to go and stretch ourselves upon
                    the dead in trespasses and sins, and breathe into him the breath of spiritual
                    life. We want to be able to go and touch his eyes that he may see, and speak to
                    the dead and deaf with the voice of God and make them hear. This is what we
                        want—POWER.
                If we equally need it, is it likely that God will
                    withhold it? Why, the Book, rightly read and understood, is full of
                    promise and exhortation to get it. Is it likely that if we are as frail as they
                    were, if the work is the same, is it likely that the God of all grace, and our
                    Father as much as theirs, and as much in sympathy with the souls of men, will
                    withhold it from us? No, no. But our Saviour distinctly told us that He bought
                    it for us—that it was more expedient that His people should have it than that He
                    should remain with them. It is promised to all believers to the end of time. The
                    conditions you know—simply putting away everything that hinders, casting aside
                    every doubtful thing, trampling it in the dust; then a full, whole-hearted
                    surrender to Him, embracing the Cross, embracing His will at all costs and
                    sacrifices, and then a determined march to the upper room at Jerusalem and a
                    determined abiding there until you get it—these are the conditions. Anybody can
                    have it on these terms.
                Then, in conclusion, let me remind you—and it makes my own soul almost reel when
                    I think of it—that God holds us responsible. He holds you responsible for all
                    the good you might do if you had it. Do not deceive yourself. He will have the
                        five talents with their increase. He will not have an excuse
                    for one, and you will not dare to go up to the throne, and say,
                    ‘Thou wast a hard Master, reaping where Thou hast not sown, and gathering where
                    Thou hadst not strewn. Thou badest me to save souls when Thou knewest I had not
                    the power.’ What will He say to you? ‘Wicked and slothful servant, out of thine
                    own mouth will I judge thee. You knew where
                    you could have got the power. You knew the conditions. You might have had it.
                    Where are the souls you might have saved? Where are the children that I would
                    have given you? Where is the fruit?’ O friends, these are solemn and awful
                    realities. If I did not believe them I should not stand here. Oh, what you might
                    do! Who can tell? Who would ever have thought, twenty years ago, when I first
                    raised my voice, a feeble, trembling woman, one of the most timid and bashful
                    the Lord ever saved, the hundreds of precious souls that would be given me? I
                    only refer to myself because I know my own case better than that of another;
                    but, let me ask you—supposing I had held back and been disobedient to the
                    Heavenly vision, what would God have said to me for the loss of all this fruit?
                    Thank God, much of it is already gathered into Heaven, people who have sent me
                    word from their dying beds, that they blessed God they had ever heard my voice,
                    saying that they should wait for me on the other side, prepared to lead me to
                    the throne—what would have become of the fruit? I should not have
                    had it, anyway. They would never have become my crown of rejoicing
                    in the day of the Lord. Oh, who can tell what God can do by any man or woman,
                    however timid, however faint, if only fully given up to Him? My brother, He
                    holds you responsible. He holds you responsible, my sister—you, who wrote me
                    about your difficulties and temptations in testifying of Jesus—He holds you
                    responsible. What are you going to do? Ask yourself. It is coming. You believe
                    it. You say you do. Unless you are a confirmed
                    hypocrite, you do believe—that you are going to stand before the throne of His
                    glory. You believe you are going to stand before Him by and by, when you shall
                    receive according to the things you have done in your body. What shall you say?
                    The world is dying—souls are being damned at an awful rate every day. Men are
                    running to destruction. Torrents of iniquity are rolling down our streets and
                    through our world. God is almost tired of the cry of our sins and iniquities
                    going up into His ears. What are you going to do, brother? What are you going to
                    do? Will you set to work? Will you get this power? Will you put away everything
                    that hinders? Will you have it at all costs?
                We had a letter only on Friday, about a gentleman who had been reconverted in the
                    services of The Salvation Army, telling us that he has relinquished an income of
                    £800 a year, in order to keep a conscience void of offence—this is the result of
                    the power of the Holy Ghost. I heard of another gentleman who was invited to a
                    party. After dinner, the card-table was got out, as usual, and when the cards
                    were all spread and everybody was ready to begin, this gentleman jumped up, and
                    pushed it away, and said, ‘I have done with this for ever.’ The lady who told me
                    said, ‘He was down on his knees before we had time to turn round, and was
                    praying for us and for all the house.’ ‘Oh!’ she added, ‘you should have seen
                    them.’ Yes, of course, every man felt like the people round the Saviour. Every
                    man's own conscience condemned him. ‘They went off home, without any more
                    card-playing, or dancing, or wine-drinking that night.’ Come out from amongst the ungodly. Testify against them. Reprove
                    them. Entreat them with tears. But be determined to deliver your soul of their
                    blood. God will give you the power, and He holds you responsible for doing
                    this—you people who have been coming here who have received the light.
                        WILL YOU DO IT? If you will, we shall meet again, and rejoice
                    with joy unspeakable. If you do, we shall praise God for ever that He brought us
                    inside the walls of this building, long after it has mouldered into dust. There
                    shall be children and grandchildren, and great grandchildren from you
                    spiritually, if you will only be faithful.
            
        
        
            
                
                Salvation Army Publications
                
                    BY THE FOUNDER
                    The Founder's Messages. A series of Letters originally
                        intended to be read at weekly gatherings. They contain much of the essence
                        of Salvationism, and are warmly recommended to the Soldiers and friends of
                        The Army everywhere. Cloth.
                    The General's Letters. A series of Letters dealing with
                        various phases of Christian life. They glow with Salvation warmth and
                        fervour. A book to inspire. Cloth.
                    Salvation Soldiery. Stirring addresses on essentials in true service for
                        Christ. Every page full of burning truth. Illustrated. Cloth.
                    Sergeant-Major Do-Your-Best of Darkington I; or, The Inner Working
                            of a Salvation Army Corps. In this stirring narrative the
                        characters all have their counterpart in Army life. It is written in a style
                        that carries the reader irresistibly along, and is deeply moving.
                        Cloth.
                    Religion for every Day. Religion in personal life is
                        discussed in many relationships. Problems are stated and solutions offered.
                        Cloth and Paper.
                    Love, Marriage, and Home. Volume II of above book. Cloth
                        and Paper. Also Double Volume. Cloth.
                    Purity of Heart. A fine Collection of Letters on Personal
                        Holiness. There have been many books written on Purity and Holiness of
                        Heart, but there is none that explains more distinctly and concisely, or in
                        plainer language, what Holiness is; what it is not; how it can be obtained,
                        and how retained. Cloth and Paper.
                    The Training of Children. Important to parents. This book
                        shows how to train children for God. Cloth.
                    The Seven Spirits; or, What I teach My Officers.
                        Cloth.
                    Visions. A remarkable dream and its lessons. Cloth.
                
                
                    BY THE ARMY MOTHER
                    Popular Christianity. A series of stirring lectures. One of
                        the best of Mrs. Booth's works. It was her last, and embodies the fruits of
                        her riper experience and matured convictions on the topics discussed in its
                        pages. Cloth and Paper.
                    Papers on Godliness. In this book Mrs. Booth corrects the
                        mistaken view that Holiness is beyond the reach of all but a privileged few.
                        She puts the case in a remarkably practical form, bringing the truth close
                        down to everyday life. Cloth.
                    
                    Life and Death. Stirring addresses to the unsaved.
                        Thoughtful and powerful appeals. 206 pages. Cloth.
                    Papers on Aggressive Christianity. Series of papers on
                        Christian Warfare. A widely appreciated book. Cloth.
                    Practical Religion. The man or woman who desires to win
                        others to the service of Christ, cannot do better than study earnestly the
                        wonderful addresses in this volume. Cloth and Paper.
                
                
                    BY THE GENERAL
                    Talks with Officers. A series of illuminating interviews on
                        important aspects of service on The Salvation Army. They contain
                        pronouncements on vital matters concerning Army principle, method, and
                        practice. Paper.
                    Papers on Life and Religion. A series of articles dealing
                        with many of the facts of existence as measured by the well-known standards
                        of Army teaching. They are well within the grasp of the least educated, and
                        not above the comprehension of persons little acquainted with Biblical
                        truth. Cloth.
                    Our Master; or, Thoughts for Salvationists about their
                            Lord. A series of studies from the earthly life of Jesus. A work
                        that compels thought, helps reason, and adds to courage. Open the book where
                        you will you discover something applying helpfully to yourself and your
                        circumstances. Cloth.
                    Bible Battle-Axes. Twenty stirring and illuminating
                        chapters. The book exalts the Bible as the great guide of thought and life.
                        A mine of treasure for teachers and preachers. Cloth.
                    Servants of All. With unique understanding the General
                        reveals the inner motive and outward expression of that service for God and
                        man rendered by Salvation Army Officers. Cloth.
                    On the Banks of the River. A touching history of the last
                        days on earth of the beloved Army Mother. Beautifully told, the story
                        reveals Mrs. Booth's indomitable, self-forgetful, and loving spirit. Cloth
                        and Paper.
                    Books that Bless. If we cannot manage to read all the books
                        we would, we can at least read a review of the best. The General, in his
                        ‘Books that Bless,’ gives valuable guidance in respect to reading for God's
                        people. 190 pages. Cloth.
                
                
                    BY AUTHORITY OF THE GENERAL
                    Handbook of Salvation Army Doctrine. What The Army believes
                        and teaches is concisely set forth in this volume of 188 pages. A chapter is
                        given on ‘Last Things,’ including Hell—Heaven—Death and
                        After—Resurrection—Judgment—The Return of Jesus Christ. Also an Appendix
                        deals with Baptism and the Lord's Supper. Cloth Boards and Limp
                        Cloth.
                
                
                
                    BY MRS. BRAMWELL BOOTH
                    Mothers and the Empire, and Other Addresses to Women. The
                        papers touch upon a wide range of vital subjects from woman's point of view.
                        The author writes from wide experience and out of a heart of sympathy for
                        her fellows. Cloth.
                    Powers of Salvation Army Officers. A series of addresses
                        setting forth high standards of life and service required of men and women
                        bearing responsibility in the service of The Army. It illuminates the mind
                        and stirs the heart. Cloth.
                    Friendship with Jesus. This book, which comprises a series
                        of soulful and illuminating addresses, sets forth with unmistakable
                        clearness and conviction The Army's lofty standards both in conduct and aim.
                        Cloth.
                    Likeness to God. A series of papers on the life of Full
                        Salvation and kindred subjects. The author's wide experience is drawn upon
                        in this compact volume in setting forth the simplicities and beauties of the
                        Divine life in the souls of the people.
                
                
                    BY COMMISSIONER HOWARD
                    Standards of Life and Service. Addresses delivered at
                        Central Holiness Meetings. Cloth and Paper.
                    Fuel for Sacred Fire. A work on Sanctification. Written
                        just before the author's death. It contains the best of the Commissioner's
                        heart and mind in respect to the subject of Full Salvation. Cloth.
                
                
                    BY COLONEL BRENGLE
                    When the Holy Ghost is Come. The work of the Holy Spirit in
                        the life of the child of God. Cloth.
                    Helps to Holiness. Showing how to attain immediate
                        enjoyment of Bible Holiness. Cloth.
                    Heart-Talks on Holiness. Experience and plain guidance in
                        respect to the Life of Holiness. Cloth.
                    The Way of Holiness. An invaluable work, suitable for both
                        seekers and teachers. Cloth.
                    The Soul-Winner's Secret. Helps to power in service.
                        Cloth.
                    Love-Slaves. ‘It is an encouraging message calculated to
                        incite us to seek after the highest things.’—THE GENERAL. Cloth.
                
                (All the works by Colonel Brengle may be obtained in a uniform crimson cloth
                    binding.)
                
                    BY MRS. COLONEL BRENGLE
                    The Army Drum. Stories illustrating the service or the Drum
                        in the warfare of The Salvation Army. Cloth.
                    
                    Half-Hours with My ‘Guide.’ Thoughts upon some of the
                        portions of ‘The Soldier's Guide.’ Blue Leather with Blue under Gold Edges,
                        or Red Leather with Red under Gold Edges, also Cloth.
                    What Hinders You? Dealing with common obstacles encountered
                        by persons seeking Full Salvation. Cloth or Paper.
                
                
                    ARMY BIOGRAPHIES
                    William Booth, the Founder of The Salvation Army. By
                            HAROLD BEGBIE. A comprehensive and thrilling life-story,
                        intensely arresting, a wonderful story of a wonderful man, and incidentally
                        a record of the Genesis of The Salvation Army. Profusely illustrated. 2
                        volumes. Cloth, £2 2s.
                    General Booth, Life of the Founder. By Commissioner
                            RAILTON. Cloth and Paper.
                    Catherine Booth, the Mother of The Salvation Army. By
                        Commissioner BOOTH-TUCKER. The story of the Army Mother and of her
                        wonderful labours for God and the people. This book has exercised a powerful
                        influence in the lives of men and women in all walks of life. Three volumes
                        profusely illustrated. Half Calf, £2 2s. Cloth, two volumes 16s. ABRIDGED
                        EDITION, containing the bulk of the original matter. Cloth, two volumes, 7s.
                        6d.
                    Catherine Booth. A short but delightful sketch of the life
                        of the Army Mother. By Commissioner DUFF. Cloth.
                    Consul Booth-Tucker. By Commissioner BOOTH-TUCKER,
                        a life-sketch of Emma, the second daughter of the Founder. The story of a
                        victorious life crowded with incessant toil and fighting, which closed
                        tragically, but in triumph. Cloth and Paper.
                    Miriam Booth. The life-story of Captain Miriam Booth, the
                        General's third daughter, by Mrs Colonel CARPENTER. While youth
                        remains the pure and simple record will be loved. A story of high endeavour,
                        victory, love, and romance. Cloth.
                    Commissioner Lawley. ‘A Living Hallelujah.’—THE
                            GENERAL. By Mrs. Colonel CARPENTER. A delightfully
                        intimate life-sketch of a Christian Missioner, who became one of the
                        Founder's trusted Armour-Bearers in his world campaigns.
                    Commissioner G.S. Railton. By Commissioner DUFF
                        and Brigadier DOUGLAS. The wonderful life-story of The Army's
                        Pioneer Commissioner. Cloth.
                    Three Great-Hearts. By Mrs. Colonel CARPENTER.
                        Life-sketches of three prominent Army Social Workers. Commissioner Sturgess,
                        Colonel J. Barker, and Brigadier F. Aspinall. These servants of God and men
                        lived, fought, and died for those who needed them most. Cloth.
                    
                    The Angel Adjutant. By Mrs. Colonel CARPENTER. The
                        life-story of Staff-Captain Kate Lee, who was the instrument used of God in
                        winning the trophies described in Harold Begbie's ‘Broken Earthenware.’
                        Cloth.
                    Elizabeth Swift Brengle. By Brigadier EILEEN
                            DOUGLAS. The life of Mrs. Colonel Brengle, author of a number of
                        Salvation Army works.
                    Notable Officers of The Salvation Army. By Mrs. Colonel
                            CARPENTER. The sketches in this volume have been brought
                        together in response to many inquiries. They are sent forth with the hope
                        that they may stimulate faith and courage in all who read them to a like
                        devotion in the love and service of the Saviour of the world. Including the
                        lives of Commissioner Howard, Commissioner Rees, Consul Booth-Tucker,
                        Colonel Yuddha Bai, Colonel Alice Barker, Colonel John Dean, Colonel
                        Weerasooriya, Colonel E. Sapsworth, Mrs. Colonel Yamamuro, Lieut.-Colonel
                        David Thomas, Lieut.-Colonel Jacob Junker, and Brigadier von
                        Haartman.
                
                
                    OTHER SALVATION ARMY PUBLICATIONS
                    Muktifauj; or, Forty Years with The Salvation Army in India and
                            Ceylon. By Commissioner BOOTH-TUCKER. An interesting
                        and informative sketch of The Army's rise and progress in these lands, by
                        The Army's Pioneer Missionary.
                    Interesting pamphlets by Commissioner BOOTH-TUCKER
                        
                            Jesus in His Home at Nazareth ... Price 6d.
                            Daily Mottoes for a Month ... 4d.
                            Pen-Gems from Brother Lawrence ... 1d.
                            Pen-Gems from Madame Guyon ... 1d.
                            Pen-Gems from the Bible ... 1d.
                            India's Millions. By Mrs. BOOTH-TUCKER 1d.
                        
                    Messages to Messengers. A series of Letters to former
                        Cadets. By Lieut.-Colonel CATHERINE BOOTH. With portrait
                        frontispiece. Cloth.
                    Joy in Sorrow. A fine collection of Poems selected by the
                        late Captain MIRIAM BOOTH. Specially suitable for a present to
                        people in circumstances of trial or sorrow. Cloth.
                    A Curate's Promise. By JOHN LAW. Three weeks in the life of a
                        Curate, whilst inquiring into Salvation Army Work in London during the Great
                        War. Paper.
                    Savonaola; the Italian Preacher and Martyr. By Commissioner
                            OLIPHANT. Cloth.
                    
                    The Angel of Kelly's Rints, and Other Stories. By
                            MARGARET ALLEN and EILEEN DOUGLAS. A splendid
                        collection of bright short stories written in dialect. Very suitable for
                        reading at informal Meetings. They cannot fail to interest readers and
                        hearers. Cloth.
                    Essays and Sketches on Salvation Army Work. A most useful
                        and interesting collection of papers on the work of The Salvation Army.
                        Among the writers are Sir WALTER BESANT, the late Dean
                            FARRAR, CHARLES MORLEY, Esq., ARNOLD WHITE,
                        Esq., ANNIE SWAN, and others. Cloth.
                    Practical Visionaries. By HUMPHREY WALLIS. With a
                        Foreword by the General. Pen sketches illustrating Salvation Army work
                        amongst the common people. They are vivid pictures drawn from the everyday
                        work of the rank and file of The Army. Cloth.
                    The New Testament Commentary (Salvation Army Edition). Just
                        re-issued. Terse expositions and comments by well-known authorities and
                        scholars, ALFORD, BENSON, EDERSHEIM, ELLICOT, MATTHEW HENRY, TRENCH,
                            WESLEY, and others. Cloth.
                    Twentieth Century New Testament. In Modern English. Cloth
                        and Paper.
                    Perfect Love; or, Plain Things for Those Who Need Them. A
                        Treatise on Christian Holiness. By Rev. J.A. WOOD. Cloth.
                    What Entire Sanctification Is. By Rev. J. WOOD.
                        1d.
                    Broken Earthenware; or, Twice-Born Men. By HAROLD
                            BEGBIE. This book tells of miraculous conversions of some of the
                        worst type of men. The ‘Daily Chronicle’ says: ‘In “Broken Earthenware” Mr.
                        Begbie has written a wonderful and convincing book.... It is only the
                        religion which still believes in a miracle that can be of any avail.’
                        Cloth.
                    The Light of India. By HAROLD BEGBIE. An intensely
                        interesting study of the people of India, with special reference to the
                        great conflict between Hinduism and Christianity. This book shows by
                        interesting narrative that the gospel of Christ meets the need of every
                        people, and is a striking story of missionary work. Cloth.
                    Forms and Ceremonies. By Commissioner KITCHING.
                        What The Army teaches about sacraments. Paper, 3d.
                
                A Complete List, with prices, on application.
                SALVATIONIST PUBLISHING AND SUPPLIES, LTD., 117, 119, and 121 Judd Street,
                    King's Cross, London, W.C.1.
            
        
    
