
     ----CITATION----
        Norton, Caroline Sheridan (1808-1877). English Laws for Women in the Nineteenth Century. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 443 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (February 29, 1996).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7061
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    English Laws for Women in the Nineteenth
                        Century.
                
                By C. Norton.
            
            
            
                PREFACE.
                IT has been remarked to me, that if there were no other reason why a
                    very reluctant attention should be granted to this Pamphlet, there would be “no
                    time” to notice a discussion of the Law, arising out of affairs purely personal,
                    at a period when subjects of momentous public importance occupy the minds of all
                    men. In answer to that remark I can only say, that I have never yet seen the
                    public mind in a state of such undivided attention. I have no doubt that in the
                    present Session, as in all others, there will be “time” for all usual
                    employments; time for assemblies, operas, and balls; time for races,
                    club?dinners, and fêtes; time for reading
                    works of science, and works of fiction; for the most abstract study, and for the
                    most frivolous gossip; time to discuss whether the arms of Scotland are properly
                    quartered with the arms of England, as well as to debate whether the Emperor of
                    Russia is to make war upon the world. It would be paying Englishmen a poor
                    compliment to suppose that the one subject they are determined not
                    to find time for, is the reform of some of their own laws; a reform confidently
                    alluded to by the Lord Chancellor, in his speech of the 14th February last year;
                    and formally introduced as one of the topics of the Queen’s Speech at the
                    opening of Parliament.
                Lord Campbell,—in his brilliant and interesting work, “The Lives of the
                    Chancellors,”—tells us that in the session of 1758 reference was made to the Judges on the motion of
                    ex?Chancellor Hardwicke, respecting a bill for amending the law of Habeas
                    Corpus; and it was proposed to introduce a new bill in the ensuing session. “But
                    I am sorry to say,”—observes Lord Campbell,—“that when the next session arrived,
                    nothing was thought of except the taking of QUEBEC; and
                    the subject was not again resumed, till the very close of the reign of George
                    III.”
                Now it is certainly possible, that in like manner the Law?reforms so confidently
                    promised for this session, may be set aside; and some future writer of
                    Chancellors’ Lives, may express his regret, that “in the Session of 1854 little
                    was thought of except the taking of SEBASTOPOL.”
                But, if another half century should glide away without reform in our
                    Ecclesiastical and other Courts (as more than half a century elapsed, between
                    the motion of ex?Chancellor Hardwicke and the amendment of the Habeas Corpus
                    Act) shall we set it all down to the overwhelming interest taken in Quebec and
                    Sebastopol?
                Shall we not rather look for the solution of these delays, in a certain
                    supineness on the part of those who work the machinery of justice? and in fact
                    (also stated by Lord Campbell) that “it is very difficult to draw the notice of
                    the representatives of the people to measures for the Amendments of the Law”?
                    Difficult to draw attention to such measures; not difficult to find “time,”
                    either for their discussion, or the consideration of any examples which may
                    prove the necessity of change.
            
        
        
        
            
                ENGLISH LAWS FOR WOMEN.
                BY C. NORTON.
                
                    [“It wont do to have TRUTH AND JUSTICE on our side; We
                        must have LAW AND LAWYERS.”]
                    CHARLES DICKENS.*
                
                I take those words as my text. In consequence of the imperfect state of the law,
                    I have suffered bitterly, and for a number of years: I have lately been
                    insulted, defrauded, and libelled: and as the law is constituted I find redress
                    impossible.
                To publish comments on my own case for the sake of obtaining sympathy; to prove
                    merely that my husband has been unjust, and my fate a hard one, would be a very
                    poor and barren ambition. I aspire to a different object. I desire to prove, not
                    my suffering or his injustice, but that the present law of England cannot
                    prevent any such suffering, or control any such injustice. I write in the hope
                    that the law may be amended; and that those who are at present so ill?provided
                    as to have only “Truth and Justice” on their side, may hereafter have the
                    benefit of “Law and Lawyers.”
                I know all that can be said on my interference with such a subject; all the
                    prejudice and contempt with which men will receive arguments from a woman, and a
                    woman personally interested. But it is of more importance that the law should be
                    altered, than that I should be approved. Many a woman may Bleak House, page 529. live to thank Heaven that I had courage and energy
                    left, to attempt the task: and, since no one can foretel the future, even men
                    may pause ere they fling down my pamphlet with masculine scorn; for a day may
                    come,—however improbable,—to some one of my readers, when he would give his
                    right hand, for the sake of sister, daughter, or friend, that the law
                        were in such a condition as to afford a chance of justice;
                    without the pain of a protracted struggle, or the disgrace of a public brawl.
                    What I write, is written in no spirit of rebellion; it puts forward no absurd
                    claim of equality; it is simply an appeal for protection. Such protection, in
                    degree, as is accorded to servants, to apprentices, to the sailor on the high
                    seas, to all whom the law admits to be in a subordinate and helpless position.
                    Such protection, in degree, as has lately been extended to women in the lower
                    classes, by the more stringent laws enacted in their behalf.
                In arguing my case from my own example, I am not ignorant that there are persons
                    who think such argument blameable on other grounds; who deem a husband’s right
                    so indefeasible, and his title so sacred, that even a wronged wife should keep
                    silence. How far will they carry that principle? A few years ago, a French
                    nobleman, the Duc de Praslin, assassinated his wife in the midst of her
                    slumbering household. When morning broke, she was dead; but many a proof
                    remained of the desperate resistance and agonized efforts to escape, made by
                    that wretched woman before her doom was completed. Do the advocates of the
                    doctrine of non?resistance consider that her duty would have been to submit
                    tranquilly to the fate pre?determined for her? If not, let them waive judgment
                    in my case; for if choice were allowed me, I would rather be murdered and
                    remembered by friends and children with love and regret, than have the slanders
                    believed, which my husband has invented of me. It is he, who has made silence
                    impossible. With HIM rests the breaking of those seals
                    which keep the history of each man’s home sacred from indifferent eyes. He has declared himself my deadliest foe, whose
                    dagger has too near an aim to miss my heart,—and, of the two, I hold his stab to
                    be worse than that of the Duc de Praslin, for he would assassinate even my
                    memory.
                I resist.
                For the shallower rebuke, that mine is an exceptional case; that the law need
                    scarcely be disturbed to meet a solitary instance of tyranny; there is a ready
                    and reasonable answer. ALL cases requiring legal
                    interference, are exceptional cases; and it will scarcely be argued that a
                    balance must first be struck in numbers, and instances of wrong be reckoned by
                    the dozen or the gross, before justice will condescend to weigh the scales. But
                    it does not follow that mine is a solitary example of injustice, because it may
                    possibly happen, from a combination of peculiar circumstances, to be the
                    instance which shall call attention to the state of the law. Hundreds of women
                    are suffering at this moment, whose cases are not less hard, but more obscure:
                    and it consists with all experience, that although wrong and oppression may be
                    repeated till they become almost of daily occurrence, they strike at last on
                    some heart that revolts instead of enduring; or are witnessed by men whose
                    indignant sympathy works out reform and redress. In either case, oppression is
                    brought to a halt not by a multitude of instances, but by some single example;
                    which example may be neither more nor less important than others, though it be
                    made the argument and opportunity of change. We are not told that any
                    extraordinary perfection marked for defence the peasant child of William Tell;
                    nor Wat Tyler’s daughter; nor even that virgin girl of Rome, for whom her sire
                    chose death rather than degradation: the doom had fallen, perhaps, on other
                    victims quite as worthy. But it was resisted for them by hearts
                    that beat high in defence of honest right; and therefore (and not for the value
                    of the victims) we read in the records of history, of a pagan father who took
                    his child’s life; of Christian fathers who perilled their own; and of those
                    convulsions, changes, and tumults, which had
                    their proximate and apparent cause in the desire to avenge a tyrannous act done
                    to a peasant’s son,—to punish insult offered to a craftsman’s daughter,—to keep
                    from defilement one weak girl, claimed by a despotic ruler, in the market?place
                    of superb Rome;—but whose root was in this established certainty; that in all
                    human societies, great general injustice shall be checked, sooner or later, by
                    individual resistance.
                If, as I have said, it does not necessarily follow that the example of resistance
                    is also the example of crowning wrong; so neither does it follow that there is
                    tyranny greater than usual enacted, when the benefactor arises, whose chivalrous
                    nature sees cause for exertion, where other men saw none. Not even then, in the
                    merit of the sufferers, or the degree of their suffering, lies the prospect of
                    change; but in the spirit of him who will not tamely contemplate any misery he
                    thinks he might relieve. He follows in the track of those who have all “passed by on the other side;” but he differs from them in
                    this, that he pauses to know what wounded and moaning thing is flung across his
                    path, and forthwith accepts as his business, that task of rescue which more
                    selfish and careless men have declined. The good Samaritan in Scripture,
                    addressed himself to no peculiar case; he lifted no bleeding hero from a
                    disastrous battle?field; nor king, writhing under the assassin’s stroke. A man
                    lay groaning, who had fallen among thieves. That is all we shall ever know of
                    the example of help, given as a lesson of charity eighteen hundred years ago, to
                    the fleeting generations of the world!
                In these later days of more complicated social wrong; when HOWARD
                    rose amongst us, apostle of compassion to sufferers barred out of sight; our
                    prisons were no worse than they had been, nor our prisoners better men; their
                    dungeons were not darker, nor their food more scant, nor their sighing louder,
                    nor their case more pitiful than theirs who had gone before. Circumstance was
                    the same, but the hazard of help had arrived.
                    The sighing was heard, the darkness was perceived, the hunger for human pity was
                    satisfied, not for the sake of those especial prisoners, but because
                        HOWARD was come. So in ERSKINE’S time; the laws
                    were not more oppressive, nor their operation more unequal, than in a generation
                    foregone; nor were the men who had to abide by the legal decisions of the day,
                    unusually notable and important. They were the common clients of common causes,
                    suffering under common and established grievances, arising from those defects in
                    our patched?up system, which no one yet had cared to examine, or had found
                    sufficient energy to correct. But ERSKINE came; and when men told
                    him that such defects were part of the law “before he was born,” he answered,
                    that it was “because he was not born, that it was law,” for that he would see it
                    altered before he died.
                So with ROMILLY: it was no new thing that roused his earnest nature
                    to struggle for reforms in the science of that profession which he at once 
                        adored
                        adorned
                     and detested. Many a prisoner without counsel, had stood wistfully at
                    the bar before ROMILLY’S time; listening to learned accusations
                    dimly understood, destitute of defence. Many a long?staining blur and blot lay
                    unremoved on the great scroll of our national code; when his warm eloquence,
                    enlarged views, profound thought, and keen comparison with the universal law of
                    nations, worked together for its amendment. He did not plead (for he could not
                    so have pleaded) that the men of his day who found no help from that code, were
                    peculiar martyrs; of higher desert, with more atrocious injuries to redress, and
                    with less chance of redressing them, than heretofore. He knew that this was not
                    the case. All was common, usual, inevitable; and because being common, usual,
                    and inevitable, it was also UNJUST, and not for merit in
                    the sufferers, or excess in any one case of suffering, he strove for change, and
                    effected it.
                We need the heart of a ROMILLY amongst us now. That strenuous heart,
                    whose energetic pity made no compromise with custom; nor ever flagged or fainted
                    in the life?long effort to serve his fellow?men,
                    till, in an hour of delirious regret, its strong pulse was stilled for ever.*
                If HE were here—if he were here, who so valued the wedded
                    companion of his own home, that when she died he sank, scathed by her loss as by
                    lightning,—he would not answer with contented apathy, “IT IS THE
                        LAW,” when women complain of injustice! He would stand for the right
                    now, as he stood in those other days, when he nobly strove, and patiently
                    planned, to make Law what it should be, a means of protection, not an engine of
                    oppression, to the weak. Is there no one with heart great enough to fill his
                    place ?
                IT IS THE LAW. Can anything be more curious than the
                    crabbed obstinacy or despairing sigh with which this reply is made? as though we
                    had for our guidance the edicts of the Medes and Persians, of which it was
                    fabled that they involved no principle of change. Yet changes are perpetually
                    made in the most stringent edicts we have. That which was law to the generation
                    of yesterday, is not law to us; and that which is law to us, may be reversed for
                    the generation of tomorrow: why should unjust laws for women be more permanent
                    than other unjust laws? We know that LAW was mapped and
                    planned among civilised nations as the great Highway to JUSTICE. Where the road leads astray, it should be mended or
                    altered; and it is one of the boasts of our ever?boastful England, that she does
                    this. Not indeed of a sudden, with the stroke of some magic wand; but after
                    fitful struggle and delay, as all things are done on this travailing earth; a
                    delay proportioned to the strength of ancient prejudices, the jealousy of
                    contending interests, the energy or slackness of the hands that do the work.
                Neither my space,—nor my bounded knowledge,—will permit Sir Samuel Romilly lost his wife, after a
                        long and happy union, on the 29th October, 1818. After four days and nights
                        of excessive anguish and grieving, his mind became disturbed, and he
                        committed self?destruction. that I
                    should follow, in detail, even the most recent of those changes; but take such
                    instances as the hazard of memory, or the very shallowest chance?reference can
                    supply; take them entirely from among facts within the cognizance of living men;
                    and you shall crowd into a few pages, such reversal of mercantile, political,
                    social, and religious rights, as have altered the destinies of the entire
                    population of England. Our children are born to the tranquil inheritance of
                    privileges that were struggled for in our time, with fury, ferment, and
                    heart?break. They stand on conquered ground; ground that was inch by inch a
                    battle?field to their fathers. They exchange among themselves as current and
                    common coin, those treasures of Liberty that freighted our argosies in stormier
                    days; when they who watched the doubtful chance, knew not if they should witness
                    the sinking of the wreck, or cheer our entrance to the haven. Some of the
                    captains of those days are at rest; but some are yet among us; witnesses of the
                    folly of those who would set a changeless limit, to that which of all things is
                    most susceptible of change in the onward progress of a nation—the code by which
                    its social interests are governed.
                Where is the great question of Roman Catholic Emancipation? Where are the
                    restrictions on trade? The first, already seems to our children almost a matter
                    of History; yet there are living men who heard CANNING give
                        BROUGHAM the lie direct in the English Senate, when that
                    question trembled in the balance; and the brilliant Advocate of many causes, in
                    the keen anxiety of the hour, taunted the new Minister with exchanging for the
                    triumphs of office the support he had previously afforded it. The other is a
                    change of yesterday. Fresh, in the mourning memory of friends, is the death of
                    that leader who moored the vessel of the State in an untried anchorage, with the
                    scornful words that he refused to direct its course “by
                        observations taken in 1842,” and that he would feel less humiliated by
                    the charge of inconsistency than by any supposed fear of acknowledging that he
                    had altered his opinions.
                
                Whether it be contended that our rulers were enlightened or struck blind when
                    they projected such changes,—the changes were made: every portion of those two
                    systems remains for our children, a law reversed or a barrier broken down.
                Where are the grosser corruptions of our Parliamentary representation? Swept away
                    one morning in a storm of cheers. Yet it is not so long since Lord John Russell
                    attempted to sow the first fragile seed of the Reform Bill, by proposing that
                    rotten boroughs should be purchased by the nation; their owners to receive
                    compensation from an indebted country, for the extinguished right of selling
                    shares in what is supposed to be the aggregate Voice of the People. It is not so
                    long since the same Minister of Liberty urged the claim of those great capitals
                    of mercantile interest, Manchester, Birmingham, and Leeds, to be represented in
                    the lower house, and urged that claim in vain: since he complained of national
                    apathy on the subject which afterwards shook England to its centre: and beheld
                    that great measure of Reform which, like the burden of Sisyphus, he had heaved
                    up so often only to see it roll back to its former position,—allowed at length
                    to rest in the English Senate,—by favour of a majority of ONE.
                These are changes, affecting political rights; struggled for by political men;
                    opposed or upheld by the whole mass of the people: but there are others,
                    affecting sections of the community, in which an equal or even greater amount of
                    alteration has been effected, and in which the value and power of individual
                    effort is more distinctly visible. Our Schools, our Prisons, and our Mad?houses,
                    are all under Government supervision. Their occupants form classes set apart—by
                    helplessness of age, by error of conduct, and by the visitation of God—from
                    those that have free control of their destiny: and we point with pride to the
                    model regularity of system and of architecture which we have recently introduced
                    for the better management of their interests. How was it before the change could
                    be effected? How was it, first, with the most miserable of those classes, the insane? Obscure struggles, half measures,
                    renewed efforts, mark the progress from 1763 till, in the year 1788, Mason the
                    Poet wrote a pamphlet, finding bitter fault with the management of the York
                    Asylum. The tone of his pamphlet was condemned. There is nothing society resents
                    so much as having the duckweed on the still pond of its surface disturbed by the
                    under?current of struggling lives. Society did not want to hear about such
                    horrors; society was of the opinion they could not be helped. Mr Mason was
                    loudly blamed for his interference, and he and his pamphlet were thrust aside.
                    About three years afterwards, the relatives of an insane Quaker being
                    discontented with the regulations of the same Asylum, renewed the complaints
                    Mason had made; and followed them up with considerable perseverance. Little was
                    done however, except that the ‘Retreat’ at York was established by the Quakers
                    themselves. Every sort of obstacle was thrown in the way of public inquiry. At
                    length (with praiseworthy ingenuity), thirteen gentlemen qualified as Governors
                    of the York Asylum by paying twenty guineas each, for the express purpose of
                    getting a committee of the House of Commons appointed to examine into this
                    matter. They did get the Committee appointed; the expenses of most of the
                    witnesses being paid by a subscription raised among the ladies of York: and thus
                    began that interference with a monstrous evil, which is now a matter of regular
                    government control. In the particular instance of the York Asylum, the most
                    horrible abuses were discovered. There were but two servants to one hundred and
                    twenty male patients; the funds had been misapplied; the books and registries
                    burned; the grossest immorality practised; and in the report of deaths, 144 out
                    of 365 had been suppressed. As the inquiry spread to other asylums, more and
                    more horrors were made known. When Mr Wakefield visited Bethlem, among countless
                    other instances of cruelty one man was found with an iron ring round his neck,
                    an iron bar round his waist, and iron pinions on his arms, fastened to the wall;
                    and this had endured twelve years at the
                    pleasure of one of the keepers. In the House of Correction at Kendal a man had
                    been in solitary confinement ten years, though he had intervals of sanity of
                    nine and ten months’ duration. As to the condition of the insane women, it was
                    one to shudder at, not to speak of. In private mad?houses (in spite of an act
                    passed in 1774 *) matters were as bad, or worse;
                    and one of the visiting physicians declared he was ill with the atmosphere of
                    their filth, “although accustomed to the dissecting room.” At length, in 1816 a
                    bill passed the Commons (and was lost in the Lords) “for the better Regulation
                    of Mad?houses;” and gradually that came to be a public and redressed wrong,
                    which had been an obscure grievance.
                Of our prison discipline, much the same history may be told. Long after Howard’s
                    time (who declared in 1773, that so miserably off were those kennelled
                    sufferers, that “to rot in jail,” was an exact and not a figurative expression,
                    and that more persons perished thus than by public execution), our prisons
                    remained, for the most part, dens of corruption, disease, and torture. In 1804,
                    Mr Neild, a magistrate of Aylesbury, (Secretary to a Society for the relief and
                    discharge of poor Debtors), published, in the ‘Gentlemen’s Magazine,’
                    observations on Chelmsford and Colchester Bridewells. He afterwards published an
                    account of all the jails in this island; which he had visited unauthorised and
                    unaided, Government doing nothing to help him in his self?imposed task, and
                    obstacles having been thrown in his way which would have wearied out any less
                    benevolent patience. From 1804 to 1812, he appears to have been ceaseless in his
                    endeavours to procure some amendment; and though, when Fowell Buxton followed in
                    1818, and when Mrs Fry devoted herself to the female prisoners of Newgate, very
                    little general improvement was perceptible; yet much Brought under the notice of Parliament ten
                        years previously. was done in
                    Neild’s time to make progress almost certain, and a retrograde movement
                    impossible. The jail of Aylesbury (with which he was more immediately
                    connected), and other prisons, controlled in their management by men like
                    himself, became what it is the cant term of the day to call ‘Model Prisons.’ The
                    abuses of those he could not control, were exposed by him. It became
                        known that in the Borough Compter prison the debtors lay upon
                    boards; in filth, damp, and discomfort; felons and debtors all huddled together;
                    no classification, no comfort, no decency. That in Ayr jail, the prisoners lay
                    on straw, till Mr Neild supplied blankets from his own private charity. That in
                    Edinburgh jail, the same miseries and even greater were endured; no employment
                    was permitted; and felons (with an enlightened regard for the state of their
                    souls) were absolutely excluded by rule, from attendance on divine
                        service. In the privileged prison of Dover Castle, when its warder
                    was the great Minister Lord Liverpool (who had been preceded by Mr Pitt), the
                    prison?fees were so enormous that prisoners might remain twenty months in the
                    Castle at the suit of the Crown, for sums totally irrespective of
                    the real debt for which they were incarcerated. The prison was in a state of
                    shameful dilapidation; and a Quaker gentlemen gave 800
                        l.
                        pound
                     in the three per cents, to pave the court yard of this royal jail, and
                    make permanent provision to aid the poorer debtors in obtaining their release.
                    These were merely samples of the condition of most of the prisons in Great
                    Britain. In Fowell Buxton’s time the Borough Compter was little altered; dirt,
                    confusion, and misery; cold, sickness, and gambling; and twenty prisoners
                    sleeping on eight straw beds. This, again, a mere sample of the condition of
                    other jails. In Mrs Fry’s time, Newgate, which was built to hold 480, held from
                    800 to 1200; no classification, no employment, no instruction; filth that
                    sickened and turned the heart faint; instances of debtors actually starving in
                    jail; the accused and convicted, sick and well, abandoned women, and children young enough to be in the nursery, all huddled
                    together; prisoners employed in gambling, and complaining that they had nothing
                    else to do. Idleness, contamination, riot, sickness, and blasphemy; no rest by
                    night, and no peace by day; only corruption, mental and physical, hourly
                    leavening among neglected swarms of fellow?creatures, with bodies to care for
                    and souls to be saved.
                To the efforts, first of one earnest individual, and then of another, must be
                    attributed the attention slowly granted by successive Governments to these great
                    abuses; until at length the greater part of our prisons have become a triumph
                    and a show; from the regulations of which it needs only that some future Neild
                    should expunge the barbarous mistake of prolonged solitary confinement, to make
                    them as perfect as places of the kind can be.
                To the efforts of earnest individuals, must also be attributed that control now
                    exercised over the education of the poor. Where was England in this respect
                    fifty or sixty years since? In 1798 a Mr Lancaster opened a school in the
                    Borough road, which in seven years became a free school for one thousand
                    children. The expenses of Mr Lancaster’s plan outran his means, and a Mr Joseph
                    Fox gave bills for 3,600
                        l.
                        pound
                     to take the school out of debt; risking this sum without any very
                    clear prospect of repayment, for the sake of the cause. Other generous and
                    public spirited men then came forward, and Mr Lancaster travelled through the
                    country giving lectures and explaining his scheme. In consequence of those
                    lectures, forty?five schools, educating 11,300 children were established; in the
                    year 1809, fifty schools, educating 14,200 children were organised; and at
                    length, at a meeting held at the Freemason’s Tavern on the 11th of May,
                    1811,—two Royal Princes (the Duke of York and the Duke of Sussex), moved and
                    seconded a resolution, that Mr Lancaster deserved the thanks and support of all
                    England, for that in four years he had been the means of causing some 25,000
                    children to be educated; and Mr Francis Horner at the same meeting declared, that of the 7,000 children educated
                    in Lancaster’s own school in the Borough road, not one had ever been charged in
                    a court of justice with any criminal offence.
                With the great educational movement which afterwards took place, and the
                    endeavour to make the state in some degree responsible for the training of the
                    people, Lord BROUGHAM’S name must for ever be nobly associated.
                    With him (one of the most scientifically educated men of his day), rested the
                    task of arguing away the absurd prejudice that if the lower classes were
                    instructed, they would disdain to work; with him rested the long struggle
                    against the abuses of charitable trusts, and bequests for educational purposes;
                    the sacredness of which was so little understood, that Lord Kenyon remarked of
                    the grammar schools, that “everything was neglected except the
                        receipt of salaries and emoluments;” and Lord Eldon, that “all over the Kingdom, charity estates were dealt with in a
                        manner amounting to the most direct breach of Trust.” There was no such
                    tranquil admission on all sides as exists to?day, that the State is bound to
                    watch over and secure to its poorer millions the inestimable blessing of
                    education. Lord Brougham was flouted and opposed; and in nothing did he
                    encounter more opposition or greater odium, than in his attempt to prevent this
                    embezzlement of the property of the poor. With most pertinacious energy he made
                    himself their pioneer to knowledge; and most assuredly, when the balance of
                    usefulness is struck in his dazzling and eccentric career, the triumph can never
                    be denied him of having been a main means of securing to future generations of
                    Englishmen, the first of life’s blessings both in date and degree; that early
                    and orderly training which lifts a toiling man above the level of a toiling
                    brute; which teaches him to use the powers of his soul in addition to the powers
                    of the body; which makes slumber and food no longer the sole refreshment of the
                    intelligent artisan, and throws a light into the labourer’s cottage beyond the
                    common light of day.
                It is not because I undervalue the help thus given at a later stage of the cause, that I endeavoured to mark the
                    moment when national progress was set on foot by individual energy.* I know that when Lancaster’s theory was made
                    public, the Duke of Bedford and Lord Somerville became eager supporters of his
                    scheme; that the King and all the Royal Family warmly assisted him (as they
                    afterwards did his sometime rival, Dr Bell); and that in process of time, the
                    liberality of the public became so general, that the Lancastrian schools seemed
                    supported rather by the levying of a national tribute, than by the payment of
                    collected subscriptions. But that which I insist upon, is the small beginning
                    from which these great results were evolved. Not by national acclamation of an
                    all?pervading plan, but by the resolute and patient struggle of a private
                    individual—that great scheme of National Instruction was begun. When it appeared
                    likely to fail for want of funds, a private individual (Mr JOSEPH
                    In 1787,—that which Mr
                        Lancaster achieved many years afterwards for ENGLAND,
                        was attempted for IRELAND by Mr Thomas Sheridan, son
                        of Dr Sheridan (the friend of Swift), and the father of R. B. Sheridan.
                        Though not a scholar by profession,—as Dr Sheridan was,—he had great
                        classical attainments, and the degree of Master of Arts was conferred on him
                        both at Oxford and Cambridge. He wrote much on practical education; the
                        necessity of learning “common things;” and the folly of confining
                        instruction so much to the study of the dead languages. He had long planned
                        a National Establishment for Ireland; funds for which he believed might in
                        the first instance be raised, by putting down free schools where, from
                        gradual abuse, no duty was done. When his two sons, Charles and Richard
                        Brinsley, were in conspicuous public situations,—Charles as Secretary?of?War
                        in Ireland, and the younger, and more distinguished, in the zenith of his
                        fame in England,—Mr T. Sheridan reckoned on obtaining the notice and support
                        of Government for his educational schemes, more especially as Mr Orde
                        (Secretary to the Duke of Rutland), took an eager interest in them. The
                        death however, of the Duke, and the removal of Mr Orde, checked his
                        projects; nor was it likely he would at that time obtain much encouragement.
                        The then Ministry was far too busy with the intrigues of a divided
                        Court,—the impeachment of the Governor?General of India,—the payment of the
                        Crown Prince’s debts,—and the disputes whether Fox had or had not mocked the
                        English Senate with a deliberate falsehood, sealed with the Prince’s word,
                        relative to the marriage with Mrs Fitzherbert,—to have time to spare for a
                        sanguine Irishman’s plans for educating his countrymen; and in the ensuing
                        year Mr Sheridan died.
                    FOX) risked his 3,600
                        l.
                        pound
                     to save it from evil chance. To him joined five other private
                    gentlemen (Mr JACKSON, Mr ALLEN, Mr
                        CORSTON, Mr  STURGE, and Mr FOSTER),
                    who subscribed, and obtained subscriptions from others, and formed themselves
                    into a committee to manage Mr Lancaster’s affairs. When that brilliant meeting
                    of the 11th of May 1811, was held, it was rather to applaud what had been
                    achieved, than to rouse to action: to congratulate on foregone victories; and to
                    obtain fresh subsidies for the successful general who had carried on the battle
                    against ignorance with an army of volunteers. Before those Royal Princes the
                    Duke of KENT and Duke of SUSSEX,—or the Chancellor of
                    the Prince Regent,—or the Duke of BEDFORD, Marquis of
                        LANSDOWNE, Lord KEITH, FRANCIS
                    HORNER, and HENRY BROUGHAM,—proposed resolutions at the
                    Freemason’s Tavern as “Friends of the Royal Lancastrian System for the Education
                    of the Poor,”—Mr LANCASTER had laboured in his vocation for
                        thirteen years. When his school was first opened in the Borough road,
                    probably his very name was unknown to most of these great personages, and many a
                    name less notable and less remembered had given substantial aid to the cause,
                    before they became its patrons.
                And now let me ask,—is there any reason why attention should not be called to the
                    defective state of Laws for Women in England, as attention has been called to
                    other subjects:—namely, by individual effort? Is there any reason why (attention
                    being so called to the subject) Women alone, of the more helpless classes,—the
                    classes set apart as not having free control of their own destinies,—should be
                    denied the protection which in other cases supplies and balances such absence of
                    free control? Are we to believe that the gentlemen of Great Britain are so
                    jealous of their privilege of irresponsible power in this one respect, that they
                    would rather know redress impossible in cases which they themselves
                    admit to be instances of the grossest cruelty and baseness, than frame laws of
                    control for themselves such as they are willing to frame for others? Will they eagerly restrict the labourer or mechanic
                    from violence and brutality in his wretched home, and yet insist on their own
                    right of ill?usage as a luxury fairly belonging (like the possibility of
                    divorce) to the superior and wealthy classes? Is there,—in the disposition of
                    those who are to legislate,—an insurmountable barrier to fair legislation on
                    this subject? and if not, is there any reason why (to plead the cause of the
                    inferior sex as humbly as possible) the laws and enactments for their protection
                    should not undergo as much revision, with as fair a chance of beneficial
                    alteration, as the regulations affecting the management of pauper
                    children,—insane patients,—and the tried and untried prisoners who occupy our
                    gaols?
                I forget; I might plead yet more humbly; I might drop yet one great step in the
                    social scale, to find a more exact parallel with the legal position of women in
                    this country.
                England has lately made a sort of ovation to an American lady, whose graphic and
                    impassioned appeal on the anti?slavery question, reached Europe in the guise of
                    a romance; a romance which has since been translated into most modern
                    languages,—so that “Uncle Tom’s Cabin” has become everywhere a “household word.”
                    Had I been in England at the time Mrs Beecher Stowe visited us, I too, would
                    have considered it a privilege and joy to see one whose genius glorified that
                    solemn and gloomy argument, and sent it amongst us clothed in light. I wish her
                    success. I desire heartily for her that her name may hereafter be remembered
                    with a blessing, among the names of those who were early labourers in a day now
                    dawning, that shall bring help to the helpless. I hold her task to be a holy
                    one, and slavery an accursed thing.
                But, meanwhile, it may not be uninteresting to those Americans who are of a
                    contrary opinion, and who have felt wounded at the manner in which we have
                    called across the Atlantic to bid America renounce the error of her way,—to look
                    back to the time,—when so new and unwelcome was our conversion to the creed of
                    mercy, in our own colonies, that Lord Seaforth
                    wrote home to Ministers in 1802, to say he had offended the whole island of
                    Barbadoes by endeavouring to persuade them that the wilful murder of a slave
                    should be made felony, instead of being compounded for by a fine of 11
                        l.
                        pound
                     4
                        s
                        shilling
                    . The time when WILBERFORCE was a struggling enthusiast in
                    an uncertain cause; when our King, Prince of Wales, and the whole of the Royal
                    Family (with the single exception of the Duke of Gloucester), were opposed to
                    the Abolition Bill; when Pitt despaired of carrying that measure, and it was a
                    hot angry war among Englishmen whether it should pass or not
                        .
                         
                     A war which continued through years of debating and pamphleteering,
                    before the victory was won by our Abolitionists.
                It may not be uninteresting to Americans to know, also, that if they will examine
                    the reports of our House of Commons,—after that struggle was fairly ended, and
                    the new law had been passed,—they will find the prototype of
                        “LEGREE” in the person of “ARTHUR HODGE, Esq., one
                    of the Members of his Majesty’s Council for the Virgin Islands,”—who, in the
                    year 1811, was brought to trial and condemned for the murder of a slave named
                    Prosper on his estate in the island of Tortola,—when his countless cruelties
                    were exposed, in sworn depositions preserved in those records. There, Americans
                    may find the original of UNCLE TOM, in “TOM BOILER, a
                    stout, hale, hearty man,” who in the year 1807 was laid down and flogged without
                    intermission for more than an hour by order of HODGE, and being
                    unable to rise after the flogging, was carried to the sick?house; lingered a few
                    days; and then died. There, they will find it computed that sixty of Hodge’s
                    slaves had perished in three years from severity of punishment, and not more
                    than three, in that period, had died a natural death. About a dozen of these
                    wretched victims are named in the affidavits reported to our House of Commons;
                    among them are women and children: one child of ten years old, named
                        TAMSEN, having been dipped (by order) into a
                    copper of boiling liquor, and two of the women having had boiling water poured down their throats. Yet when this
                    subject of King George of England was tried, it was pleaded for him in open
                    court that a negro being property, it was no greater offense in law for his
                    owner to kill him than to kill a dog: the jury, though they returned a verdict
                    of “guilty,” by a majority of their number recommended Hodge to mercy: and
                    Governor Elliot wrote home in his despatches, that he was obliged to be present,
                    as Commander?in?chief,—to call out the militia,—and to proclaim martial law,—in
                    order to secure the execution of the sentence. It is a remarkable additional
                    fact, and shows the state of feeling at that time, that although these and a
                    thousand other horrors were perfectly well known, ARTHUR HODGE,
                    Esq., was well received in the society of the island, and retained his rank as
                    “one of the Members of his Majesty’s Council” up to the day of his arrest.
                But these are things of the past: horrible shadows, remembered like bad dreams:
                    events that never can occur again where England’s law has sway. For England is
                    just and merciful; and if she is also a little proud and preaching, it is no
                    more than all converts to good causes are apt to be, in the fresh earnestness of
                    their desire that truths lately brought home to themselves, should be brought
                    home to others; and if she finds fault with the laws that permit oppression in
                    the code of other countries, it is that she has no law which permits oppression
                    in her own.
                I beg the attention of both my American and English readers to a case I find
                    copied, from a report in a “Cincinnati Gazette,” into the columns of our own
                    “Times” newspaper, in the month of November, 1853. It was a case tried in the
                    Covington Circuit Court, and by the report it appears, that a slave named Sam
                    Norris, belonging to a Mr J.N. Patton, of Virginia, had been permitted to work
                    in Covington, on condition of paying each year a certain sum to his master;
                    which sum was accordingly paid: that two years ago, Mr Patton proposed that the
                    slave should purchase his freedom by the payment of a certain additional sum, which sum was nearly paid
                    up when Mr Patton changed his mind, rescinded the contract, and claimed Sam
                    Norris as his slave. The case was argued with much ability; but at the close of
                    the argument the judge decided for Mr Patton against Sam Norris, on this
                    principle, that by the law of Kentucky “a slave cannot make a
                        contract, nor can he have monies of his own.” The contract, therefore,
                    was null and void; and the money, though received and expended by the master,
                    could not be held legally to have been paid. The report concludes
                    with this consolatory admission, that the Hon. Judge Pryor, before whom the case
                    was tried, “characterised it as one of great hardship and cruelty; and every one
                    in the court?room seemed to sympathise deeply with the poor negro.” In that
                    sympathy I most truly share; but the case has besides a peculiar interest for
                    me,—inasmuch as I find, in the slave law of Kentucky, an exact parallel of the
                    law of England for its married women; and in this passage in the life of the
                    poor slave Sam Norris, an exact counterpart of what has lately occurred in my
                    own.
                I, too, had a contract. My husband being desirous to raise money settled on me
                    and my sons, to employ on his separate estate, and requiring my consent in
                    writing before that could be done, gave me in exchange for such consent a
                    written contract drawn up by a lawyer, and signed by that lawyer and himself.
                    When he had obtained and employed the money he was desirous to raise, like Mr
                    Patton of Virginia he resolved to “rescind the contract.”
                    When I, like the slave Norris, endeavoured to struggle against this gross breach
                    of faith,—I was informed that by the law of England, “a married
                        woman could not make a contract, or have monies of her own.” When I
                    complained of it,—I was punished by a flood of libellous accusations, published
                    in all the English newspapers; libels for which, though proved
                    falsehoods, I could obtain no redress, because they were published by my
                    husband. The circumstance that Mr Norton, like Mr Patton, had obtained all the advantage he sought when he went through the
                    formality and pretence of making a contract with me, made no difference; and as
                    to money, even that which I earned by literature was subject to the claim of my
                    husband, as the manual labour of the slave was subject to the claim of his
                    master,—because a married woman is, by the code of England, (as Sam Norris by
                    the code of Kentucky) non?existant in law. It is fit that I should
                    add, in behalf of English hearts and English love of justice, that when I stood,
                    with that vain contract in my hand, in the Westminster County Court; (I, an
                    intelligent educated woman, grand?daughter of a man sufficiently distinguished
                    to have obtained sepulture in Westminster Abbey, hard by,) and when the law was
                    shown to be, for me, what it is for the slave of Kentucky, there was, in the
                    court?room of the Westminster County Court, as there was in the court?room of
                    the Covington Circuit Court, evidence of strong sympathy. My case,—which opened
                    up a history of wrong, treachery, libel, and injustice endured for years without
                    redress—was evidently considered like that of Norris, to be “one of great
                    hardship and cruelty,” and the concluding words with which Mr Norton vehemently
                    attempted to address the court, were drowned in the groans and hooting of an
                    excited crowd. But sympathy could do no more for me than for Mr Patton’s slave.
                    It could not force open for me the iron gates of the LAW
                    which barred out justice. It could not prevent libel, and torment, and fraud;
                    the ripping up of old wounds, or the infliction of new. The LAW alone could do that, if fit laws of protection existed for
                    women. That they do not exist, is my complaint.
                That they do not exist, might point a scornful answer from nations we imperiously
                    lecture on the internal economy of their own governments. We have rebuked
                    America, taunted Naples, complained of Sweden, remonstrated with Tuscany
                        ,
                         
                     condemned Portugal, and positively shuddered at Austria (in the person
                    of HAYNAU), because slavery in the one, the treatment of political
                    prisoners in another, religious intolerance in
                    third, and above all, the treatment of WOMEN in the last,
                    offends our very souls. Is England then incapable of any but a BORRIOBOOLA mission? Is she for ever to prefer making a sort of
                    “Sterne’s Sentimental Journey” into other countries, to fulfilling her duties at
                    home? The foreigners we are so fond of reproving, see with disgust and
                    abhorrence our own method of dealing with certain laws. To them, our mercantile
                    and uncertain speculation of “damages,”—the wonderful indecency of our divorce
                    trials,—the incredible fact that the woman accused is allowed no direct defence,
                    and cannot appear by counsel on such occasions—the loth and reluctant admission
                    (and that of very recent date) of the right of a mother to her infant
                    children,—are alike odious and incomprehensible. I will venture to say that in
                    no country in Europe, is there, in fact, so little protection of
                    women as in England. England the fault?finder; England the universal lecturer;
                    England—where to add to the absurd anomaly of this state of things, the Salique
                    law is considered a barbarism, and offence against a female Sovereign is
                    treason. The contrast between that which we permit, and that which we disallow,
                    borders almost on the burlesque. If Mr Norton, a magistrate and member of the
                    aristocracy, had cheated at a game of cards played by a few idlers in one of the
                    clubs of London, all England would have been in a ferment. Accusers would have
                    risen; friends would have hung their heads; and for the sake of some dandy’s
                    purse, the invocation to justice would have been made in such a stern universal
                    shout, as would have sent an echo through all Europe. Or if I, while visiting
                    foreign lands, had invested myself with the dignity of a self?appointed
                    messenger of God; if I had broken down the fence that guards other men’s
                    consciences, and trespassed there to sow what I considered “the good seed;” if I
                    had forced on reluctant Roman Catholics, tracts of instruction in my own form of
                    faith, and had been arrested for that trespass,—then indeed, I might hope to
                    attract the attention of the Government of my own country, and my case might be
                    warmly advocated at some such meeting as stood
                    advertised in the English newspapers for Nov. 29, 1853, headed, “Persecuting
                    Laws in Portugal, Tuscany, and Malta; the Earl of Shaftesbury in the chair.” But
                    in the English laws which wreck a woman’s whole destiny; in the law which
                    permits the most indecent and atrocious libel against her, without a chance of
                    legal defence,—in the law which countenances and upholds far worse than cheating
                    at cards, and renders null and void a contract signed by a magistrate, because
                    that contract was made with his wife,—in the law which gives a
                    woman’s earnings even by literary copyright, to her husband,—in the whole
                    framework, in short, of those laws by which her existence is merged in the
                    existence of another, (let what will be the circumstances of her
                        case;) and by which Justice in fact divests herself of all control
                    and responsibility in the matter—England sees nothing worthy of remark.
                With what a scornful retort might the nations we undertake to lecture, answer our
                    busy?body meddling! “Protect your own women. Look at home, for instances of
                    tyranny, persecution, and unavailing appeals for justice. Do not trouble
                    yourselves yet, about the denial of social rights to slaves, or those laws of
                    Kentucky which seem in such harmony with your own; do not even pretend to
                    shudder at the disgraceful chastisement inflicted on Austrian women, for what in
                    their land is treason. Come to us when your magistrates do not make a profit of
                    the law they administer; when your aristocracy are not guilty of violence and
                    brutality to their wives, which they excuse by libels in your gazettes; when the
                    daughters of your statesmen do not stand in your courts of law, ignobly baited
                    for asserting just claims. That such things should occur, in your vain?glorious
                    land, may be only a private and individual wrong; but that such things should
                    occur, with impunity,—uncontrolled and unpunished by law,—is no
                    longer a private wrong, but a national disgrace.”
                I shall now give a narrative of my own case, as an example of what can be done
                    under the English law of 1853. If the
                    publication fail to draw any permanent attention to the law itself, at least it
                    will remain a curious record of injustice, in a country especially boastful of
                    its liberal and magnanimous enactments. If the record appear unimportant as the
                    mere history of a woman’s wrongs, it may have interest as involving a passage in
                    the life of one of England’s Prime Ministers.
                I have endeavoured to make the narrative as clear as possible, by dividing into
                    three outlines,—1st, the strange mutual position of Mr Norton and myself with
                    respect to money?matters, both before and after our separation,—2dly, the
                    treatment I received as a wife; taken from the papers submitted at the time to
                    lawyers employed for me—and,—3dly, Lord Melbourne’s opinion of the affairs in
                    which his name was involved; copied word for word from his own letters. I have
                    had that, and all other correspondence, printed in Italics; that the
                    interruptions may be more distinct, and that such persons as are already
                    familiar with some of the letters, may omit them at pleasure and continue the
                    narrative. I have taken counsel of no one; and no one is responsible for the
                    mention of names, or of the part taken by friends in these miserable affairs. If
                    any see cause to regret what I have done, let them blame the LAW. This pamphlet addresses itself, not to private sympathy, but to
                    English justice: it is an attempt to argue the reform which ought to be, from
                    the abuse that has been:—a complaint of the exercise of irresponsible power, to
                    the source of power:—an appeal from THE LAW, as it
                    stands, to the Legislature which frames and alters laws.
                I begin by an explanation of our mutual position as to money?matters; because Mr
                    Norton has brought our disputes to a crisis on a pecuniary claim; because he has
                    falsified the whole history of those matters; and because, from the first, our
                    position in this respect was extraordinary and anomalous; inasmuch as instead of
                    Mr Norton being, either by the exercise of his profession or patrimonial
                    property, what Germans call the “Breadfinder,”
                    it was on my literary talents and the interest of my family, that our support
                    almost entirely depended, while I still had a home.
                Mr Norton has lately spoken (in the fabulous histories he has given to the public
                    through the medium of the newspapers) of the profound and patient attachment he
                    entertained for me previous to our union. I do most solemnly declare that at the
                    time he first demanded me of my mother in marriage, I had not exchanged six
                    sentences with him on any subject whatever. Mr Norton was brother to Lord
                    Grantley; and the governess to whose care I was confided, happening to be sister
                    to Lord Grantley’s agent, the female members of the Norton family, from courtesy
                    to this lady, invited her and such of her pupils as she chose to accompany her,
                    to Lord Grantley’s house. A sister of Mr Norton’s, an eccentric person who
                    affected masculine habits and played a little on the violin, amused herself with
                    my early verses and my love of music, and took more notice of me than of my
                    companions. The occasions on which I saw this lady were not frequent; and still
                    more rare were the occasions on which I had also seen her brother; it was
                    therefore with a feeling of mere astonishment, that I received from my governess
                    the intelligence that she thought it right to refuse me the indulgence of
                    accompanying her again to Lord Grantley’s till she had heard from my mother; as
                    Mr Norton had professed his intention of asking me in marriage. This lady is
                    still living, and can answer for the exact truth of my statement.
                Almost the first step Mr Norton took, after he had made my mother’s acquaintance,
                    was to beg her interest with a member of the royal family, whose good word with
                    the Chancellor Eldon was to procure him a small legal appointment; and from the
                    day we were married he never ceased impressing upon me, that as I brought him no
                    present fortune (my portion being only payable on my mother’s death), I was
                    bound to use every effort with the political friends of my grandfather, to get him lucrative promotion in his
                    profession. I found this more difficult than I expected. The memory of Mr
                    Sheridan among the Whig party, was not held in that affection which in my
                    inexperience I had fancied; and if it had been, I do not know that it would have
                    been a sufficient plea for serving Mr Norton, who could put forward no personal
                    claims for employment. I did, however, what my husband requested. I besieged,
                    with variously worded letters of importunity, the friends whom I knew as the
                    great names linked with the career of my grandfather; and while waiting the
                    result of the petitions I had sown on so wide a field, I turned my literary
                    ability to account, by selling the copyright of my first poem to Messrs Ebers of
                    Bond street. It is not without a certain degree of romantic pride that I look
                    back and know that the first expenses of my son’s life were defrayed from the
                    price of that first creation of my brain; and before that child was two years
                    old, I had procured for my husband,—(for the husband who has lately overwhelmed
                    me, my sons, and his dead patron with slander, rather than yield a miserable
                    annuity)—a place worth a thousand a year; the arduous duty of which consisted in
                    attending three days in the week, for five hours, to hear causes tried in the
                    simplest forms of law. From that day to the present, my husband has always
                    considered that I ought to assist him—instead of his supporting
                        me. The dependance upon my literary efforts for all extra
                    resources, runs, as a matter of course, through all the letters I received from
                    him during our union. The names of my publishers occur as if they were Mr
                    Norton’s bankers. If Murray of Albemarle street will not accept a poem,—if Bull
                    of Holles street does not continue a magazine,—if Heath does not offer the
                    editorship of an Annual,—if Saunders and Otley do not buy the 
                        MS.
                        manuscript
                     of a novel,—if Colburn’s agreement is not satisfactory and
                    sufficient,—if Power delays payment for a set of ballads,—if, in short, the
                        WIFE has no earnings to produce, the HUSBAND professes himself to be “quite at a loss to know” how the next difficulty of payment is to be got over.
                    On one occasion, when I had been employed to write words to Spanish music, by an
                    officer of some distinction, and was extremely loth to express to this gentleman
                    the opinion Mr Norton wished conveyed to him,—namely, that payment was too long
                    delayed,—Mr Norton himself undertook the task of dunning him, for the stipulated
                    sum by which he was to profit. I worked hard, and was proud of my
                    success. I brought to my many tasks all the energy which youth, high spirits,
                    ambition, good health, and the triumph of usefulness could inspire; joined to a
                    wish for literary fame, so eager, that I sometimes look back and wonder if I was
                    punished for it by unenviable and additional notoriety.
                I believe that Foreigners,—and even our own mercantile classes,—have little idea
                    of the very narrow provision which the usual “Right of the Eldest Son” leaves
                    for the younger members of noble English houses. The rule is excellent, as a
                    means of perpetuating a powerful and wealthy Aristocracy; the Chief never being
                    impoverished by that perpetual subdivision which takes place in other countries.
                    But one result is, that the younger brothers and sons of Peers, (the habits of
                    whose childhood and youth naturally were to enjoy an equality of luxury with the
                    Heir,) are often embarrassed by the slenderness of their means: and this was our
                    case. Luckily for me, light serial literature was the express fashion of the
                    day. Nor did the greatest authors we had, disdain to contribute their share to
                    the ephemeral ‘Annuals’ and Periodicals, which formed the staple commodity of
                    the book?sellers at that time.
                I rejoiced, then, at finding,—woman though I was,—a career in which
                        I could earn that which my husband’s profession had never
                    brought him. Out of our stormy quarrels I rose undiscouraged, and worked again
                    to help him and forward the interests of my children. I have sat up all
                    night,—even at times when I have had a young infant to nurse,—to finish tasks
                        for some publisher. I made in one year a
                    sum of 1,400
                        l.
                        pound
                     by my pen; and I have a letter from Mr Norton’s own brother, proving
                    that even when we were on terms of estrangement, I still provided, without
                    grudging, money that was to be spent on his pleasures.
                As time went on, Mr Norton, still unsatisfied, urged upon me the task of
                    obtaining for him something more valuable than his magistracy, and of which the
                    duties should be more agreeable. The petitioning recommenced; Lord Lyndhurst
                    became Chancellor, and the hope of a legal appointment was again indulged.
                    Nothing however was yet obtained, when a woman, to whose interference about my
                    children our final quarrel was owing, began to rule entirely in my home. She has
                    since left Mr Norton two thousand a year; and he openly entreated my patience
                    with her, on account of her money. Lord Melbourne, for whose interest we had
                    again applied, showed great reluctance to use it on Mr Norton’s behalf; and had
                    already expressed, in no measured terms, his regret at having made the former
                    appointment. Undaunted by this fact, Mr Norton merely observed that if Lord
                    Melbourne would not obtain a place, he could privately oblige him;
                    and he applied accordingly to the patron he has lately reviled, for the loan of 1,500
                        l
                        pound
                    .
                Mr Norton considered that this loan was declined. Lord Melbourne told me that he
                    merely demurred, as he doubted whether in reality it would be a
                        loan. The condition of our affairs was not exactly known to me
                    until that time; though the irritation arising from non?success, was visited
                    upon me. One of the bitter quarrels which blighted our home arose. Its record
                    will be found with others; the present outline being confined to pecuniary
                    matters. After that quarrel was made up, and I had returned to Mr Norton, he
                    entered more fully upon a statement of his affairs; urging upon me most
                    strenuously, to endeavour, as I had done before, to assist him, either by
                    getting a more lucrative appointment or a loan of money. I expressed my
                    astonishment that his own patrimonial resources never seemed to yield us anything; and received the information that
                    there were no proceeds forthcoming from the hereditary estates. I doubted the
                    correctness of this assertion; but wrote the very unwelcome intelligence, both
                    to my mother and to one of the trustees of my marriage settlement. From my
                    mother I received a letter containing the following passage:—
                
                    “Hampton Court Palace.
                    “Nothing could be more painful and surprising to me, than your statement of
                        Norton’s money?affairs. Had not D.K. vouched for the respectability of Mr
                        P., and consequently for the fidelity of his statement of the property
                        destined for the younger brothers and sisters of Lord Grantley, I never
                        should have suffered you to marry N. He (Mr P.) distinctly stated that
                        property to be land, to the value of 30,000
                            l.
                            pound
                        , and if I get his direction from you, I will expostulate with him
                        on the monstrous untruth then advanced; which may perhaps induce him, in his
                        own vindication, to show how you have been cheated; which it is evident you
                        have been. If Charles and James Norton join you, this affair might be
                        cleared a little, and it is a manifest duty that you should exert yourself,
                        for your poor CHILDREN.”
                
                Exert myself, God knows I did; both to understand, and to avert, the
                    mismanagement (or worse) that was taking place. The letter I addressed to my
                    trustee, produced the following reply.
                
                    
                        “31st August, 1835.
                    
                    “As I was on the point of leaving London, Norton applied to me for my consent
                        to raise a portion of the trust fund and to place the principal at his
                        disposal. I told him I could do nothing of this kind without legal advice,
                        and I could give no consent without the previous sanction of my solicitors.
                        About a fortnight ago he applied to me to sign an order on Coutts and Co.
                        with reference to this same trust fund. I returned it unexecuted, to await
                        the sanction of those in whose legal advice
                        I could confide. Your statement of the present circumstances of the case,
                        proves the precaution to have been necessary. As relates to Norton’s power
                        of raising money, he is clearly restrained by the terms of his own marriage
                        settlement; and no personal debts of his, incurred subsequently to that
                        settlement, can defeat rights which were vested by it; in other words, his
                            CHILDREN have a better claim than his creditors
                        to the principal sum secured under his marriage settlement.”
                
                I beg attention to the date of these letters; which were written but six months
                    before our final separation, followed by the trial, attributed to Lord Melbourne
                    (as will be seen in his correspondence) to another pecuniary endeavour on Mr
                    Norton’s part. I was already mother of three children, and it must be confessed
                    that our prospects were rendered discouraging by the extreme reluctance of
                    powerful friends to do anything more for Mr Norton; and by the total and
                    scornful alienation from him of all the male members of my family. I explained
                    our position very fully to one of the kindest friends I had,—the Right
                    Honourable Edward Ellice; and he drew out a paper of conditions, in which it was
                    expressly stipulated, that, if the difficulties in which Mr Norton found himself
                    could be lightened, and any arrangement come to, our current income in future,
                    and the whole management of our affairs, should be left in my
                    hands; a stipulation significant enough as to Mr Norton’s conduct in
                    money?matters.
                Our separation took place a few months after these discussions. Mr Norton did not
                    at first speculate on divorcing me; he notified to me that my family might
                    support me, or that I might write for my bread; and that my children were by law
                    at his sole disposal. Colonel Leicester Stanhope (now Earl of Harrington), who
                    was commissioned, as a mutual friend, to announce this determination, appended
                    to it the following comment:—“N.’s proposal about your income
                        is too bad, too shabby, too mean, too base; he grafts you on your
                        brother.” And the trustee I had previously consulted, observed;—“The proposi? tions (which I
                        return) are no less absurd than contemptible; and you could not hesitate one
                        instant in rejecting them. They must think you have lost your brains, when
                        they call on you to subsist by them, if they think you are fool enough to be
                        gulled or bullied into such terms.” Mr Norton, however, soon proved what
                    measures are at an English husband’s disposal, whose wife demurs to any terms he
                    chooses to impose. Those who saw their own advantage in our quarrel, advised him
                    to make Lord Melbourne an object of attack; and under our mercantile law of
                    “Damages,” Mr Norton saw his advantage in adopting the suggestion.
                    Lord Erskine, in one of his divorce cases, had obtained a verdict of 7,000
                        l.
                        pound
                    ; (a sum which, in that particular case, was said to involve the whole
                    fortune of the defendant) and Sir W. Follett did his best to emulate Lord
                    Erskine, in urging this main object on the jury. He repeated, in every form, his
                    argument for aggravated compensation to his client. Sometimes he put it as a
                    simple and inevitable legal result,—“If you are satisfied (as
                        satisfied I think you must be, of the facts stated), it remains for you to
                        consider what DAMAGES you will give.” Sometimes
                    with a skilful and business?like allusion to the wealth which made a large sum a
                    natural and proper award,—“Of course,” he says, “Of course, the
                        position of the parties in this case, the rank of one of the parties, and
                        the mode in which they lived being considered, it is for you, Gentlemen,
                        under all circumstances, to say what may appear to you a proper amount of
                            DAMAGES.” Sometimes, as an evidence of the
                    wrongs sustained, and the degree of that wrong,—“The amount of
                            DAMAGES,—though not as a personal
                        compensation,—must be considered in the result.” Sometimes, as an appeal
                    to the passions and sympathies of the jurymen; saying of Lord Melbourne,—“His rank is an aggravation—his age is an aggravation—and the
                        hollow pretence of his being a friend of the plaintiff, is a still greater
                        aggravation.... It is then for you to say what DAMAGES you will give.” Sometimes, with a sort of admonition
                    to the jury to prove their own strictness of
                    principle, by the amount of the penalty enforced,—“I call upon
                        you to mark by your verdict,—in the only way in which the law allows,—your
                        sense of the conduct of the defendant.” Nothing was omitted to be urged
                    that could be urged, on this point; and no doubt,—if the accusation had been
                    believed,—very heavy damages would have been awarded; but the jury pronounced
                    against Mr Norton, without even retiring to discuss their verdict, and the
                    speculation failed; both as regarded political and pecuniary interests.
                When the woman died, to whom my children had been sent, Mr Norton proposed to me
                    to “forgive” the public trial, and return to him. After that, he proposed we
                    should submit to referees; to whom he have a written promise that he would be
                    abide by their decisions, and then refused to bound. Then he advertised me as a
                    run?away in the public papers; and he has, I believe, the unenviable distinction
                    of being the only English gentleman who ever resorted to such an expedient; on
                    which even my solicitor remarked: “There are few men in Mr
                        Norton’s rank of life, or in stations under it, who will not know what to
                        think of the measure.” For two years I remained without one farthing of
                    support from the husband who had owed to me the greater portion of his income.
                    He then made what compulsory allowance he pleased; till in the year 1848, being
                    desirous of employing the trust?fund settled on me and my children, in improving
                    the estate left him by the woman to whom he first sacrificed us, he entered into
                    the written contract with me, to which I have already alluded. The history of
                    the breach of that contract will be found in my general narration, and I here
                    close that portion which relates exclusively to pecuniary matters.
                The treatment that I received as a Wife, would be incredible if, fortunately (or
                    unfortunately), there were not witnesses who can prove it on oath. We had been
                    married but a few weeks when I found that a
                    part of my lot was that which generally belongs to a lower sphere—and that, when
                    angry, Mr Norton resorted to personal violence.
                After our honeymoon, we lived for a short time in chambers Mr Norton had occupied
                    as a bachelor; in Garden Court, Temple; and, on the first occasion of dispute,
                    after some high and violent words, he flung the ink?stand, and most of the
                    law?books, which might have served a better purpose, at the head of his bride.
                    We had no servants, only an old woman, who had taken care of these chambers for
                    some years, and who offered me the acceptable consolation, that her master was
                    not “sober”,—and would regret it “by?and?bye.”
                After this happy beginning I accompanied my husband to Scotland. We had been
                    married about two months, when, one evening, after we had all withdrawn to our
                    apartments, we were discussing some opinion he had expressed; I said, (very
                    uncivilly,) that “I thought I had never heard so silly or ridiculous a
                    conclusion.” This remark was punished by a sudden and violent kick; the blow
                    reached my side; it caused great pain for many days, and being afraid to remain
                    with him, I sat up the whole night in another apartment.
                Four or five months afterwards, when we were settled in London, we had returned
                    home from a ball; I had then no personal dispute with Mr Norton, but he indulged
                    in bitter and coarse remarks respecting a young relative of mine, who, though
                    married, continued to dance,—a practice, Mr Norton said, no husband ought to
                    permit. I defended the lady spoken of, and then stood silently looking out of
                    the window at the quiet light of dawn, by way of contrast. Mr Norton desired I
                    would “cease my contemplations,” and retire to rest, as he had already done; and
                    this mandate producing no result, he suddenly sprang from the bed, seized me by
                    the nape of the neck, and dashed me down on the floor. The sound of my fall woke
                    my sister and brother?in?law, who slept in a room below, and they ran up to my
                    door. Mr Norton locked it, and stood over me,
                    declaring no one should enter. I could not speak,—I only moaned. My
                    brother?in?law burst the door open, and carried me down stairs. I had a swelling
                    on my head for many days afterward, and the shock made my sister exceedingly
                    ill.
                On another occasion, when I was writing to my mother, Mr Norton (who was sipping
                    spirits and water, while he smoked his cigar) said he was sure “from the
                    expression of my countenance,” that I was “complaining.” I answered that “I
                    seldom could do anything else.” Irritated by the reply, Mr Norton said I should
                    not write at all, and tore the letter up. I took another sheet of paper, and
                    recommenced. After watching and smoking for a few minutes, he rose, took one of
                    the allumettes I had placed for his cigar, lit it, poured some of the spirits
                    that stood by him over my writing book, and, in a moment, set the whole in a
                    blaze. But Mr Norton vouchsafed no other notice of my alarm, than that it would
                    “teach me not to brave him.”
                On another occasion, some time before the birth of my youngest son, I being at
                    breakfast, and my eldest child playing about the room, Mr Norton entered; he
                    desired me to rise and leave the place I was sitting in, as it faced the park,
                    and it amused him to see the people pass by. I demurred, and said I was not
                    well, and that he should have come down earlier if he had any fancy or choice
                    about places. We had no other word of dispute. Mr Norton then deliberately took
                    the tea?kettle, and set it down upon my hand; I started up from the pain, and
                    was both burnt and scalded. I ran up to the nursery, and the nurse got the
                    surgeon who lived next door to come in and dress my hand, which remained bound
                    up and useless for days. When this was over, I enquired where Mr Norton was? and
                    received for reply, that after I had been hurt, he had simply desired the
                    servant to “brush the crumbs away,” in the place he had desired me to yield; had
                    then sat down there and breakfasted; and had since gone out—without one word of
                    apology or enquiry.
                
                About the same period, a dispute having arisen after dinner, I said I really was
                    weary of my life with the perpetual wranglings; that I had a great deal to do,
                    and would sit no longer with him, but go to the drawing?room and write for a
                    Periodical, of which I then had the editorship; that I only asked him to stay
                    where he was, and smoke there, instead of upstairs. He answered, that the house
                    was his,—not mine;—that he should sit in what room he pleased; and that I should
                    find I could not carry things with such a high hand as I desired to do. I left
                    him; called my maid, desired her to bring her work and remain in the room, as I
                    did not feel well, and locking the door of the drawing?room for further
                    security, prepared to write. Mr Norton came and demanded admittance. I refused,
                    and said I was undressing. After repeating his demand, and saying, if the door
                    was not instantly opened he would break it open, he was as good as his word. He
                    forced in the door, forcing away the framework with it, and rushed forward. He
                    stopped short on seeing my maid, and desired her instantly to leave the room. I
                    said she must stay, for I was afraid of being left alone with him. Mr Norton
                    then gave way to the most frantic rage, blew out the candles, flung the
                    furniture about, and seized my maid to turn her out of the room by force. I
                    clung to her, and being extremely frightened, and naturally at that time less
                    strong than usual, I became very faint, and some of the other servants entering,
                    Mr Norton desisted. He then lighted a taper, examined the door, asked where the
                    carpenter lived, and left the room. I thought the worst was over; but I was
                    mistaken. Mr Norton returned almost immediately, and seizing me, forced me out
                    of the room and down on the stairs. I really feared for my life; I shrieked for
                    help, and said I was sure Mr Norton was “gone mad.” The man?servant held back
                    his arm while he was struggling with the maid, who was terrified to death,—and
                    at length, assisted by the servants, I retired once again to the nursery, and
                    slept with the nurse; leaving Mr Norton master of the room he had broken into, and my literary tasks and
                    the furniture scattered over the ground.
                I intended to have left my home in the morning; but when morning came, I was too
                    ill. I saw no more of Mr Norton till the evening of that day. I was sitting with
                    my two little children in the same room. He did not speak to me,—he spoke to one
                    of the children and went away again. I had written to my brother to state all
                    that had occurred. I said that for the sake of those children and the one
                    unborn, I should be loth to part from my husband; that I bore him no ill?will,
                    but that unless he would undertake to be “gentlemanlike” in his conduct towards
                    me, I must leave him. My brother forwarded a copy of my statement to my
                    husband,—told him there could be but one opinion of his cruel and violent
                    assault, and that unless he received, within twenty?four hours, a written
                    expression of contrition and promises for the future, he would expose Mr Norton.
                    To that letter I owe the miserable satisfaction of holding, under Mr Norton’s
                    own handwriting, proof of every circumstance of this scene; for he undertook to
                    justify himself to my brother; he admitted all the facts; he admitted that I had
                    withdrawn to write for my publishers, and had told him so, but said he broke
                    open the door “on principle; thinking it necessary, as a husband, to resist such
                    extravagant and disrespectful proceedings” as locking him out of any room in the
                    house. That he blew out the candles to prevent my maid remaining and working in
                    the apartment; and that I had not seemed at all angry when I left him in the
                    dining?room. Recently, Mr Norton has spoken of this scene in one of his letters
                    to the ‘Times’ newspaper, as a “frivolous quarrel.” I leave
                    to others to determine what the notions of general conduct towards a woman were
                    likely to be, in the person whose idea of “frivolous” disputes are thus
                    exemplified. My brother’s interference availed, however, for that time. Mr
                    Norton apologised, adjured me to pardon him, and wrote triumphantly to my
                    brother to say that we “were all right again,”
                    and that he hoped my brother also would “forget and forgive.”
                On occasions that really were “frivolous,” he was not less
                    tyrannical. His sister came to stay with us for three or four months, in London;
                    and he notified me that I should go nowhere unless she was invited with us. I
                    pleaded that her eccentricities prevented my friends from inviting her; that she
                    was dressed differently from other ladies; wearing a sort of Bloomer costume, a
                    short dress with trowsers, and her hair cropped like a man’s; and altogether
                    affected masculine singularities, which astonished and repelled persons who had
                    the usual habits of society. Mr Norton, however, held firm to his determination,
                    and declared he would sooner “cut the traces of the carriage” than allow me to
                    go without her.
                The year after the scene of breaking open the door, my sisters, brother?in?law,
                    and brother, planned a tour in Germany, and I was very anxious to be of the
                    party. Mr Norton consented, provided that I would defray the expense of the
                    tour. I provided for it, by an agreement with Messrs. Saunders and Otley, for a
                    novel called “The Wife and Woman’s Reward,” and we set out and joined my family
                    at Antwerp. We proceeded, however, no farther than Aix la Chapelle, where Mr
                    Norton became ill with a lameness which made him unwilling to travel, and the
                    others went on without us. I defy any wife to have shown more unselfish or
                    devoted attention to a husband, than I did to Mr Norton under these
                    circumstances, although assured that there was not the slightest cause for
                    anxiety in his indisposition. We were without servants,—the courier and lady’s
                    maid having accompanied the main party. Mr Norton would scarcely permit any
                    attendance from the domestics of the hotel,—he spoke no foreign language, and
                    the misunderstandings irritated him. I combined therefore in my own person, by
                    his desire, the functions of sick?nurse, valet, and chambermaid. I solemnly
                    declare that there was no task, however menial or laborious, that I was not
                    expected to per? form, and did not perform. I
                    was never allowed to go out, even for a walk. I was permitted, occasionally, to
                    dine at the table d’hôte; and sent for, more than once, in the midst of my
                    dinner, to be told that the meal was inconceivably long; or to be desired to put
                    leeches that had been used, into fresh water. More than one person in the hotel
                    expressed doubts as to my being really Mr Norton’s wife, in consequence of his
                    strange treatment of me; and, at length, after some explanations with me, the
                    German doctor volunteered to remonstrate with my husband. He told him that I was
                    ill from over?exertion and want of fresh air; that some of the tasks imposed
                    upon me were not only too fatiguing but positively injurious; he advised Mr
                    Norton to employ a “garçon des bains” to wait on him instead of me, and asked
                    permission for me to visit his wife and sister, and walk with them. I wrote to
                    “complain,” as usual, to my family, and my brother came back to me. It will
                    scarcely be believed that after all this, I having, as I have stated, acted as
                    Mr Norton’s servant; having defrayed the whole expence of the dreary residence
                    with was substituted for our tour; and being quite ill and worn out at last,
                    with the way in which my days had passed; he took the first opportunity of again
                    resorting to personal violence. I objected to his smoking in our little
                    travelling carriage, especially as he smoked a hookah. I was irritated and
                    suffocated by the volume of tobacco in so confined a space. I begged Mr Norton
                    several times to wait till we arrived at the hotel. He did not answer or desist.
                    At length I impatiently snatched at the pipe, and flung the mouth?piece out of
                    the window. The carriage was then slowly ascending a hill, and Mr Norton
                    alighted and recovered the missing portion of the pipe. He then seized me by the
                    throat, and pinned me back with a fierce oath against the hood of the carriage.
                    I thought then, and I think now, that I should have been strangled in a minute
                    or two more, but that I struggled from his grasp, and without even attempting to
                    have the carriage stopped, slipped down through
                    the door, (which he had not closed,) into the road. I ran after the other
                    carriages, and entreated with some one of my family to travel with us to protect
                    me, which was accordingly done. The marks of his fingers were in bruises on my
                    throat; and from the date of this foreign tour there existed an alienation from
                    my husband on the part of my family, which his subsequent conduct completed.
                Early in the ensuing summer, the quarrel, which divided him from
                        them for ever, took place. On this occasion I left Mr Norton,
                    and withdrew to the house of my brother?in?law; and my husband desiring my
                    return, my brother sent a friend to arrange conditions for that return, in
                    writing, stating that till that was done he refused to enter into any
                    correspondence whatever with Mr Norton, nor was it to be thought that any
                    brother would permit his sister to receive the treatment I did. I was warned and
                    earnestly advised not to go back, after all that had occurred; and
                    if I had taken that advice,—if I had had more resolution and less credulity,—I
                    should not now be summing up the evidence of seventeen years of torment, sorrow,
                    and shame. But it would not have suited Mr Norton so to let me escape. He gave
                    the written pledge of good treatment to the friend my brother had sent. He said
                    he was willing to “make any sacrifice, provided I returned to my home.” He wrote
                    to me, entreating me not to let others divide us. He wrote to my family in the
                    extremest and most exaggerated terms of submission. He said he was glad they had
                    avenged me and scorned him, and he vowed to treat me kindly for the future.
                To me, his letters were couched in terms of the most passionate adjuration for
                    pity and forgiveness. They were letters it was impossible to read without being
                    touched—they were letters which drew me home again, in spite of past deceiving,
                    past broken promises, past ill?usage—in spite of the advice to “hold firm,” and
                    not return, which I received from almost every friend I had. I was safe; I was
                    out of his power: my reputation was unsullied.
                    I was with my sister; and I returned, in answer to his imploring prayers, only
                    to be rewarded with attempted ruin and disgrace! He said “no words could prove
                    his remorse.” He said, “As there is a God above us, who will judge our actions,
                    I think I have a right to ask you to trust to me for the future. If I cannot
                    make you happy, let us then quietly and rationally separate, I declaring to the
                    world that the cause of it was not any imputation on you.” He implored me by all
                    that was dear and holy to grant a “complete” forgiveness—a “real” pardon—to
                    write it the moment I had read his letter—to seal and send it by the post, and
                    not let anyone see it, for fear they should advise against it. He said, “You
                    shall never repent of this; you shall not—you shall not.” He adjured me not to
                    “crush” him, and he ended his letter with the words, “I go on my knees to you!
                    Have pity—have compassion on me!” I answered him: I pitied him: I went back to
                    him: I believed then that he really repented, and grieved to lose me; I am
                    convinced now, that it was part of a scheme: of a determination, at least, that
                    if we were to part, he would make me rue the day on my own account. After my
                    return, he treated me as he had done before. As to the conditions, they were
                    broken before I had been two days in my home: and during a very severe illness
                    which followed the agitation and misery to which I had been exposed, and in
                    which I prematurely lost my infant, he behaved with the utmost harshness and
                    neglect, leaving me to be nursed by my brother, and refusing to be answerable
                    for the expenses incurred. Scarce a month after his last penitent and touching
                    letter to me, my brother was again compelled to remind him that he appeared to
                    have forgotten the reasons that made “interference on my behalf a duty,” and
                    that totally prevented his presuming to question the authority by which my
                    brother interfered. This was in August, 1835. Things were fast driving to ruin.
                    My family remained on the most formal and distant terms with Mr Norton, the male
                        members of it scarcely acknowledging his
                    acquaintance. I can call them to witness that, after our reconciliation, I
                    pleaded for him; but it was not only on my account, that they chose
                    to withdraw from his intimacy. I saw less of him than usual during the few
                    months that intervened before our final separation. He went alone for the
                    shooting season to Scotland, as I was not well enough to travel, and after his
                    return he spent nearly all the time he could command with Miss Vaughan, through
                    whom he hoped at least to right the disorder in his pecuniary affairs. Lord
                    Melbourne declined to make any attempt to obtain a better appointment than the
                    one he had already bestowed, and while I was with my sister in the country,
                    wrote to complain of a strange attempt on Mr Norton’s part to interfere with the
                    appointment of another magistrate (in which I afterwards found he was to have a
                    personal advantage). I returned to town when matters were in this condition; my
                    stay there was to have been brief, for I had settled to pass the Easter with my
                    children at my brother’s house in Dorsetshire. I was then on perfectly friendly
                    terms Mr Norton, in spite of his discontent in other matters. He had written me
                    coaxing and flattering letters, urging me to try, both with Lord Melbourne and
                    Lord John Russell, to get this appointment given to his friend, and praising
                    Lord M.’s “kindness on all occasions.” He never opposed in any way my plans for
                    the Easter, but, on the contrary, urged me, now we were friends, to over?rule my
                    brother’s objections to receive him, and get him also invited—in which attempt I
                    did not succeed. On the day previous to that on which I was to leave town, I
                    returned from my drive, and found Miss Vaughan had called in my absence, and
                    remained closeted with my husband for some time. Lord Melbourne was with him
                    when I came in, and they were talking together. After Lord M. left, Mr Norton
                    talked discontentedly of the appointment, and angrily of my not getting that and
                    pecuniary interests arranged for him. He also said Miss Vaughan had told him, if
                    he himself was not noticed by my brother, he
                    ought not to submit to my going to his house with my children. I said nothing
                    should prevent my going to my brother; that it was Mr Norton’s own fault he was
                    not on terms with my family; that the doctor had ordered change of air for the
                    elder child, who was recovering from scarlatina; and that I should give my
                    servants orders to refuse Miss Vaughan admittance to my house, as she laboured
                    always for mischief, in spite of my patience with her. We parted angrily—Mr
                    Norton to dine with the chief magistrate, Sir Frederic Roe, and I to dine with
                    Lady Mary Fox. We spent the evening together at a party at Lord Harrington’s,
                    and returned home together. The dispute was then renewed, whether under the
                    circumstances I should go to my brother’s. Mr Norton’s last words were—“Well,
                    the children shall not, that I have determined;” and as he entered the house he
                    desired the servants to unpack the carriage (which had been prepared for
                    starting), and take the children’s things out, for that they were not going. He
                    then went up to the nursery, and repeated the order to the nurse. It was
                    admitted at the trial that the sole observation I made on this occasion, when
                    the nurse asked me “what she was to do?” was, that “Mr Norton’s
                        orders must be obeyed.” I neither braved him with useless words, nor
                    complained. I waited till the morning, and then went to my sister’s, to consult
                    with her what was to be done.
                While I was with my sister, my children were kidnapped and taken possession of by
                    Miss Vaughan; as I doubt not had been agreed upon the day before. The
                    man?servant came to my sister, and said “something was going wrong at home;”
                    that the children, with their things, had been put into a hackney?coach and
                    taken away, he did not know where. I had the children traced to Miss Vaughan’s
                    house, and followed them. Anything like the bitter insolence of this woman—who
                    thought she had baffled and conquered me for life—I never experienced. She gave
                    vent to the most violent and indecent answers
                    to my reproaches, and said that if I troubled her further she would give me into
                    the hands of the police. I left her, and went alone to my brother’s house in the
                    country. I wished him to return immediately to town with me; and so far from
                    having intended, previous to this outrage, to leave my home, or having made any
                    preparation whatever for such an event, I left everything that belonged to me
                    (even my wearing apparel) in Mr Norton’s house; and he, who afterwards
                    advertised me as a run?away, though it so probable that I should reappear next
                    day with my brother, that he gave this order in writing to the man?servant,
                    dated the morning after my departure:—
                
                    “In case Mrs Norton or her brother should return to town, and call at
                        Storey’s Gate, this is my written authority to you, to refuse admittance,
                        and to open the house?door only with the chain across.”
                    “G.C. Norton.”
                
                It was thought best that I should not return, and I therefore
                    escaped the disgraceful reception with the chain across the door of my home,
                    which my husband had prepared for me. I wrote to Mr Norton’s mother, to inform
                    her of what had occurred, and to say that I must part from him; and Mr Norton,
                    on his side, requested Lord Harrington to write to my family to say he would
                    part from me,—but make no provision for me,—nor suffer me to have my children. I
                    did not, at first, know that a mother had no legal claim to her children, and I
                    answered by defying this injustice. My mother, my brother, and my
                    brother?in?law, also wrote to Lord Harrington, explaining to him the truth, and
                    disclosing to him,—with very severe comments on Mr Norton’s character,—the
                    circumstances of our former disputes. Lord Harrington communicated to Mr Norton
                    the substance of these replies (which contained proofs, extracted from Mr
                    Norton’s own letters), and told him that I utterly refused to accede to his
                    terms. Mr Norton then said he would not part from me quietly, but endeavour
                    publicly to disgrace me; that he had put the affair in the hands of lawyers, pledged himself not to interfere, and was
                    not allowed to mention what they thought of doing; that my family had conspired
                    against him, and they should maintain me; that he was occupied with enquiries
                    into my conduct towards my male acquaintance in general, and would “try for a
                    divorce,” if a case could be made out.
                In one of the attempts to “make out” a case, Mr Norton resorted to the strange
                        ruse of engaging the cab?boy of the gentleman he desired to
                    entrap, and sending the lad to try and get his master’s letters from the Club;
                    and act of which Lord Harrington observed, that “if attempted
                        at the Post?office, it would have been felony.”
                Having reported to Lord Harrington all that could be said to my detriment, Lord
                    H. wrote to Mr Norton as follows: —
                
                    “I have told Mrs N. all the base calumnies uttered against her. I will do the
                        same by you. They say that you kept a mistress. They say that you wanted to
                        borrow 1400
                            l.
                            pound
                         from Lord Melbourne; that you accepted favors from Lord ——, after
                        professing jealousy of him. That you pledged your word of honour to a
                        falsehood. That your wife made by her writings a sum more than sufficient to
                        pay all your debts. That you have yourself denied her to visitors, and even
                        to members of her own family, when Lord Melbourne has been with her. That
                        you have often used personal violence to your wife. Unless you can disprove
                        these accusations, you are lost in the estimation of the world. ”
                
                Lord Harrington then wrote to me as follows:—
                
                    “I called next day. I was received by a Mr Maclean; a lawyer and friend. Mr
                        Maclean said, it was agreed that Norton should see no one. I talked over
                        these ‘accusations’ with Mr M. I challenged him to answer them. He said,
                        ‘This is not the time, and you are not the person.’ I said, ‘You cannot
                        answer them.’ I wrote afterwards to Norton as follows:— ‘I now see clearly
                        that you are surrounded by a clique of
                        lawyers and friends, and under their influence, who keep your person and
                        your mind imprisoned. Put your jailors to the test. Let them answer the
                        accusations in my letter, and let them answer this additional charge. You
                        are accused (not by me) of having intended to procure a Magistracy for a
                        gentleman for a compensation in money. Ask your lawyers and the friends who
                        influence them, if this charge were proved, whether you would be allowed to
                        sit on the judgment seat.’
                    “L.S.”
                
                To these adjurations Lord Harrington received no more satisfactory reply from Mr
                    Norton than the following careless allusion in a letter on the general subject
                    of our quarrel.
                
                    “As regards the ‘on dits,’ stated in yours, this does not appear to be the
                        time to enter upon that refutation of them which I would otherwise court an
                        opportunity of obtaining.
                    Ever yours,
                    April 14th, 1836 G.C. Norton.”
                
                Mr Norton did not, however, seem to build with certainty on the chance of
                    refutation, for his next step was to request an interview with Sir James Graham
                    (who was related to me by my mother’s side), and inform him that he admitted his
                    lawyers could prove nothing amiss in my conduct, and that, therefore, he was
                    willing to come to such terms of separation as could be agreed upon. Sir James
                    Graham demanded, as a preliminary to all negotiations, a written
                        retraction of the slanders against me. What was Mr Norton’s reply?
                    that he believed them? No: but that “if he retracted what was
                        said of me, would my family contradict what was said of him, as otherwise he
                        would be left in his wife’s power?”
                Sir James Graham would not discuss this condition, but left Mr Norton to his
                    reflections, promising to see him again. The painful scandal was supposed to be
                    ended, and Lord Harrington wrote thus to congratulate me:—
                
                
                    “22nd April, 1836.
                    ”Thank God your persecutors have terminated their labours. Their object was
                        not truth or justice; not to examine into your character, but solely to
                        criminate you. It has ended in your honour and their disgrace. N.’s conduct
                        is really disreputable; but far less so than those who have hunted him on.
                        “
                
                Most premature were these congratulations! At the very time when Mr Norton was
                    angrily wavering between the dread of exposure for himself, and the desire of
                    vengeance, certain personages, who saw in our quarrel an opportunity for a
                    stroke in politics, persuaded him to attack Lord Melbourne.
                I know Mr Norton has denied that he was thus advised; especially by his friend
                    and guardian Lord Wynford. I know that he made the incredible assertion, that
                    his sole advisor was a stable?helper, whom he himself had formerly discharged
                    for drunkenness, and who was, at the time of this quarrel, a rag?seller in
                    Monmouth street; that this man suddenly appeared, and told him a gross and
                    strange story, on the strength of which he made up his mind to persecute the
                    Prime Minister of England. Let those believe this history who can; it is
                    certainly possible that all that was said of the interference of
                    political leaders, was as false as what they said of me; but, meanwhile, I know
                    that the late King considered it a political plot; that Lord Melbourne himself
                    thought so; that some of the witnesses affirmed they had been examined in Lord
                    Wynford’s house; and that, at all events, the impression of some such
                    interference obtained sufficiently to make the Duke of Cumberland anxious to
                    deny it on behalf of the Tory party, as Lord Melbourne’s letters will prove. In
                    the preceding year the Whigs had been turned out; Sir Robert Peel had been sent
                    for in all haste, from Italy, to form a Tory administration; and the new
                    Government had been immediately outvoted on Lord John Russell’s Church
                    Temporalities Bill. In May, Lord Melbourne reconstructed a Whig cabinet, and the Ministry of a moment found
                    themselves again in the ranks of the opposition; an opposition notoriously in
                    possession of the sympathy of the Court. In the letters lately published by Mr
                    Norton, he has himself branded the conduct of the case got up against the
                    unwelcome Whig Minister, by revealing the minutes of his own lawyer’s
                    consultation with Sir William Follett. By these minutes it is shown, that Sir
                    W.F. considered the character of the witnesses so bad, that he doubted the
                    probability of a verdict being obtained, but that, nevertheless, they thought it
                    worth while to proceed at all hazards, for the sake of the
                    exposure. It is made perfectly clear that some of those concerned in this
                    business, were careless what might be the result, so long as there was an
                    overwhelming public scandal; and as to Mr Norton himself, his conduct was
                    infinitely less rash and unreasonable than the event would make it appear; since
                    he has over and over again admitted, that he had a secret reliance the case
                        would not be defended at all. He,—who alone knew how miserable
                    my home had been,—how often I had threatened to leave him,—how but a very few
                    months before, I had put that threat into execution by withdrawing to my
                    sister’s house, and had only been lured home again, by his exaggerated
                    protestations of repentance and despair,—he believed, that I would
                    not unwillingly renounce that bitter union, and existence of personal struggle,
                    to become the wife of Lord Melbourne. He thought he saw a golden path out of all
                    his difficulties; freedom from the marriage tie; pecuniary damages from the
                    Prime Minister; and the power of avenging, by my disgrace, the scorn formerly
                    shewn him by my family. Those who had instigated him, came to the trial doubtful
                    of the result, but confident of the scandal; Mr Norton came to it, careless of
                    the scandal, and confident of the result. He miscalculated his chances, only
                    because the trial was defended. The mockery of accusation was gone through; Mr
                    Norton was represented as an amiable, injured, deceived husband; Lord Melbourne as a profligate impostor; and
                    I myself as a painted wanton. The time which had been spent in reading
                    translations of Eschylus—listening to explanations of the unknown theories of politics,—
                        “And search of deep philosophy,
                        Wit, eloquence, and poesy,”
                    was represented to have been passed in a manner which amazed me less by the
                    falsehood than the coarseness of the invention. The groom—ragseller came into
                    court dead?drunk: * other witnesses were proved to
                    be lost characters: cross?examination elicited that they had received money, and
                    had actually resided till the time of trial at the country seat of Lord
                    Grantley. The whole evidence stopped short three years before the actual period
                    of trial, as they dared not call any but these witnesses. The jury
                    listened with open incredulity and disgust to the evidence, and, without
                    requiring to hear a single witness for Lord Melbourne, or leaving the jury?box,
                    they instantly gave their verdict against Mr Norton: a verdict which was
                    received with cheers which the Judge vainly attempted to suppress. The
                    impression generally made on the public mind, I give from the letter of Mr David
                    Leahy to Mr Power, who sent it to my younger brother:—
                
                    ”As I was present during the whole exhibition, I can take it upon me as an
                        impartial spectator to say, that a more infamous case upon the part of the
                        plaintiff, never came before a court of justice. All the world—whatever
                        their politics may be, or whatever their opinions about the discretion of
                        the behaviour of all or either of the three principal parties,—must
                        acknowledge that the principal witnesses were perjured and suborned. I have
                        spoken with almost every person present, and there exists a perfect
                        unanimity on this point. The jury, upon the close of the plaintiff’s case,
                        intimated, in a manner perfectly intelligible to the initiated, that it was
                        a mere superfluity to set up any 
                            See Appendix.
                         defence. They shewed the greatest
                        impatience during the Attorney?General’s speech, and made several attempts
                        to interrupt the Judge’s charge; and at last, when it came to their own turn
                        to take the business in hand, they exclaimed unanimously, without a quarter
                        of a minute’s consultation or deliberation, that they found for the
                        Defendant.
                    The case presented altogether a combination of ridiculous driftless futility,
                        with atrocious and incredible perjury, which cannot, I think, be parallelled
                        (in their combination) in the annals of criminal jurisprudence.”
                
                The printed law reports of the day give the result thus:—
                
                     The Learned Judge summed up at considerable length, and the Jury having
                        turned round, in a moment the Foreman said,—“My Lord, we are
                        all agreed—we find for the Defendant.”
                    There was a loud and general burst of applause at the announcement of the
                        verdict, which was instantly checked by the court.
                    The news was communicated outside, and was followed by loud and general
                        cheering from the anxious crowds assembled.
                
                And in another paper:—
                
                    The Learned Judge summed up at some length.
                    The Jury having turned round, and conferred a few seconds,—the
                        Foreman said,—“My Lord, we are agreed,—it is my duty to say that our verdict
                        is for the Defendant.”
                    The announcement was received with loud bursts of applause; an expression of
                        feeling which was promptly re?echoed by shouts from the mob without the
                        doors. The tumult having been partially suppressed, the Lord Chief Justice
                        said “he was surprised to hear a verdict received in a court of justice in
                        so disgraceful a manner.”
                    The court was then cleared.
                
                That impression availed—for Lord Melbourne. For him, the ordeal was happily and
                    triumphantly over; the sympathy of friends, the enthusiasm of the public,
                    greeted his acquittal from the false charge which was to wreck him. He continued
                    Minister to the King, and the dawn of another reign saw him confirmed in his
                    position, with the added distinction of seeming almost the guide and guardian of
                    the youthful Sovereign who was to receive from him her first initiation into the
                    cares and tasks of government.
                
                My humbler destiny was not so easily set right. Previous to the trial, I had been
                    strenuously urged, by some of the truest friends I had, to be beforehand with Mr
                    Norton; and, knowing what my home had been, to attempt to divorce
                        him while he was preparing to accuse me. Others, equally
                    anxious for my welfare, earnestly counselled the exact contrary: to wait,—to
                    have patience,—to depend on the truth being shown on the trial, and my
                    justification being then complete. The case being submitted to Dr Lushington, he
                    advised that I should remain passive, and I did so; sore against my will.
                After the trial was over, I consulted whether a divorce “by reason of cruelty”
                    might not be pleaded for me; and I laid before my lawyers the many instances of
                    violence, injustice, and ill?usage, of which the trial was but the crowning
                    example. I was then told that no divorce I could obtain would break
                    my marriage; that I could not plead cruelty which I had forgiven;
                    that by returning to Mr Norton I had “condoned” all I complained
                    of. I learnt, too, the LAW as to my children—that the
                    right was with the father; that neither my innocence nor his guilt could alter
                    it; that not even his giving them into the hands of a mistress, would give me
                    any claim to their custody. The eldest was but six years old, the second four,
                    the youngest two and a half, when we were parted. I wrote, therefore, and
                        petitioned the father and husband in whose power I was, for
                    leave to see them—for leave to keep them, until they were a little older. Mr
                    Norton’s answer was, that I should not have them; that if I wanted to see them,
                    I might have an interview with them at the chambers of his attorney. I refused,
                    and wrote as follows to my solicitor, who had conveyed his decision to me:—
                
                    “However bitter it may be to me, I must decline seeing my children in the
                        manner proposed. I say nothing of the harshness, the inhumanity of telling
                        me I must either see them at the chambers
                        of his solicitor, or not at all; but I say it is not DECENT that the father of those children should force me, their
                        mother, out of the very tenderness I bear them, to visit them at the
                        chambers of the attorney who collected the evidence, examined the witnesses,
                        and conducted the proceedings for the intended divorce. I say it is not
                        decent—nay, that even if I were guilty, it would not be decent to make me
                        such a proposal. But I am innocent.—I have been pronounced innocent by a
                        jury of my countrymen—I have been solemnly and publicly declared innocent by
                        the nobleman against whom that ill?advised action was brought. Why then, are
                        my children kept from me?—from me, whom even their own witnesses proved to
                        be a careful and devoted mother? Mr Norton says, the Law gives him my
                        children. I know it does, but the Law does no more; it does not compel me to
                        endure more than separation from them; and sooner than allow them to connect
                        my visits in their memory with secrecy and shame, I would submit never again
                        to behold them till they were of an age to visit me without asking
                        permission of any human being.”
                
                More than once Mr Norton’s advisers have shown more feeling for me than my
                    husband himself; and on this occasion his solicitor wrote:—”Mr
                        Norton has made the appointment to see the children here—I cannot but regret
                        it.“
                Eventually, the children were permitted to come to my brother’s house; Mr Norton
                    expressly limiting the time of their stay to one half?hour, and sending them
                    with two of the women who had been witnesses on the trial, who stated that their
                    “orders” were to remain in the room with me. I was not allowed to see even my
                    baby of two years old without these “witnesses.”
                What I suffered on my children’s account, none will ever know or measure. “The
                    heart knoweth its own bitterness,” and God knew mine! The days and nights of
                    tears and anguish, that grew into the struggle of years—it is even
                        now a pain to me to look back
                    upon: even now, the hot agony of resentment and grief rises in my
                    mind, when I think of the needless tyranny I endured in this respect. Mr Norton
                    held my children as hostages; he felt that while he had them, he still had a
                    power over me that nothing could control. Baffled in the matter of the trial and
                    damages, he still had the power to do more than punish—to torture—the wife who
                    had been so anxious to part from him. I never saw them; I seldom knew where they
                    were. Once, when I wrote to ask after them in illness, my letter to the nurse
                    (which contained no syllable of offence, or beyond the subject of my inquiry)
                    was turned inside out, and franked back to me. Miss Vaughan was dead, and I
                    appealed to my mother?in?law (with whom I heard my husband meant to place them),
                    entreating her to refuse to take them; which she promised to do, and heard me
                    with tears of sympathy. But my husband’s sister, Lady Menzies, decided
                    differently: to her, on payment of so much a head, my three children were
                    consigned; and removed to Scotland, where neither their father nor I could be
                    with them. There, with one whom I knew to be haughty and intemperate, those
                    children were left, who had hitherto been so gently and tenderly treated; and
                    the eldest of whom was delicate in health, sensitive in disposition, and just
                    recovering from illness. The first step she made in their education, was to flog
                    this very child (a child of six years old) for merely receiving and reading a
                    letter from me (I being in England and he in Scotland), to “impress on his
                    memory” that he was not to receive letters from me. Having occasion to correct
                    one still younger, she stripped it naked, tied it to the bed?post, and chastised
                    it with a riding?whip. She was a fit sister and colleague to Mr Norton; and I
                    have lived to see the day when her disputes for money, with her own
                    sons, have come to Scotch law?pleading; as Mr Norton has brought to English
                    law?pleading the like disputes with us.
                These boys having been the gleam of happiness and com? pensation in my home; it was not to be supposed that
                    I would give them up without a struggle, because it was so “written in the bond”
                    of English law. Ceaselessly, restlessly, perseveringly, I strove; and,
                    fortunately for me, other cases of hardship had already drawn attention to the
                    necessity of some reform on this subject; especially the case of a Mrs
                    Greenhill, in which Serjeant Talfourd (now Sir Thomas Noon Talfourd) had been
                    professionally concerned. A new “Infant Custody Bill” was brought forward by the
                    learned Serjeant; and passed, after a struggle of three years, by a majority of
                    four to one. As soon as it had passed, I prepared affidavits to lay before the
                    Chancellor; and again Mr Norton narrowly escaped exposure. Among the persons on
                    whom I depended as a witness of past events, was the Right Hon. Edward Ellice.
                    When he was applied to for an affidavit, he thought it a merciful wisdom to warm
                    Mr Norton of what he could prove, and to endeavour to prevent the raking?up of
                    affairs which had begun to be forgotten by the public. Mr Norton answered
                    boldly:—
                
                    “Police Court, Whitechapel, Nov. 27, 1841.
                    ......“I have long looked to the threatened proceedings as the only mode of
                        obtaining a settlement, and of unmasking the repeated unwarrantable and
                        hitherto unresisted attacks which have been perseveringly made on my
                        character for some years.”
                
                But when he had an interview with Mr Ellice; and had learned what
                    that friend was expected to prove, he hastily retracted; and signified to me
                    through his lawyers that it was unnecessary for me to present a petition on
                    affidavit, as he yielded the point, and would not defend himself.
                He yielded,—simply so far as the law would have compelled him, and as was
                    necessary to save himself from the threatened and certain exposure which my
                    appeal under the new law would have entailed. I saw my children in the most
                    formal and comfortless manner. There was no mercy or generosity. I expected
                    none. He even made it a personal quarrel with
                    his colleague and fellow magistrate, Mr Hardwicke, after this, that Mr H. had
                    permitted me one evening to be in his box at the play, with my children. He
                    locked the children themselves up for a whole day; to punish them; and “impress
                    upon their memories” (after the fashion of his sister), that they were not to be
                    seen with me at any public place. Their interviews with me, were to be in
                        private; that no one might know or guess he had been compelled to
                    yield. The insane injustice of punishing the children, or quarrelling with the
                    friend who had catered for their amusement, when no one intended to offend him,
                    never seems to have occurred to him. He feared only the truth being known; our
                    appearance in public, was a contradiction of his assertions in private.
                His cruel carelessness was afterwards proved, on a most miserable occasion. My
                    youngest child, then a boy of eight years old, left without care or overlooking,
                    rode out with a brother but little older than himself, was thrown, carried to
                    the house of a country neighbor, and died there of lock jaw, consequent on the
                    accident. Mr Norton allowed the child to lie ill for a week,—indeed to be at
                    death’s door,—before he sent to inform me. Sir Fitzroy and Lady Kelly were
                    staying with Mr Norton in the country. Lady Kelly (who was an utter stranger to
                    me) met me at the railway station. I said—“I am here,—is my boy better?” “No,”
                    she said—“he is not better,—he is dead.” And I found, instead of my child, a
                    corpse already coffined.
                Mr Norton asked my forgiveness then, as he had asked it often before; he sent his
                    elder child to plead for him,—for well he knew what my children were to me; he
                    humbled himself, and grieved for an hour, till he changed into pity the horror
                    and repugnance I had expressed at the idea of seeing him;—and then he buried our
                    child, and forgot both his sorrow and his penitence.
                
                During the years over which my separation from these children extended, several
                    attempts were made by Mr Norton either to compel me to his own terms, or to
                    bring about a reconciliation. In the Spring immediately following the Trial
                    (after my first efforts to obtain my children had been rejected) I suddenly
                    received from him a most extraordinary note, saying, that he considered our
                    differences “capable of adjustment,” and hoped I would meet
                    him alone, in an empty house, No. 1 Berkeley street, where he would wait for me.
                    I received this communication with doubt and distrust; increased rather than
                    diminished by the impatience shown by Mr Norton to obtain an answer, for which
                    he sent twice in the course of the afternoon. He then wrote to say, that
                    “nothing could be effected without mutual confidence,” and as he could not come
                    to my uncle’s house (where I lived) he hoped I would come to his own residence.
                    This I consented to do. We had a long wretched interview. He besought me once
                    more, to “forget the past” and return home. He laid the blame of all that had
                    happened, on his friends and advisers; said the trial was against his will and
                    judgment, and that he longed to “take me to his heart again.” He complained of
                    the coldness with which I received these proposals; but I did not refuse. He
                    recalled my poor children from Scotland; and sent notes almost daily to my
                    house. Those letters began, “My Carry,” “My dear Carry,” and were signed, “Yours
                    affectionately.” Two of them (in allusion to my fear of meeting him) bore the
                    playful signature of “GREENACRE,”—the name of a man who
                    had been recently hung, for enticing a woman to his house by promising marriage,
                    and then murdering and cutting her into pieces.
                After a month of this strange correspondence, I received a note from him, to say
                    the masculine sister had arrived to stay with him. A dispute followed, as to
                    what I had or had not said to this lady. Mr Norton complained that I had stated
                    to her I did not intend “honestly” to return to him; but “to re? turn for the sake of my children and my
                        reputation;” and that I had said “I never would live with him again.”
                    Our reconciliation was broken off; my children were sent back to Scotland; and
                    the next notice taken of my existence, by the husband who had wooed my return;
                    who had begged me to meet him in an empty house, assuring me nothing could be
                    affected “without mutual confidence;”—who had signed himself GREENACRE, in familiar and caressing letters, jesting upon my fears
                    and doubts as to trusting myself alone at that meeting;—and who had, in the
                    first instance, desired his servant the day after my departure, to open the door
                    of my home “with the chain across;”—the next step, I say, taken by the husband
                    whose real story was so little known to the public, was to impose on that public
                    by an advertisement respecting his legal liability for me, commencing,—
                
                    “Whereas on 30th March, 1836, my wife, Caroline Elizabeth Sarah, left me, her
                        family, and home, and hath from thenceforth continued to separate and apart
                        from me,” 
                            &c.
                            et cetera
                        
                
                Angry, and full of scorn, I consulted my solicitor whether I was compelled to
                    bear this fresh outrage. I showed him the letters Mr N. had written just before
                    this pretence of being a forsaken husband:— “have I no remedy?”—“No remedy in
                        LAW. The LAW can do nothing
                    for you: your case is one of singular, of incredible hardship; but there is no
                    possible way in which the LAW could assist you.” My
                    brother did all that could be done—he desired his solicitors to publish a letter
                    stating that “the whole of the statements contained in Mr
                        Norton’s advertisement were false”—an imputation which remains on it to
                    this day. After the insult of the advertisement, there was a pause of some
                    weeks; and then Mr Norton wrote to say he wished an arbitration in our affairs;
                    the arbitrator he named, was Sir John Bayley; and as the history of the
                    reference is given later, I do not here enter into it; further than to say that
                    Mr Norton, after solemnly pledging himself in writing, to abide by whatever decision might be come to, utterly
                    refused to be bound; quarrelled with his arbitrator; and broke off the
                    negotiation. A year and a half afterwards, he requested Sir Frederick Thesiger
                    to act as referee; whose opinion I give in his own words:—“The
                        accommodation proposed by Norton is one in which you are to give way upon
                        every subject, and he is not to recede upon one; and it seems to me to be
                        ridiculous to talk of conciliation upon such a footing.” ......“It is
                        impossible not to be struck with the vacillating and vexatious course which
                        Norton has pursued; exciting hopes only to disappoint them, and making
                        promises apparently for the opportunity of breaking them.” Friends
                    mediated; men of business wasted their time in vain; Mr Norton’s promises were
                    ropes of sand.
                In 1842—two years after Mr Norton had evaded the chance of exposure by declining
                    to defend my petition under the Infant Custody Bill—he once more asked me to be
                    “reconciled” to him, and to return to live with him. Though this was not
                    arranged, yet from that time there was a degree of peace and friendliness
                    established, which, for the sake of my sons (of whom I had already lost one), I
                    was more than willing—I was anxious—to maintain. Mr Norton’s letters again
                    became caressing and flattering; he visited me at the house of my uncle Mr C.
                    Sheridan, and after Mr Sheridan’s death, at my own. When I wrote to him from
                    abroad, in 1848, he sent one of my letters triumphantly to my mother, to prove
                    to her what good terms we were on. He followed me to Germany, and said he did
                    not think I ought to “travel alone.” Down to the time of my mother’s death, and
                    the dispute respecting her annuity,—whatever undercurrent of bitterness and
                    distrust there might be on my part, or of caprice on his—we remained on familiar
                    and friendly terms; and he relapsed into the old habit of entreating my
                    interference for his interests, with such of my family or friends as had
                        political influence; as he had done when we
                    lived together in one home.
                The history of the contract—in the dispute about which, after my mother’s death,
                    this state of things was broken up—I have given separately; but before I
                    conclude these pages which treat of the past instead of the present, I think it
                    is fit to show, by the evidence of Lord Melbourne’s own letters, the opinion
                        he entertained of these affairs, in which his name has been
                    once more introduced by Mr Norton as an opportunity for falsehood.
                The first letter I shall quote of Lord Melbourne’s, is one written only
                        three months after he had given Mr Norton his magistracy; when
                    already he was disturbed at the conduct of his nominee. Mr Norton inaugurated
                    his appointment by quarrelling with his colleague. I endeavoured to justify my
                    husband; and blamed Mr W. Lord Melbourne replied thus; in a letter dated July
                    19, 1831; and I print it because it is a curious prophetic comment on Mr
                    Norton’s late letters in the ‘Times’.
                
                    “Home Office, July 19th, 1831.
                    “T.W., as you say, does what he has not the least right to do; and the worst
                        is, he is not only foolish himself, but is the cause of folly in others. I
                        had the greatest difficulty in preventing Norton from replying to him in the
                        ‘Times.’ I was much alarmed at the notion of his doing this, especially as I
                        found him thoroughly impressed with the opinion that he could do it with
                        great cleverness and dexterity. Now I know very well that a man of that
                        description who is fully persuaded that he is about to do a thing extremely
                        well, is on the very point of committing some irretrievable error, or
                        falling into some most ridiculous absurdity. . I hate the magistrates
                        writing to the newspapers . . besides, people will be sure to say to me,—if
                        the magistrates get squabbling in public,
                        why do you not clear the bench of these fellows altogether? a question to
                        which I should not well know what to reply. They tell me also, that Norton
                        does not go to his office early enough. I should be annoyed at having a
                        complaint made upon this subject. Pray dissuade him, gently, from any public
                        exhibitions in the newspapers; and urge him gently to a little more activity
                        in the morning. He might surely without difficulty get there by twelve
                        o’clock. This is a disagreeable lecturing letter, but still upon matters to
                        which it is necessary to pay some attention.”
                
                Good natured and familiar as was this expression of dissatisfaction, I felt that
                    Lord Melbourne was beginning to perceive the character of the husband for whom I
                    had successfully petitioned; and I warned—and warned in vain. To the last,
                    however, Mr Norton relied on Lord Melbourne’s kindness; and the next note I
                    shall give, is a curious and explicit answer to the assertions of my husband, as
                    to his jealousy and unhappiness; for it is dated only eight weeks before
                        our final separation, and discusses the appointment Mr Norton
                    had agreed to endeavour to obtain; (his pertinacity about which appears to have
                    puzzled the Home Office.)
                
                    “Downing street, January 27th, 1836.
                    “Norton plagues me to death about the successor to Walker. He seems to think
                        that he and H. have almost a right to make the appointment. He has just
                        brought me a letter, strongly recommending a Mr ——, and seemed to be struck
                        as with a new idea, when I told him that he had better let me mention the
                        name to Lord John as from myself; inasmuch as he and H. interfering, would
                        rather be against the candidate than for him. He seems to think that
                        everything is to give way to the consideration of giving him a pleasant
                        companion. He says the Bench used with Walker to be like a pleasant club,
                        and that he must have an agreeable fellow to walk to and fro with. Now do
                        not try to stop him, nor give him any notion of what I have said. I wrote to you yesterday about F. I am told
                        by those who know him that he certainly would not accept it. Adieu,
                    Yours, Melbourne.”
                
                Two months afterwards, Mr Norton and I were parted: Lord Melbourne passed the
                    Easter at Brocket and Panshanger; and as I never dreamed that he would himself
                    be made the pretence of our quarrel, I wrote to tell him what had happened. I
                    quote four of his letters written at that time. Living, he justified himself by
                    his simple word of honour; and dead, I justify him with lines written by a hand
                    cold in the grave. However deservedly severe his language may be with respect to
                    Mr Norton, I leave those who read to judge whether these are the letters of a
                    treacherous seducer—or even of a lover.
                
                    “Panshanger, April 6th, 1836.
                    .......“I hardly know what to write to you, or what comfort to offer. You
                        know, as well as I do, that the best course is to keep yourself tranquil,
                        and not to give way to feelings and passions which Heaven knows are too
                        natural to be easily resisted. This conduct upon his part seems perfectly
                        unaccountable; and depend upon it, being, as you are, in the right, it will
                        be made ultimately to appear; whatever temporary misrepresentations may
                        prevail. You cannot have better or more affectionate advisors than you have
                        with you upon the spot, who are well acquainted with the circumstances of
                        the case, and with the characters of those with whom they have to deal. You
                        know that I have always counselled you to bear everything, and remain to the
                        last. I thought it for the best. I am afraid it is no longer possible. Open
                        breaches of this kind are always to be lamented, but you have the
                        consolation that you have done your utmost to stave this extremity off as
                        long as possible. In all difficulties you may always depend upon me, and
                        believe me,
                    Yours, Melbourne.”
                
                
                    “Panshanger, April 8th, 1836.
                    .......“It is in vain to rail, otherwise I could do so too; but it was at all
                        times easy to see that it was the most
                        dangerous and ill?conditioned creature possible, and that there was nothing
                        that might not be expected from such a mixture of folly and malignity. I am
                        very glad C. is gone down. You have now real friends about you. You describe
                        me very truly when you say that I am always more annoyed that there is a row
                        than sorry for the persons engaged in it. But, after all, you know you can
                        count upon me. I wonder that you should think it possible that I should
                        communicate your letters to any one else, I have heard no mention of the
                        subject. Lord Holland did, in one of his letters, and I answered him exactly
                        to the effect you told me, and as I must have done without being told,
                        namely, that I had seen you with Norton the day before you left town, and
                        that I knew that he was perfectly well acquainted with your intention of
                        going off into the country, * because he, in
                        my hearing, suggested putting it off from Wednesday, I believe, until
                        Saturday. I have also seen one paragraph relating to the matter in one of
                        the newspapers, and this is all that has reached me. I shall be in town
                        again on Monday. Adieu.
                    “Yours, Melbourne.”
                
                
                    “Panshanger, April 10th, 1836.
                    “I have just received your letter, with Leicester Stanhope’s enclosed, with
                        which I am much pleased. He could not have acted better, nor with more
                        discretion. Never, to be sure, was there such conduct! To set on foot that
                        sort of enquiry without the slightest real ground for it! But it does not
                        surprise me. I have always known that there was there a mixture of folly and
                        violence which might lead to any absurdity or any injustice. You know so
                        well my opinion that it is unnecessary for me to repeat it. I have always
                        told you that a woman should never part from her husband whilst she can
                        remain with him. If this is generally the case, it is particularly so in
                        such a case as yours; that is, in the case of a young handsome woman, of
                            There was a report
                            that I had eloped, sedulously circulated by Mr Norton’s
                            friends. lively imagination,
                        fond of company and conversation, and whose celebrity and superiority has
                        necessarily created many enemies. Depend upon it, if a reconciliation is
                        feasible, there can be no doubt of the prudence of it. It is so evident that
                        it is unnecessary to expatiate upon it. Lord Holland, who is almost the only
                        person who has mentioned the subject to me, is entirely of that opinion.
                    “Yours, Melbourne.”
                
                
                    “South street, April 19th, 1836.
                    ......“If, for the sake of your children, you think you can endure to return
                        to him, you certainly will act most wisely and prudently for yourself in
                        doing so. I advise you, however, to take no step of yourself without the
                        advice of Seymour and Graham; and if you determine upon writing to Mr
                        Barlow, send your letter open to them, giving them a discretionary power
                        either to send or to withhold it.
                    “Keep up your spirits; agitate yourself as little as possible; do not be too
                        anxious about rumours and the opinion of ‘the World;’ being, as you are,
                        innocent and in the right, you will, in the end, bring everything round.
                    “Yours, Melbourne.”
                
                These four letters were all written before it occurred to Mr Norton or had been
                    suggested to him, to speculate on the advantage of making Lord Melbourne
                        himself appear the cause of our quarrel, by bringing an action
                    against him. The chances were all favourable; for either large damages would be
                    given if successful, or, if the scandal was one the Prime Minister dared not
                    face, probably a large sum might be given as a compromise to prevent the suit
                    being brought at all. The astounding intelligence having been communicated to
                    Lord Melbourne; I received from him the following note.
                
                    “South street, April 19th, 1836.
                    “I send you a letter which I wrote yesterday with the intention of sending
                        it. I hope you will not take it ill, if I implore you to try, at least, to
                        be calm under these trials. You know that what is alleged (if it be alleged)
                        is utterly false, AND WHAT
                            IS FALSE CAN RARELY BE MADE TO APPEAR TRUE. The steps which it
                        will be prudent to take, it will be impossible to determine until we know
                        more certainly the course that is intended to be pursued. If any servant of
                        mine or any one that has left within the last six years had been
                        interrogated I think I should have heard of it. But, whoever may be
                        interrogated no one can depose anything which can affect you or me.
                    “Yours, Melbourne. ”
                
                
                    “South street June 9th 1836.
                    “I have received your letter, and have given such instructions as I trust
                        will be for the best. I do not wonder at the impression made upon you.* I knew it would be so, and therefore I was
                        almost unwilling to have the interview take place. All the attorneys that I
                        have ever seen, have all the same manner; hard, cold, incredulous,
                        distrustful, sarcastic, and sneering. They are accustomed to be conversant
                        with the worst part of human nature, and with the most discreditable
                        transactions. They have so many falsehoods told them, that they place
                        confidence in none.
                    “I have sent your note; having read it. I dare say you think me unfeeling;
                        but I declare that since I first heard I was to be proceeded against, I have
                        suffered more intensely than I ever did in my life. I had neither sleep nor
                        appetite, and I attribute the whole of my illness (at least the severity of
                        it) to the uneasiness of my mind. Now what is this uneasiness for? not for
                        my own character, because, as you justly say, the imputation upon me is as
                        nothing. It is not for the political consequences to myself, although I
                        deeply feel the consequences which my indiscretion may bring upon those who
                        are attached to me and follow I had written to complain of the matter of Mr Vizard,
                            Lord Melbourne’s solicitor, who came to question me, and did not appear
                            to believe me, when I asserted my innocence. I said the accusation was
                            nothing against Lord M. (according to the views taken in society of the
                            conduct of men;) but that it was life and death to me, as a woman; and
                            that I would not see Mr Vizard at all, if he insulted me by expressions
                            of incredulity. my fortunes. The
                        real and principal object of my anxiety and solicitude is you, and the
                        situation in which you have been so unjustly placed, by the circumstances
                        which have taken place.”
                
                Lord Melbourne was right, so far that what was “false” was not made
                    to “appear true:” and that the drunken and worthless witnesses were discredited
                    by the Jury. The very fact, however, of the utter disbelief with which the
                    evidence was received, saved Mr Norton from any further exposure than that of
                    having brought forward a story it was obvious even he himself could not have
                    believed. For,—as it was not thought necessary to call any witnesses to rebut
                    the coarse invention of the accuser,—our real history remained unknown as
                    before.
                The next steps taken, prove only how heartily ashamed every one was, of being
                    supposed to have had any share in the transaction. The papers of the day were
                    filled with severe comments and counter comments. Lord Wynford denied having had
                    any hand in the business. Lord Grantley (who, at least had the excuse for
                    interference that he was Mr Norton’s brother) partly denied it. Sir W. Follett
                    hastened to intrench himself within the narrowest limit of professional and
                    compulsory assistance, and published a denial of having advised the
                    trial, in the ‘Times;’ and Lord Melbourne had already written to me, as follows,
                    of the denial of the Duke of Cumberland.
                
                    “10 South street.
                    ....“What I wanted to tell you was this: that a few days ago the Duke of
                        Cumberland came up to me in one of the lobbies of the House of Lords, and
                        said—‘Have you seen Wynford? He wishes to speak to you; and it is in order
                        to assure you, upon his honour, that he has had nothing to do with this
                        affair. Nor indeed ANY OF US. We would do nothing so
                        ungentlemanlike. The moment I heard he was charged with it, I went to him,
                        and asked him, and he solemnly denied it.’ I replied that ‘I never believed
                        mere rumours and reports; that I had never thought it, and that His Royal
                        Highness’s declaration was, of course, perfectly satisfactory.’ When I went
                        into the House of Lords, Lord Wynford sent
                        one of the Messengers to ask me to come over to him, as, being lame, he
                        could not come to me. I went, and he then repeated the disclaimer already
                        made by the Duke of Cumberland, and added, that he ‘had never heard of the
                        action until four days after it had been commenced, and that as to that
                        unfortunate young man’—(as he termed Norton), who he said had been his
                        ward,—he had not seen him for these two or three years—I will not be certain
                        of the precise time he mentioned, but it was a long one.) I, of course,
                        declared myself ‘perfectly satisfied.’”
                
                Of course. A gentleman, called upon to accept the disclaimer of other gentlemen,
                    one of them a Prince of the blood Royal, could do no less; and of all men, the
                    two in question might feel sympathy for persons struggling against accusation;
                    for the Duke of Cumberland had himself been the theme of resisted obloquy, in
                    that strange history of the murder of his servant; and Lord Wynford’s justice,
                    as Judge Best, had been impugned by Lord Denman in the House of Lords, for
                    brow?beating and unfairly fining a prisoner; not to mention other scandals, less
                    publicly arraigned.
                Lord Melbourne then, had to profess himself ”satisfied,“ as a matter of course;
                    but I was not satisfied. In the first place, I knew it was not true
                    that Lord Wynford had not seen Mr Norton for three years; and I was assured that
                    some of the witnesses had been examined at his house. As to the denial of the
                    Duke of Cumberland,—both Princes and Kings may be eagerly served, without
                    accepting the responsibility of their words; and the trivial task of breaking up
                    a Ministry, need not weigh on the conscience like the riddance of St Thomas à
                    Beckett. His Royal Highness’s dissatisfaction at the success of the Whig party,
                    and his dislike of its leader, were patent and unconcealed. Even those who were
                    friends and adherents of that party, were involved in the evidence of that
                    dislike. I well remember, when I attended the Court receptions, even before the event of the Mock?Trial,
                    when it was merely surmised that I had influence with the Whig Premier, that the
                    Duke of Cumberland was the only Royal personage who refused to acknowledge, by
                    the slightest salute, the curtsey I made to him, as to others in the Royal
                    circle. I mentioned it to Lord Melbourne. He said, “You take these slights to
                    yourself, but they are not put upon you.”
                It so happened, by some strange hazard, that in the list of the jury on the
                    trial, the name of Sir Robert Peel was called;*
                    and Sir W. Follett took the opportunity of alluding to that circumstance in his
                    address: he said,—
                
                    “He cared not for the political sentiments of those he addressed—he would as
                        soon have twelve political opponents as twelve supporters of his noble
                        client, as he was sure they would do justice to both parties. There was left
                        on the Jury the leader of the political party opposed to his client, but he
                        would have as soon seen Sir Robert Peel in that box as any other gentleman;
                        and neither Lord Melbourne nor those who advised him, ever thought of
                        objecting to that gentleman. ”
                
                Certainly not; but between impeaching a leader whose honour never was attacked,
                    and utterly acquitting all members of the Tory party,—there is a
                    wide gulf; and after the denials, more or less angry, and more or less positive,
                    made publicly by persons at the time; the newspapers still debated the subject,
                    and still boldly put the question,— “Who then is the man behind
                        the screen?” The very wording of the Duke of Cumberland’s denial,—the
                    very expression, “nor indeed ANY OF
                        US”—assumed that Lord Melbourne suspected some of the Tory party
                    were the real movers in the extraordinary, unexpected, and unfair attack made
                    upon him. I repeat that I know the late King thought so; and as for Lord
                    Melbourne Lords Grantley,
                        Lichfield, and Lucan were seated on the bench. Sir R. Peel and Mr F. Baring,
                        M.P., whose names were on the Jury list, were called, but did not answer.—
                                Law Report, 1836. and myself, how could it seem otherwise than a plot?
                    He knew, and I knew, (however deceived the Public might be,) that he was
                        not the cause of the domestic rupture which had taken place. He
                    knew, and I knew, that to the very last day and hour of my stay under my
                    husband’s roof, he had been not only a welcome, but a peculiarly courted guest
                    of Mr Norton’s; that, to the last, favours had been begged of him, and
                    friendliness sustained; that for years, his portrait had lain, unchallenged, the
                    principal ornament of the dining room table, and that I had never imagined it
                    necessary to conceal from my husband, or any one else, the profound enthusiasm
                    and regard I felt for that gifted and intellectual friend,—who was of my
                    father’s generation, not mine.
                Lord Melbourne himself laid much stress on the admission of the witnesses, that
                    they had received a weekly stipend from an agent. He always considered they had
                    been suborned, and in one of his notes alludes thus to the man Fluke:*—
                
                    “July 3, 1836.
                    “We are told that the witness ‘Fluke,’ made the most of the advantages of his
                        situation, whilst it lasted, and tyrannized over his employers unmercifully.
                        He would not leave Guildford until he had both chicken and duckling for his
                        breakfast, and insisted upon coming up in a chaise and four. It is a pity
                        that we did not know these circumstances upon the day of trial.
                    “Yours, Melbourne.”
                
                Who the “employers” were,—was the only doubt; and it was that doubt, which the
                    Duke of Cumberland endeavoured to clear away,—when he denied, on behalf of the
                    whole Tory party, any undue or ungentlemanlike interference in the affair.
                    Nevertheless, when, after the Mock?Trial, I re?appeared at the I have thought it worth while
                        to re?print, in an Appendix, at the end of this pamphlet, part of the sworn
                        evidence of this man. Let those who read it judge for themselves of the case
                        so supported. English Court (which
                    was not without express sanction, and subsequent to Her Majesty’s marriage); my
                    re?appearance was made a party question; and one or two of the Tory ladies,
                    known to be on especial terms of familiar friendship with the Duke of Cumberland
                    (then King of Hanover); openly boasted that in their own little set of Royal and
                    Political personages, they would treat the jury verdict of twelve untitled
                    English gentlemen as “non avenu.” That the
                    Whig ladies, and such personal friends as I might have on the Tory side, might
                    do what they pleased; but that even in the Court itself supported the verdict of
                    acquittal, it would require only a little time and patience (on the principle
                    laid down by Sir R. Peel, that those who could personally approach the Queen
                    must necessarily influence Her Majesty), to bring about a change. I know this
                    boast was especially made by a lady, whose husband has since held Court
                    appointments, and who sedulously cultivated many Royal friendships. And that
                    such assumption was not considered,—among her own party at least,—“the baseless
                    fabric of a vision,” is certainly proved by the stress laid, in May 1839, on the
                    privilege of dismissing all the Queen’s ladies, except such as were under the
                    rank Ladies of the Bedchamber.
                The Royal decision was afterwards made public.—
                
                    “Buckingham Palace, May 10th, 1839.
                    “The Queen having considered the proposal made to her yesterday by Sir Robert
                        Peel to remove the Ladies of her Bedchamber, cannot consent to adopt a
                        course which she conceives to be contrary to usage, and which is repugnant
                        to her feelings.”
                
                Sir Robert’s reply was a respectfully worded refusal to take office with that
                    restriction. In the Ministerial explanation of May 13th, 1839, he expressly
                    stated, that—
                
                    “No question arose as to the formation of the administration, or as to the
                        principles on which the Government was to be formed orconducted. The
                        difficulty related exclusively to that portion of the household which is
                        filled by the LADIES in Her Majesty’s service. Her Majesty conceded what could be
                        wished or expected with respect to that part of the household which is
                        filled by noblemen or gentlemen holding seats in either House of Parliament.
                        The difficulty arose with respect to certain portions of that part of the
                        establishment which is filled by the LADIES of the
                        household.”
                
                The influence which the ladies of the Court, then, were supposed to exercise, may
                    be judged by this circumstance; which was held to be of sufficient importance to
                    decide the non?acceptance of ministerial power. When I complained to Lord
                    Melbourne that the lady?expectant I have alluded to, took an active part against
                    me:—his answer was,—“not against you—none of them care about you:
                    it is against me,—and she, in particular, has always hated me like
                    poison.”
                From him I learned, that when on one occasion whilst her Majesty’s carriages were
                    passing over the race?ground at Ascot, some of the Tory Ladies
                        hissed (which caused great scandal), those ladies excused
                    themselves by saying, they “intended no disrespect to the Queen, for that
                        they had hissed, not Her Majesty, but her Majesty’s Minister Lord
                        Melbourne.” From him I learned also, many speeches and sentiments
                    from other ladies, which I should not else have known: and I confess that the
                    conduct of some of these female Politicians,—their capacity for bitter
                    partisanship, and incapacity for common justice,—amazed me. I was young enough
                    then, to expect the sympathy of all women; and I was astonished at finding
                    ladies whose children were my contemporaries, looking upon me not only without
                    pity, but with anger, as something that was to have wrecked the Whig Prime
                    Minister, and had failed to accomplish that object. Fortunately for me, kindness
                    was the rule, and harshness the exception. If misfortune taught me some bitter
                    lessons, it also taught me the nobleness of hearts on which I had no claim.
                    Fortunately also for me, I had true and generous sisters,—and a family whose
                    love and protection almost annulled the bitterness of these events!
                
                But neither family or friends could help me to redeem those hostages—my children:
                    and not yet seeing my way to the struggle a new law afterwards enabled me to
                    make, I supplicated incessantly and in vain. I thought of nothing, day or night,
                    but my children. Lord Melbourne wrote to me, surprised at my silence after the
                    trial; and I told him I was broken?hearted on this point, and had written to
                    petition my husband for mercy respecting them. I wrote bitterly and
                    despondingly; and Lord Melbourne’s replies were certainly not cheering or
                    comforting. His anger against Mr Norton for having submitted to be employed, to
                    injure not only him but his party,—“those who are attached to
                        me, and follow my fortunes,” —was mixed with something like reproach to
                    me, for not having more keenly and severely judged and foreseen the conduct of
                    the husband I had toiled and asked favours for. I had not the ‘lover’ attributed
                    to me; but I had a friend, deeply wounded, and whom I grieved to wound; and
                    these are his letters:—
                
                    “South street, July 2nd, 1836.
                    “Well, come what may, I will never again, from silence or any other symptom,
                        think that you can mean anything unkind or adverse to me. I have already
                        told you that most of the bitterness which I have felt during this affair,
                        was upon your account. ..... I do not think your application to Norton was
                        judicious. From the beginning, your anxiety to prevent publicity has induced
                        you to apply to him too much. Every communication elates him, and encourages
                        him to persevere in his brutality. You ought to know him better than I do,
                        and must do so. But you seem to me to be hardly aware what a GNOME he is: how perfectly earthy and bestial. He is possessed
                        of a devil: and that the meanest and basest fiend, that disgraces the
                        infernal regions. In my opinion he has somehow or other made this whole
                        matter subservient to his pecuniary interest. He has got MONEY by it, from —— or some one else. I should feel certain of
                        this, if it were not for his folly, which is so excessive as to render him
                        incapable even of forwarding his own low designs.”
                
                
                
                    “South street, July 19th, 1836.
                    “There is no knowing what that man may do, now that he is left to the
                        guidance of his own feelings, and his own understanding; and to the advice
                        of those about him. You knew the state of your own domestic affairs better
                        than I did. I only knew what you told me; but it appeared to me, that by
                        living with him you had grown less alive to his real character by being
                        accustomed to it, and also that you were so used to manage him and to
                        prevent his follies, that you relied too much on being able always to do it.
                        Recollect when you were with him, how stupidly and brutally he continually
                        behaved; particularly, for instance, to Helen. His conduct there always
                        struck me as showing a violence which was likely afterwards to break out.
                        Now that he has nobody to advise, control, or soothe him, what follies or
                        what abominable conduct he may pursue, it is impossible to conjecture. I
                        pity you about the children. It is most melancholy not to know where they
                        are, or with whom. ”
                
                
                    “South street, July 24, 1836.
                    “I send you back the copies.* I agree very much
                        in all you say in your letter. The amount of allowance makes a great
                        difference. If you could get 300
                            l.
                            pound
                         or 400
                            l
                            pound
                        . (I think you ought to have the latter sum), the arrangement might
                        do tolerably well. But they are very advantageous terms for him, and should
                        not be agreed to, except for something approaching to an equivalent. I think
                        he should secure your income beyond his own life, upon any property that he
                        may have. I have never mentioned money to you, and I hardly like to do it
                        now: your feelings have been so galled that they have naturally become very
                        sore and sensitive, and I knew not how you might take it. I have had at
                        times a great mind to send you some, but I feared to do so. As I trust we
                        are now upon terms of confidential and affectionate friendship I venture to
                        say that you have nothing to do but to express a wish, and it shall be
                        instantly complied with. I miss you. I Of Mr Norton’s propositions. miss your society and conversation, every day at
                        the hours at which I was accustomed to enjoy them, and when you say that
                        your place can easily be supplied, you indulge in a little vanity and
                        self?conceit. You know well enough that there is nobody who can fill your
                        place. I have been reading “The Wife,” and have finished the second volume.
                        It is full of most excellent things. ‘Lionel’ is too d—d a beast, and ‘Mary’
                        makes a great deal too much sacrifice for him, but it is not unnatural. Many
                        people have acted as amiably, as romantically, and as foolishly. I think, in
                        order to take advantage of what you have observed in other people’s
                        characters, you have put into his, what did not belong to it. For instance,
                        his being so disagreeable upon the journey,—calculating the currency and
                        admiring nothing fine or beautiful either in Nature or in Art,—is what has
                        struck you in others; and you have grafted it upon him, in whom, being a man
                        of genius and feeling, it is not natural.
                    I saw Brinsley and his wife the other night at Lord Hertford’s. I thought him
                        rather cold. None of them seem really glad to see me, except Charlie. But
                        there is no reason they should be. If they went upon my principle, (or
                        rather my practice) of disliking those who cause me trouble, uneasiness,
                        vexation, without considering why they do it,—they certainly would not
                        rejoice in my presence.
                    You are quite right, and it shows your good sense, to bear in mind that it
                        may be of permanent disadvantage to your children to be separated and
                        estranged from their father’s family, upon whom they must principally
                        depend. I expect that some day or another you will have them all thrown upon
                        you. Adieu,
                    “Yours, Melbourne.”
                
                
                    “South street, January 7th, 1837.
                    .... “Do you know —— tells me, that from all he can hear, he believes that
                        Norton has really got three thousand a year; and ten thousand pounds
                        down”....
                
                
                
                     “South street, January 18th, 1837.
                    .....“I have been told to?day that Norton has been trying to make a bargain
                        to give up his office in favour of a Mr —— for a thousand pounds.* It is just like him. I said to the person who
                        gave me the intelligence, ‘if you find it out, stop the bargain, and stop
                        the appointment; but say as little as possible about it,—for at least half
                        the disgrace of the transaction will fall upon me, who appointed him.’
                        Adieu,
                    “Yours, Melbourne.”
                
                This, then, is the husband, who to evade a pecuniary contract, has lately
                    subjected me to the last extreme of obloquy: these are the letters of the man he
                    proceeded against in an English Court of ‘Justice,’ for damages:
                    and such are the opinions, in despite of which, Mr Norton dares to revive the
                    slur he threw upon my name in the mad vengeance of the hour,—when Sir James
                    Graham declined his condition that if he retracted what had been said of me, we
                    were to contradict all that was said of him. Lord Melbourne’s
                    letters are in themselves evidence that I spared Mr Norton. The man
                    my husband accused as my lover, writes to me as to one not even thoroughly aware
                    of that husband’s mercenary nature. “You ought to know him —but
                        you seem to be hardly aware what a GNOME he is.” ..
                        “I only knew what you told me, but it appeared to me that by living with him
                        you had grown less alive to his real character, by being accustomed to it.”
                        .. “Recollect how he behaved,” 
                            &c.
                            et cetera
                        .. 
                Phrases which prove, that to the last, I had spared him, to those
                    who could serve him—and to those who could not. And if it be asked why, having
                    spared him so long, I expose him now,—I answer that I am the
                    judge,—not others,—where en? At the time it was supposed that Mr Norton would be
                        unable, after the trial, to brave public opinion by continuing to hold the
                        place Lord Melbourne had given him.
                    durance merged in exasperation: and that the boundary line was reached, the day
                    Mr Norton met me in the County Court; the day that, to evade a just claim, he
                    unburied all the falsehoods of the past; endeavoured to disgrace me (in 1854, as
                    he had done in 1836) for the sake of money; and in cold blood re?published, to
                    the grieving of my grown?up sons, the slanders which had blighted my youth in
                    their infancy. But for that day in the County Court, Mr Norton might have gone
                    to his grave in seeming respectability; our history known only to a few friends.
                    Struggle and warfare were over with me. Much of the bitterness I felt, had faded
                    with time; much had vanished when I recovered my sons. While that bitterness was
                    yet fresh, and circumstances, from time to time, roused me to desire a more
                    public justification,—Lord Melbourne himself was the first to preach lessons of
                    patience. He spoke to me of the “nine day’s wonder” my story would be; of the
                    perfect conviction of the real circumstances of my case, entertained by those
                    whose opinion I valued; of my youth, and the likelihood that in a few years I
                    would have “lived down” all temporary scandal; of the embarrassment
                    it would be to him,—as the minister of a young unmarried
                    Sovereign,—to have such a history re?opened;—of the disloyal selfishness he
                    conceived such a struggle on my part would evince; of the awkwardness, in
                    particular, of any attempt to prove interference on the part of those Personages
                    who had denied it to him; of the certainty that when the Queen was married, and
                    the Court more established, I would find in the earnest support of those whose
                    faithful minister he had been, an upholding that would make me forget the
                    disgrace I had endured in his name. He was my friend, though not my lover; and
                    the resolves of many an angry day and hour subsided under his influence. In
                    later years there had been no need for such arguments for silence. I had long
                    relinquished the idea of warfare with Mr Norton; and was quietly making the best
                    of a bad destiny. All last winter I was
                    residing in Italy with my two sons; occupied in completing a work to be
                    published by Messrs Hurst and Blackett, the profits of which were devoted to the
                    Oxford expenses of the youngest. I had just nursed him through one of those
                    tedious Neapolitan fevers, from which he had suffered for nine weeks,—I had
                    myself been confined to my room for five weeks,— and this was the
                    time chosen by Mr Norton, as husband and father, for a vain battling
                    correspondence, compelling my return to England, to debate at law the contract I
                    thought had been settled for life. This was the time chosen,—by subpœnaing my
                    publishers, and claiming to reckon my literary gains as his own personal
                    relief,—to establish his legal right to annul even the service I could render my
                    son: and to revive libels he himself had a thousand times admitted to be false:
                    by which he once more put me in the same position, as to the repelling of
                        accusation, that I had been in when our separation took place, in
                    1836.
                In the same position, only as to that one point. Lord Melbourne is dead; my
                    children are grown up; I have no second youth, to wear away in the
                    fond hope of “living down” Mr Norton’s slanders, and making friendships and
                    companionships among my own sex without the sorrowful embarrassment of a ‘story’
                    to explain. I have no second youth I say, to spend in a semi?justification
                    against these foul slanders. Therefore, once for all, I deny them: I defy them:
                    I disprove them: and I regret only that I did not do, years ago, that which I do
                    this day. As to writing, I will never again write, while my copyrights are held
                    to be Mr Norton’s; except on this single subject of the Laws of Protection for
                        Women.* My youth has gone by in struggle and
                    vexation; much of it in bitter sorrow: the youth of other women may be saved
                    from such It is my
                        intention to follow this pamphlet by a selection of such cases as appear to
                        me most remarkable among decisions in the Courts of Law; bearing on the
                        general point of this want of protection. suffering, by changes in the law; and my writing on
                    that topic, while the law is admitted to be in a state of transition, may
                    (without over?rating my own power) have as much influence, as other individuals
                    have had in the gradual remedy of other defective laws. Such a hope has a
                    certain degree of happiness attached to it; even if the law be remedied too late
                    for me personally to profit much by the change.
                I come now to the history of the contract, in the attempt to evade which, Mr
                    Norton revived scandal, and braved this defence.
                In July 1848, my husband,—who had for years allotted me precisely what he
                    pleased,—desired once more to attempt to raise the Trust?fund alluded to at page 28; being the provision made on my marriage, for me
                    and my sons. To raise this money, it was necessary for him to obtain my written
                    consent. He applied to me accordingly: and I requested him, in exchange, to
                    execute a deed of separation, and secure me an income of 600
                        l.
                        pound
                     a year; (which I had been assured was the minimum of
                    allowance that would have been granted, if I had been in a position to sue for
                    alimony. )
                Mr Norton’s reply was merely haggling as to terms: he would not give 600
                        l.
                        pound
                     but he would give 500
                        l.
                        pound
                    : and I must give my consent at once, to raise the Trust?fund. He
                    employed my invalid son, who had just returned on leave from Lisbon, to press
                    this upon me; and to explain that he wanted the money immediately, to improve
                    the estate left to him by Miss Vaughan. As soon as my son interfered, I made
                    haste to yield: I wrote to Mr Leman, who acted as solicitor for my trustees, to
                    say that I consented to all Mr Norton proposed,—“mainly because
                        it is intolerable to me to have my son talk over matters of this kind, from
                        his father.” But I entered on the arrangement with a distrust which
                    subsequent events have proved to be most amply
                    justified. I could not but remember the numerous occasions on which Mr Norton
                    had shown that no possible reliance could be placed on his word; and I shocked
                    Mr Leman, by expectations openly and repeatedly expressed that my husband would
                    “cheat” me. Every one of the letters I wrote on this business, contained that
                    truly prophetic warning. The first hitch occurred, from Mr Norton insisting that
                    the deed which was to be only prospective, for me, should be
                    guaranteed retrospectively (for a period of no less than ten
                    years), as far as his own pecuniary advantage was concerned. This was utterly
                    refused, and the guarantee I had named declined to act. Mr Leman told me, that
                    without a guarantee the deed of separation he had prepared, would be invalid. I
                    answered that if I could not obtain a legal separation, I supposed some other
                    kind of deed or bond could be executed; by which Mr Norton could be “ BOUND:” and that I was to see a legal friend whom I would
                    consult on the subject.
                That legal friend was Sir Frederick Thesiger; who consented, at my earnest
                    request, to receive Mr Norton at his chambers. Having seen him, Sir F. Thesiger
                    wrote to me that my husband would execute a deed of separation: that he did not
                    require guarantees, but insisted on my acceding to the condition of his
                    retrospective advantage; which no guarantee would have acceded to; but which he
                    declared I, personally, had promised him. Sir F. Thesiger then added,—“if he is
                    correct in this statement”—“assuming the accuracy of Norton’s assertion.”—“I
                    should venture to recommend you not to aim at any alteration of the terms, but
                    to embrace the offer now made, of giving you the security of a deed of
                    separation; which you have so long earnestly desired, and which I trust, will
                    have the effect of placing you in a situation of more complete tranquillity than
                    it has been your lot to enjoy for many years.”
                I did then what I was advised; I yielded the point of retrospective protection. I
                    agreed, that for ten years past, and for all
                    years to come, Mr Norton should never be troubled with any debt of mine; he
                    agreeing in future to pay 500
                        l.
                        pound
                     a year. I told Mr Leman I would be content with such a deed, signed by
                    Mr Norton and witnessed by Sir F. Thesiger; and I left town on a visit to Lord
                    Rutherford, the then Lord Advocate of Scotland. The new deed was sent to
                    Scotland for me to sign. I obeyed; and returned it by post. It never occurred to
                    me as possible, that the instrument was valueless. If I had thought so, I would
                    not have gone through the ridiculous farce of signing it. I received it as the
                    valid substitute for the unexecuted deed previously thrown aside; and as a
                    settlement for life. Mr Norton, in his published letter, says that
                        he knew at the time, it was invalid. If so, he was guilty of
                    deliberate fraud: for the deed pretended to make permanent conditions, and
                    included the contingency of his succeeding to the peerage by surviving his
                    brother. Even the lately disputed chance of my providing for debt beyond the
                    allowance so secured,—by literary or other resources,—had been duly
                    contemplated: Sir F. Thesiger had written to Mr Leman to guard against Mr
                    Norton’s interference in such a case, in these terms:—“I foresee the germs of
                    endless differences if it were to be permitted ... The spirit of the agreement I
                    understand to be, that a certain provision should be secured to Mrs Norton; that
                    Mr Norton should be discharged from all liability for her debts, and that
                    neither should trouble or interfere with the other.” That was also my exact
                    understanding of the case; and Mr Norton hastened to give this earnest assurance
                    in reply. “I can have no wish to interfere with Mrs Norton’s affairs: still less
                    with her debts: you may bind me as stringently as you please not to interfere
                    with her affairs. I shall pay her allowance under the deed, with the same
                    regularity I have paid her previous allowance.” I had yet to learn how easily I
                    had been outwitted! On the strength of the momentary value of my
                    signature, Mr Norton instantly raised the money
                    he wanted; and left me to ascertain at leisure what was the value of
                        his signature.
                Late in the same autumn I received news from Lisbon, that my son was considered
                    by the physicians there, to be dying: and I hurriedly proceeded to London to
                    make preparations for going out to join him. While I was thus anxiously
                    occupied, intelligence reached me of the dangerous illness of Lord Melbourne,
                    and he died about a fortnight before I sailed for Portugal. I returned the
                    ensuing year to England. My son was better, and accompanied me home: my mother
                    was then ill, but she rallied and temporarily recovered. I went with my son to
                    Germany and Belgium; returned again to England; and in June, 1851, my mother
                    died.
                At her death, Mr Norton inherited the life?interest of my portion from my father,
                    which had not been secured to me in any way: and I
                    inherited,—secured to me most carefully, guarded from the rapacity of my
                    husband, by every expression in my mother’s will,—and income for life of 480
                        l
                        pound
                    . As soon as Mr Norton found I had this legacy, and six months before I
                    received one farthing from it, he wrote that he could no longer pay me the sum
                    secured (as I imagined) by the deed of agreement we both had signed; and he
                    begged to inquire what deduction I myself would propose in my allowance,—“such deduction to commence from the time that I should
                        receive any money under my mother’s will.” I replied, that I could
                    propose no deduction; that my mother’s bequest was expressly intended as an
                    addition, to eke out the meagre allowance he made me, and not as a substitute
                    for such allowance; that years of litigation, dispute, and debt, the illness of
                    my son, and my constant journies and residences abroad, in consequence of such
                    illness,—had crippled my means; that my mother’s assistance was intended for me
                    and for my sons; (not for the husband who had ruined and wronged me in the days
                    of my youth, when all the love of my family, and all the law of England, failed to protect me against him). Mr Norton
                    rejoined, that what I would not yield, he would take; that I should either
                    consent to his deducting 200
                        l.
                        pound
                     a year as his advantage from the 480
                        l.
                        pound
                     left to me, or he would not give me anything; that I could not compel
                    him; that as to the agreement Mr Leman had drawn up, he defied me to prove it
                    valid “as, by law, Man and Wife were one, and could not contract with each
                    other; and the deed was therefore good for nothing.”
                I reminded him that the deed was in fact a matter of bargain, as he had expressly
                    urged its being drawn up, in order to obtain my signature to raise the
                    trust?money he wanted—that he had had his advantage, and that it
                    was most dishonourable to evade the covenant as regarded me. Mr Norton laughed
                    at the argument, and stood to the fact, that in law I could not
                    help myself, and that the deed was valueless.
                I inquired whether this was true, and was informed that Mr Norton probably
                        could evade the performance of his covenant;—because the
                    fiction of the law was, that “man and wife are one,”—and not two contracting
                    parties—that he was not bound therefore “in law,” only “in honour.”
                I asked what I could do under the circumstances; and was told that I might refer
                    the creditors I could not pay, to Mr Norton, and so take the chance of its being
                    decided that he was liable, upon their suing him. I was extremely loth and
                    unwilling to do anything. I did not believe that the deed could be proved null;
                    or, if it could, that Mr Norton would brave the shame of publicly asserting his
                    own signature, set to an instrument drawn up by a lawyer, under his own
                    directions, to be worthless. A gentleman, a barrister, a magistrate: I decided
                    in my own mind that it was impossible: that it was an empty threat,
                    to induce me to share the legacy with him. I thought I would give him time. I
                    was anxious about my second son, who had hitherto been robust, but who had been
                    suffering a good deal. I wanted to take him away to join my other son at Naples:
                    to have one of the gleams of peace in my
                    tormented life, which I can at least enjoy with them. I could not
                    go away, if I entered on lawsuits with Mr Norton. I therefore merely attempted
                    to draw my usual allowance at Mr Norton’s bankers, according to the contract;
                    was refused; borrowed from my own bankers, under my brother’s security, a sum of
                    money for my journey,—and left England.
                I certainly gave Mr Norton ample time to consider whether he would act honestly
                    or not; I gave him nearly a year and a half; from March 1852 (when
                    he balanced my receipt of my mother’s legacy by stopping my allowance), till
                    August 1853; when I was compelled to appear in the County Court. Neither during
                    that time, nor since, has he paid one farthing. The LAW
                    has enabled him to defraud alike the dead and the living, and my mother might
                    just as well have left the money unsecured, which he thus seizes by deduction.
                    Even the statement that he would pay a minor sum, turned out to be false; I
                    tested it, by giving a cheque to Sir A.D. Gordon for the whole amount, and
                    afterwards to Mr Thrupp (the creditor who lost his cause), for a small
                    proportion of the amount; and both those cheques were returned unpaid upon my
                    hands.
                When I returned to England, I had still hoped and endeavoured to avoid any public
                    law struggle with Mr Norton. I sent for his cousin, Mr Norton of Elton, and
                    explained the case to him; desiring him to advise Mr Norton. I once more
                    appealed to the wearied?out patience of Sir Frederick Thesiger. He heard me with
                    more indulgence perhaps than I deserved, considering the irritation under which
                    I was labouring at the position of affairs; unable to pay what I owed;
                    frustrated in my efforts to assist either my sons or myself; and defied by Mr
                    Norton as to the deed which I believed had closed for life all
                    discussions between me and my husband. But though Sir Frederick heard me
                    patiently, he declined seeing Mr Norton; to whom, he said, he had become a total
                    stranger; that it was very long since he had met him, and then not in society. I
                    wrote, after that, to Mr Norton’s own
                    solicitor, in the forlorn hope that he might be acting against advice. I settled
                    the first action brought against Mr Norton by promising to pay it myself, with
                    all expenses, as soon as that should be possible. I had been subpœnaed as
                    witness, in that and other cases; and I must observe, (for many persons
                    misunderstand this), that attendance of subpœna is compulsory, not voluntary. Mr
                    Norton, in the subsequent case that came into court, subpœed a person who had
                    been my maid; subpœnaed my bankers; compelled them to produce their books, and
                    sent his attorney to make extracts at their bank, of all sums entered in my
                    private account. He also subpœnaed my publishers; to compel them to declare what
                    were the copyrights they held of me, and what sums they had paid me.
                It is not to be supposed that these gentlemen had any pleasure in coming forward;
                    or volunteered to uphold a defence grounded on a disgraceful
                    quibble. They attended,—as I attended,—on subpœna; a legal summons,
                    the punishment for disobeying which is a fine, or imprisonment for contempt.
                    Subpœnaed again,—in a fresh action,—my last effort, through the solicitor, was
                    to warn Mr Norton that I was already in debt to my banker, and could pay no
                    other creditor. I received for answer merely, that he “declined all discussion
                    on the subject.” I then made up my mind to bear what must be borne, and went
                    into court (as I imagined), merely to answer a few formal questions, the pain of
                    which consisted in being obliged to prove, thus publicly, that my husband had
                    cheated me. I expected to have to prove the contract; to prove his signature; to
                    hear Mr Leman (who was also subpœnaed), prove the circumstances under which it
                    was drawn out; to admit the debt; to show that I had no fund but this withheld
                    allowance to pay it with; and then to hear it decided, either that Mr Norton
                        was legally liable or that he was not. I had the
                    opinion of an able solicitor that he would be held liable. I had the opinion of
                    the distinguished Queen’s counsel who accompanied me into court, that he
                        would not; and I was prepared for the
                    possibility of an adverse legal decision: what I was not prepared for, was the
                    scene that followed.
                My husband had resolved how to fight this battle. He entered the court attended
                    by counsel. (I believe counsel had not been thought necessary on the other side,
                    which was conducted by Mr Dod, Solicitor to the Society for the Protection of
                    Trade.) When I first saw my husband, my courage sank; the horrible strangeness
                    of my position oppressed me with anger and shame; my heart beat; the crowd of
                    people swam before my eyes; and the answers I had begun to make, and the
                    declarations I had intended to struggle through, choked in my throat, which felt
                    as if it were full of dust. It would have been well for Mr Norton, if he had not
                    then eagerly seized an imaginary advantage. He rose, gathered up his papers, and
                    saying with a sneer—“What does the witness say? Let her speak
                        up; I cannot hear her;” he came and seated himself close to me; there
                    was only the skirting board that divided the court, between us. THE WITNESS heard HIM. That which he did
                    still further to abash and intimidate me, had precisely the contrary effect. I
                    saw the glare of the angry eyes I remembered long ago in my own home; the sneer
                    of triumph, and determination to crush me at all hazards. I felt, as I looked
                    for an instant towards him, that he saw in me neither a woman to be spared
                    public insult, nor a mother to be spared shameful sorrow,—but simply a claimant
                    to be non?suited; a creditor to be evaded; a pecuniary incumbrance he was
                    determined to be rid of. More than one of the professional gentlemen present,
                    appealed to the Judge whether he should be “permitted,” to sit where he had
                    placed himself; but there he continued to sit; instructing his counsel in an
                    undertone what questions to put to me,—making written notes on the case,—and
                    occasionally peremptorily addressing me himself. In my heart, scorn and
                    desperation took the place of fear. The case was a claim for 47
                        l.
                        pound
                    , for repairs of a little carriage in use for twelve years. I was examined; and began by stating
                    that I had already stopped one case against my husband at my own expence; that I
                    appeared in court against my will, subpœnaed by the creditor, whose account I
                    had paid in part, and would have paid entirely, if Mr Norton had not stopped my
                    allowance. Mr Norton’s counsel, Mr Needham, endeavoured to prevent this
                    statement. He then cross?examined me, assisted by Mr Norton; apparently to try
                    and prove that I was extravagant. I was questioned how many servants I kept;
                    whether they were of an expensive class; whether I ever ventured to ask my
                    friends to dinner; and what I needlessly spent on the education of a poor orphan
                    girl, confided to my care by the clergyman of her parish (brother?in?law to the
                    minister of the chapel Mr Norton and I attended in Westminster). This charity
                    seemed especially to irritate Mr Norton. I was cross?examined about it, with the
                    most sneering severity; it seemed as if I could have no right
                    either to the pleasures of hospitality,—or the luxury of doing good; but that
                    every farthing not absolutely necessary to put a meal into my own mouth, ought
                    to have been saved up and made over as a free gift to the husband who had
                    blighted my whole existence. In vain I assured Mr Needham that the orphan was
                    going out to service, and that teaching her to write and read, had
                        not been expensive: a charity which did not come out of the
                    poor’s?box in the magistrate’s court, was incomprehensible to Mr Norton; and in
                    daring to perform it, I had wronged and robbed him. It never seemed to occur,
                    either to Mr Norton or Mr Needham, that whatever I had expended, was mine to
                    expend; that I did not owe a penny I could not have paid, but for my husband’s
                    dishonesty; that whether my money was disbursed for charity,—or hospitality,—or
                    even luxury, (if they could have proved such a thing),—instead of being
                    principally expended in travelling with and invalid son; and whether it was the
                    result of legacies, or literary industry; it was my own current income; 500
                        l.
                        pound
                     a year of which, being seized by Mr
                    Norton, alone created for me any difficulty. It never seemed to occur to them,
                    that the question was not whether my husband should provide for me; but whether
                    he should cheat me of a covenanted debt, on the quibble that he
                    could not contract with his WIFE. That if he had
                    contracted to pay this money to the Duke of Bedford,—instead of to me,—he could
                    not have disputed the debt on the ground that the Duke was already so well off,
                    that it was unnecessary to pay him; even on proof of all the large hospitalities
                    of Woburn. As a matter of justice, the ground taken was simply ridiculous; and
                    perhaps they felt it to be so; for, after vainly arguing that I ought to have
                    spent less, (and so made a sort of nest?egg and provision against the event of
                    my being defrauded); that ground was shifted, and the sources of my income
                    examined into. Mr Norton, who left me, when we first parted, without any
                    provision at all for two years,—who had insisted, at the time of our contract,
                    on a retrospective advantage for himself, through the whole period of our
                    separation,—and who still holds property of mine, which no referee could
                    persuade him to give back;—took, not an average of the past, but such selected
                    years as he pleased from the banker’s books, adding in (as income)
                    the money, still unpaid, which I had borrowed of them; while Mr Needham, not
                    being familiar perhaps with the lines,— 
                        “Lieto nido—esca dolce—aura cortese
                        Bramano i cigni; e non si va in Parnaso
                        Con le cure mordaci;”
                    or not being of the poet’s opinion as to the fate of— 
                        “Chi pur sempre
                        Col suo destin garrisce e col disagio—”
                    bravely added, that I must make at least 500
                        l.
                        pound
                     a year by my writings!
                All this I could have borne; and almost smiled at it; false and foolish as it
                    was; and wide of the real question, whether Mr Norton should break his written
                    bond or not. But I was not so to be released. “The children of darkness are
                    wiser in their generation than the children of
                    light;” and those who had to defend fraud, felt that so it would be but
                    ill?defended; and that the clear light would fall on a gross breach of faith. Mr
                    Norton has had more than half a century’s experience of this world; and he knew
                    better how to evade its judgment. He knew what the introduction and revival of
                    the old scandals about Lord Melbourne, would be worth in such a case. He knew
                    how instantly attention would be called off the real question of our contract,
                    to animated disputes whether the verdict given in that memorable trial had or
                    had not been a just one; whether I was or was not a wanton; whether I had or had
                    not done well in accepting any legacy from the defendant in that action. He knew
                    what clouds of dust would rise with that old story, to confuse the eyes that
                    might otherwise see clearly; and he,—whose own income consisted of:—
                
                    1. A place of a thousand a year given by LORD
                        MELBOURNE:—
                    2. An Estate in Yorkshire left him by the woman whose seizure of my
                        children caused our last quarrel :—
                    3. The Trust?fund from which he had borrowed, by means of my signature to
                        the very contract disputed in court:—
                    4. The portion bequeathed me by my father:—
                    5. The Recordership of Guildford; a salary for sitting in judgment on
                        other men:—(!)
                
                He came forward in Court, to affect a scrupulous delicacy,—that the wife on whom
                    he had closed the door of her home “with the chain across:”—whom he had
                    prosecuted for divorce and then wooed to return to him:—whom he himself had
                    endeavoured to make the wife of Lord Melbourne, by criminating evidence totally
                    unfit for belief;—should accept assistance from that dead friend’s family, to
                    half the amount he himself still drew, from the place Lord Melbourne had given
                    him!
                Greater hypocrisy than the pretence, surely never existed: and a greater
                    falsehood than that by which the pretence was supported, certainly never was
                    told; for Mr Norton coolly as? serted that he
                    never would have made the allowance in the contract, if I had not “given him the
                    most solemn assurance that I would receive nothing from Lord Melbourne.”
                I made a brief emphatic answer, to this deliberate misrepresentation. I
                    said:—
                
                    “I stand here on my OATH,— and I say that that is
                        false.” For a moment, I was bitterly tempted to add these further words: “Will Mr Norton also consent to be SWORN?” But I refrained. I appealed to Mr Leman’s
                        testimony, whose evidence was taken on oath as witness in the case,—and who
                        accordingly deposed that no such stipulation ever was made; and that he
                        himself had drawn up the contract with all its conditions, at Mr Norton’s
                        own request. Mr Leman added,—with much emphasis and feeling—that though,
                        legally, he considered the agreement might not stand, he certainly expected
                        it would have bound Mr Norton, “as a man of
                        honour.”
                
                From the moment the questioning began about Lord Melbourne, I lost all
                    self?possession. Not because I was ashamed of having accepted his bequest; if I
                    had thought there was shame in it, I should not have taken it:—but because I
                    then saw all the cruel baseness of Mr Norton’s intention. All flashed upon me at
                    once. I felt that I no longer stood in that Court to struggle for an income,—but
                    to struggle against infamy. I knew by sudden instinct, that the husband who had
                    so often, to me and to others, asserted that the trial was the work of
                    “Advisors” was now about to pretend he believed the charge brought
                    against Lord Melbourne in 1836. The wild exasperation came over me, which seemed
                    so inexplicable to those who did not know our real story. He, who had falsely
                    accused me long ago,—he who had taken my young children, and let one of them die
                    without even sending for me, till too late,—he who had embittered and clouded my
                    whole existence,—who was now in my presence only to cheat me,—(as I had foretold
                    he would do),—he was once more going to brand me before the world! I felt giddy;
                    the faces of the people grew indis? tinct; my
                    sentences became a confused alternation of angry loudness, and husky attempts to
                    speak. I saw nothing—but the husband of whose mercenary nature Lord Melbourne
                    himself had warned me I judged too leniently; nothing but THE
                        GNOME,—proceeding again to dig away, for the sake of money, what
                    remnant of peace, happiness, and reputation, might have rested in the future
                    years of my life. Turning up, as he dug,—dead sorrows, and buried shames, and
                    miserable recollections,—and careless who was hurt by them, so long as he evaded
                    payment of a disputed annuity, and stamped his own signature, worthless.
                I tried, at first confusedly enough (as the broken sentences in the reports
                    showed), but afterwards as connectedly as I could, to explain that Lord
                    Melbourne had left me nothing in his will; that I believed he could not, his
                    property being strictly entailed; that I had never been his mistress; that I was
                    young enough, to be his daughter, and that he never treated me otherwise than as
                    a friend: that the trial of 1836 was based on a false accusation; and that Lord
                    Melbourne had given his word of honour when living, to that effect: that, dying,
                    he had left nothing but a letter solemnly repeating that denial; recommending me
                    to the generosity of his brother, and stating the amount of provision he wished
                    made for me: that his brother and his sister had abided by, and fulfilled his
                    intentions, because his memory was dear to them; and none but my husband had
                    ever accused him of baseness. That I received what he had wished me to receive,
                    but that I held no legal security to oblige any one to pay it; “not even such a security as the contract Mr Norton had mocked
                        me with; drawn up by a lawyer and signed by that lawyer and my husband:”
                    that Lord Melbourne had relied on his family showing me this kindness after he
                    was gone, on account of the disgrace and misery I had most unjustly endured in
                    his name; and that they had done so. And certainly (if I may add to the
                    acknowledgment of that kindness, one selfish
                    comment), I think never woman had fairer claim on kindness; for if it had not
                    been for the scheme to oust Lord Melbourne as Minister, my quarrel with my
                    husband would have been arranged,—as other disputes had been; Mr Norton having
                    already owned to Sir James Graham, that he was ready, conditionally, to retract
                    what he had said against me. And if it had not been for Lord Melbourne’s
                    position afterwards, as Minister,—and above all, the embarrassment of his being
                    Minister to a young Queen, at the time when I was most eager to institute some
                    suit against Mr Norton that might have lead to my public justification,—I could
                    long ago have made my husband’s weapons of slander recoil upon himself, as I do
                    this day; and the trial of 1836 would have received that explanation which even
                        now I have given within the limits of a certain discretion.
                    Lord Melbourne repeatedly thanked me, for not moving in this matter; and for
                    him, and for his interests, I bore much which I certainly need not have
                    borne.
                When Mr Norton’s counsel had received answers to the questions he put, relative
                    to the supposed bequest, he paused; and then proceeded to cross?examine me, as
                    though he believed I had perjured myself. This gentleman’s manner of
                    questioning, was so insolent and offensive, that at one time Mr Hayward appealed
                    to the Judge on my behalf; and I was obliged to remind him that I was answering
                    him “upon oath.” He insisted that there had been some stipulation
                    with Mr Norton about this money. He endeavoured to show (in spite of my
                    denials), that it was secured, and was a legacy. He
                    said,—as if to confound me by proof,—“You received a certain sum in January and
                    an equal sum in July. Do you not know that the difference between these two sums
                    and the income Lord Melbourne left you, is made up by the Legacy Duty?” I said I
                    did not know what the difference was made up by; all I knew was, that the
                    payment depended on the pleasure (or the charity if he
                    pleased) of Lady Palmerston; and not on legal securities. Mr Leman
                    then explained that the difference was made up
                    by the Income Tax. In proportion as Mr Needham was baffled in what he had
                    intended to prove, he became irritated and uncivil: he said to me in so many
                    words, speaking of Mr Norton, —“You know you ran away from
                        him;” and, at another time, “It is not HIS fault you stand in the degraded position you do.” And it
                    was against the insult of this phrase, that Mr Hayward rose, and appealed. The
                    feeling in Court began to show itself in a strong and obvious sympathy for me;
                    and the case became more like a vehement debate, than a judicial inquiry. Mr
                    Needham lost even the form and pretence of adhering to the subject before the
                    Court (i.e. the debt and contract); and put
                    question after question about Lord Melbourne; what had become of his letters;
                    what had occurred with respect to him in 1836? Whether I had got my maid’s
                    husband, a police ushership through Lord Melbourne, (as if that was a wrong);
                    and when I said “No,” again adopted the manner of disbelieving my reply. In
                    utter exasperation, I alluded to the circumstances of the attempted divorce; to
                    the letters signed Greenacre, 
                        &c.
                        et cetera
                     and said— “If Mr Norton thought me unfaithful to him,
                        why did he write and adjure me to return?” Mr Needham replied, —“Pray confine yourself to my questions;” and I retorted,
                        “I told you to beware of your questions if you were afraid
                        of my answers: for seventeen years I have concealed these matters, and YOU force their revelation this day.” I then added,
                    that it was quite unnecessary to continue the debate about my means; that now
                    that I knew the contract could be disputed, and I and my creditors defrauded, I
                    should alter the scale of my expenses to a narrower economy: Mr Dod examined me,
                    to show that the annuity from my mother, was the real occasion of Mr Norton’s
                    breach of contract: Mr Leman was examined to prove that there had been no
                    condition whatever, respecting Lord Melbourne, either written or verbal: and the
                    Judge decided (not on the validity of the contract, but on the point that the
                    allowance had not been stopped when this particular debt was incurred), that
                        the creditor should be non?suited. Mr
                    Norton then vehemently addressed me—the Judge—the reporters for the press:— he
                    said I had told the grossest falsehoods (I having been examined on oath): that
                    he only regretted he had no opportunity at present—that he hoped at some future
                    opportunity, to “give the contradiction that from his heart and soul he could
                    give.” He moved still nearer to me; clenched his hand, and spoke in a
                    threatening manner; but the groaning, and utter confusion in Court, made it
                    difficult even for me to gather exactly what his threats were, except that they
                    had reference to the hope of some fresh occasion for debate. The Judge ordered
                    the Court to be cleared, and the next cause called on: and so ended this
                    disgraceful scene.
                In Mr Norton’s memorable letter to the ‘Times’ (which I shall presently give), he
                    sneers at the evidence of my distress and agitation that day, as a piece of
                    ‘acting.’ Having himself experienced no touch of pity, tenderness, or honourable
                    sense of degradation,—the reverse was a mystery he could not solve. It could
                    only be acting. What was there to feel any distress about? What?
                In the sudden echo of the shame?struck and grieving days of the trial, long ago,
                    (when at least life lay before me); and in the consciousness that I had, as I
                    have said, no second youth to wear away in a sort of struggling hope; but that
                    all was now over for ever. In the memory of the frank friend, whose
                    attempt to aid me was made the vile pretence of this dispute: who was dead; who
                    could no longer give his word of honour in my defence, nor listen patiently to
                    my complaining, and speak cheerful prophecies of my “living down” slander. In
                    the recollections knitted with the time of his death: the voyage to Lisbon: the
                    lonesome residence there, away from all friends: the refusal of my husband, even
                    when I was returning with a son pronounced dying by the Portuguese physicians,
                    to bear his share in any unusual expense,—to pay his passage home,
                        or even to refund a trifling debt borrowed
                    of the British Minister. What was there in all this? and yet this was the time
                    when Lord Melbourne’s brother placed that legacy to my account! truly I was not
                    thinking then of proud and fastidious scruples: I was thinking where we should
                    have to go next: to Madeira, or the Cape of Good Hope; to see my son die where
                    my father had died. I had already lost my uncle, who was generous to me, and
                    with whom I had found a home after the trial: the literary tasks on which so
                    much stress was laid by Mr Norton’s counsel, were utterly suspended: and I was
                    simply glad,—(let those sneer at it who please)—that with such a husband, and
                    such a destiny of never?ending troubles, the family of the man in whose name I
                    had suffered so much, were willing to prove, not for my sake but for his, that
                    his kindness to me outlived him.
                In the consciousness, then, of being made once more a subject of hateful
                    annoyance to that family; to whom I would fain have been welcome; and especially
                    of pain to Lord Melbourne’s sister, who at the very time Mr Norton was bandying
                    questions about her fulfillment of his privately expressed wishes,—and making
                    her adherence to them a theme for public scandal,—was in deep mourning for the
                    last of her three brothers.
                And a more tender, affectionate, and devoted, sister and friend, I verily believe
                    no brothers ever had.
                In meeting the husband from whom I was separated, as a FOE,—in open Court; he himself a barrister,—instructing counsel before
                    my face, how best to attack me; I having no counsel, and never having stood in a
                    Court of Justice before. In hearing my husband hooted and groaned at by the
                    crowd, when the case was explained: in hearing his assertion respecting his
                    breach of contract, proved false, by evidence tendered on oath; in hearing the
                    solicitor to my trustees tell him,—a magistrate, a peer’s
                    brother,—the father of my sons,—that it was expected the signed contract would
                    have bound him “as a man of honour;” or, in other words, that he was
                    not a man of honour; and seeing him shrink silently, unable to
                    repel this insult. In the stinging, maddening thought, of what the report of
                    that morning’s unexpected flood of slander would be to my SONS; whose first information of it would probably be (as indeed it
                    was), from the English newspapers; they being then at Naples:—and in the
                    knowledge of what it must be to all my own family, who had upheld me so
                    earnestly through previous defamation and sorrow:—
                In the regret (too late regret!) that I had not borrowed money from any friend
                    who would lend it, to pay my creditors; and allowed Mr Norton to seize all he
                    coveted; instead of believing that the fear of exposure would prevent his
                    disputing the contract (as it prevented his disputing my petition under the
                    Infant Custody Bill), and that at the eleventh hour he would decently pay what
                    as a ‘Man of Honour’ he was bound to pay—so that I should not have to come into
                    Court at all:
                In the grating, hopeless knowledge, that every fraction of all he had ever said
                    in his moods of desire for reconciliation, was false as the rest: and that there
                    he sate who had written me such caressing letters,—making notes of accusation,
                    and repeating,—for the sake of money,—slanders he had solemnly declared he did
                    not believe, sixteen years before:—
                In the horrible gulf of difference, between reading the evidence of a drunken
                    groom, in those vanished miserable times, and in hearing my own husband now echo
                    that groom’s voice;—seeing him cower, like that groom, before the proof of
                    truth, and the jeers of the crowd;—knowing he yet hoped, like that groom, that
                    his slander would be stronger than my struggle against it:
                In the bitter thought, that I might—(the destiny is not so rare among women) I
                        might have been married to some one with the heart of a man,
                    and the mind of a gentleman, who would have loved and sheltered me;—or even if
                    he had quarrelled with me, would have made warfare DECENT;—instead of standing, as I
                    did that day, shamed and slandered by my husband in person,—before
                    a wondering, curious crowd,—who no doubt, many of them, blessed Heaven that
                    their humbler homes were more “respectable” than that of this Lord’s brother and
                    his insulted wife:
                In the insolence of the cross?examining counsel; accustomed as I have ever been
                    to a most indulgent and high?bred courtesy, from men immeasurably Mr Needham’s
                    superiors; and to insult from none; except from those who have been fee’d for
                    the task by the husband who swore at God’s altar to “protect
                        me:”
                In all this, what was there to excite,—to grieve,—to render desperate,—to wring
                    the heart, and bewilder the brain?
                Nothing. It could only be ACTING.
                So Mr Norton affirmed. Whether his counsel also was of that opinion I do not
                    know; but it is impossible for me to quit this part of my subject without making
                    some brief comments on what is termed “the license of the Bar.”
                In this same year of 1853, much scandal was excited, by a case in which a
                    barrister having to defend a man for burglariously entering a house by night,
                    suggested in behalf of the burglar, that he might “perhaps” have had a love
                    appointment with the lady of the house! This extraordinary insult being
                    complained of, the barrister pleaded “license of the Bar.” Mr Needham copied
                    this gentleman’s fashion of defence; and laboured hard to prove it was somehow
                    my fault and my shame, that I had been cheated. When the case was over, he
                    tendered me a sort of apology, saying, that “however impertinent I might
                    consider his questions, they were within the limit of his legal
                    instructions.”
                Those instructions proceeding from Mr Norton, I am willing to believe the truth
                    of this assertion: but I will venture to tell Mr Needham, that a lawyer who has
                    the soul of a gentleman, does not consider he pawns it for the day, when he
                    takes his barrister’s fee; or that donning his wig and gown, trans? forms him into a creature taken out hunting in a
                    leash, to let slip upon the prey at the will of his employer. Refinement of
                    manner, depends upon the society a man happens to live in; but refinement of
                    mind, depends on those high instincts of honour and delicacy which belong to no
                    class, but to the truest nobility of nature. The hired soldier is bound to draw
                    his sword against the foe, but no man can compel him to mangle the wounded. The
                    “hired Masters of the Tongue?fence;”—as Milton calls lawyers,—should do their
                    trade more nobly. I depended that day, as to the legal decision, on a legal
                    quibble: but for the manner in which that quibble was sustained, I
                    depended on the courtesy of the English Bar, in the person of whoever
                    represented it for the hour. I hold therefore, that Mr Needham insulted, not me,
                    but his brethren of the bar, and the brilliant profession to which he
                    belongs,—(a profession which has produced more distinguished men than any other
                    in England,)—when, by his lame apology, he implied that while he pleaded as a
                    lawyer, he was obliged to forget he was a gentleman.
                After the proceedings were ended, and when we were discussing the extraordinary
                    defence falsely set up, it was suggested to me, that the comparative dates of
                    Lord Melbourne’s death, and the drawing up of the contract, would prove at once
                    the impossibility of what Mr Norton had asserted. I regretted that I had not had
                    those dates in Court; and after reading the evidence next morning, I addressed
                    the following letter to the papers:—
                
                    To the Editor.
                    Sir,—I ask your patience for this letter, in consequence of the unexpected
                        falsehood by which Mr Norton yesterday upheld his non?liability to my
                        creditors, in the County Court. Mr Norton there declared that his
                        stipulation with me was that he should be
                        liable only “If I received no aid from the late Lord Melbourne’s
                        family.”
                    The solicitor who drew up the agreement, contradicted him on oath—on oath he
                        stated that there was no such stipulation.
                    I contradict him on facts, which are stronger than oaths. Our agreement was
                        signed in September, 1848, and Lord Melbourne was then still alive;
                        therefore it is impossible that any stipulation should have been made as to
                        his supposed bequests. To save himself from the payment of 500
                            l.
                            pound
                         a year—due to my creditors on a formal covenant—Mr Norton has
                        uttered this falsehood; and raked up, from the ashes of the past, an old
                        refuted slander, on which for two hours yesterday he himself in person, and
                        the counsel he employed, examined and cross?examined me, on topics which had
                        nothing to do with the case, but which were to imply degradation and
                        shame!
                    Once for all, I did not part from my husband on Lord Melbourne’s account; nor
                        had Lord Melbourne anything whatever to do with our quarrel. I parted from
                        Mr Norton because I persisted in an intention to take my children to my
                        brother’s house, where my husband, on account of his own conduct, was not
                        received. My husband sent my children to a woman with whom he was intimate,
                        and who has since left him an estate in Yorkshire, and we separated upon
                        that. I had no other ground of dispute with my husband. The slanders
                        respecting Lord Melbourne were an afterthought.
                    So it was yesterday. Mr Norton did not make any such stipulation with me as
                        he says he did. There was then no question of bequests from Lord
                        Melbourne—for Lord Melbourne was not dead. Mr Norton broke his covenant,
                        according to his own letter, because my mother left me an annuity. He
                        introduced Lord Melbourne’s name yesterday to pain and insult me, and also
                        to draw off public attention from the fact of the positive fraud committed
                        on my creditors by his withholding the sum due to them. The year after the
                        action against Lord Melbourne, he besought
                        my return home, and my forgiveness, in the most endearing terms. He threw
                        the blame of the trial on Lord Grantley, Lord Wynford, and the political
                        party to which they belonged. If he believed the slander, he was base to
                        write caressing letters to persuade me to return to him; if (as is the fact)
                        he did not believe that slander, he is doubly base to invoke the name of the
                        dead against the mother of his grown?up sons, in a public court, by way of
                        excusing his violation of a solemn covenant.
                    All this, though it is life and death to me, may not interest the public. But
                        what does interest the public is the state of the law. By the law as it
                        stands, if Mr Norton can evade his covenant (as he does, by stating that it
                        is null because it was a contract with me, and “a man cannot contract with
                        his own wife”) he can defraud the creditor; for if a creditor sues me, I
                        have only to plead ‘coverture’ (plead that I am a married woman), and the
                        creditor who could not recover against Mr Norton is equally unable to
                        recover against me. Between the facts that because I am Mr Norton’s wife he
                        can cheat me, and because I am Mr Norton’s wife I can cheat others, the
                        tradesmen who have supplied me would (by the law of England) utterly lose
                        their money.* This does interest the public,
                        and is a state of the law which certainly requires amending. The case
                        yesterday was technically decided on this point, viz., that at the time this
                        particular bill was incurred, the allowance had not been stopped. The
                        validity of the covenant Mr Norton is attempting to break was not called in
                        question: and it does interest the public and the bar—whether it can be
                        called in question—whether, if not a A case in point has been lately decided; January 21,
                            1854, in the Court of Exchequer. A married woman, representing herself
                            to be single, executed a promissory note for one Brassey, and thereby
                            induced the Liverpool Adelphi Loan Association to lend him 30
                                l
                                pound
                            . It was ruled by the Chief Baron, that as a married woman
                            could not bind herself by a contract, no action could lie against her,
                            or her husband, for the breach of such contract; nor could she, or her
                            husband, be sued for the fraud on the association. How are the lenders
                            to recover their money? contract
                        with me, it is not a contract with my creditors—a written and stamped
                        agreement with them, made by a magistrate and barrister; because, as I have
                        stated, if it is not a valid contract, the creditor may be utterly cheated
                        of his money—if (which God forbid!), copying the example of Mr Norton, I
                        also should fling off, by a quibble of the law, my personal liability.
                
                Mr Norton, after a pause of a day or two, published an ‘answer’ of extraordinary
                    length; premising especially, that he did so—less in his private, than in his
                    public capacity; (his private character being “safe in the hands of those who
                    knew him.”) That it was, in short, as the person appointed,—by Lord
                    Melbourne,—to the Metropolitan Magistracy, that he proceeded to accuse Lord
                    Melbourne (now dead, and unable to contradict him) of every degree of turpitude;
                    from the seduction of his wife, to the appointing of a Treasury Messenger “as a
                    reward” for treacherously purloining his own compromising and inculpating
                    letters from Mr Norton’s house.
                But I will permit Mr Norton to speak for himself; and give his letter, as he
                    published it. He says, then:—
                
                    It is as a MAGISTRATE,—an Administrator of Justice
                        (according to my ability), that I come forward in the present matter with a
                        plain statement of facts, to prove that I have striven to be as just in my
                        private affairs as is my aim and desire to be in my public capacity! It is
                        with pain that I feel myself compelled to break that silence which the
                        forbearance of seventeen long years has made habitual to me; but I feel I
                        must now speak out, and that it would be treason to my character and fair
                        fame to leave all these accusations unanswered. I was subpœnaed on Thursday
                        last by the Messrs Thrupp, and when Mrs Norton had concluded her evidence, I
                        begged their solicitor to call me as a witness. He refused me that favour,
                        and, as the advocate of my opponent, I cannot quarrel with his discretion;
                        and perhaps it was better that the opportunity was not afforded me, for in
                        the distraction of the moment I might have been tempted to reveal matters with which, for the
                        happiness of others, it is much better the public should remain
                        unacquainted. My counsel was refused even by statement to contradict the
                        gross falsehoods which had been most illegally and improperly introduced
                        into the case. The question was one of liability, and the moment that Mrs
                        Norton admitted she was living apart from me by her own wish (and which she
                        did so admit at the beginning of her examination), there was an end of the
                        case, and all proceedings should have terminated. Unhappily, the judge and
                        everyone engaged for or against her in the cause seemed overpowered by Mrs
                        Norton’s demeanour, and those who had a turn for the drama (of whom,
                        unfortunately, my own solicitor was one), were suspended in breathless,
                        helpless inaction. None who witnessed that scene can forget it to their
                        lives’ end—all must remember it as the most splendid piece of ACTING ever exhibited; however much the sober mind of
                        England must revolt against the disgrace of a court of justice being turned
                        into the stage of Drury?lane.
                    My denials shall be as few as possible and as brief.
                    First. The agreement, or rather the memorandum, of 1848 was not a binding
                        one. Mrs Norton knew this as well as I did—at least, her own solicitor told
                        me it was not at the time we signed it; moreover, she did then try to make
                        the contemplated arrangement between us a binding document, by finding
                        trustees, but failed to do so, as not one of her relations or friends would
                        become her surety
                            .
                             
                        
                    One of Mrs Norton’s stipulations in the memorandum was not observed from the
                        very first, for constant applications have been made to my solicitor and
                        myself for the payment of her debts. Nevertheless, had our relative
                        circumstances remained as they were when we entered into it, I should have
                        continued to pay her 500
                            l.
                            pound
                         per annum. She was quite correct in court when she swore that her
                        non?reception of the annuity from Lord Melbourne formed no part of the
                        conditions upon which that agreement was come to. I never said it did. Lord
                        Melbourne was  then alive, and I had no
                        tangible grounds for then raising the question; but some short time
                        afterwards I was informed by a person, who shall be nameless, after the oath
                        that was given on Thursday (but I speak from recollection only, not having
                        refreshed my memory with the correspondence which passed between us at the
                        time) that Lord Melbourne had left a sealed letter for his brother, stating
                        that he (Lord Melbourne) might have given her an annuity upon the lands he
                        had himself acquired, but that he preferred leaving it to the convenience of
                        his brother to secure her in an annuity of 600
                            l.
                            pound
                         per annum, or some other sum, and he (the person alluded to)
                        added, that I might depend on this information, as he had it from one of the
                        executors. I was surprised and disgusted, and immediately wrote to Mrs
                        Norton, to inquire if she did receive that annuity. Her answer was
                        emphatically in the negative, and at that period she spoke the truth; for I
                        afterwards was informed that a difference had arisen between herself and the
                        representatives of Lord Melbourne as to giving up his letters, and which
                        letters, I was informed, it was insisted should be given up before the
                        annuity was granted.
                    I think it was not until the close of 1851 or in 1852 that I was informed
                        that she certainly did receive the annuity, when I again required her
                        written denial of the fact. She answered by saying that I insulted her by
                        repeating the question; but not being quite satisfied with the reply, I
                        requested my son Fletcher to speak to her on the subject, and assure her
                        that no insult was intended by the question, and that I insisted on an
                        explicit answer to it.
                    She then did explicitly assure my son that she received no annuity of any
                        kind from Lord Melbourne, and Fletcher added, from himself, that he was
                        fully persuaded, from her manner and words, as the truth of her assertion.
                        This must have been in 1852, or in this very year. Judge then, of my SURPRISE, when my solicitor ascertained, ONLY TWO OR THREE WEEKS AGO, that she had been in the
                        receipt of that annuity ever since 1849! I was not permitted at the trial to
                        enter into any expla? nation whatever on
                        this or any other point, but the few and hurried observations I did make had
                        reference to the continuance of my allowance to her one hour after such a
                        fact has been clearly brought to my knowledge. The confusion that prevailed
                        at the trial rendered it impossible for me even to explain the matter to my
                        counsel, and hence arose that part of the cross?examination which implied
                        that a pledge had been given before the signing of the memorandum.
                    It is true that in 1837 we contemplated a re?union. She had assured me that
                        she had taken the sacrament in attestation of her innocence of all
                        criminality; that assurance and other circumstances induced me to believe
                        her innocent of the last offence; but of the impropriety of her conduct and
                        total disregard of outward appearance, by which alone society can form its
                        opinion, no one who moved in our circles could doubt. My own conduct, I
                        admit, at that time was weak and vacillating in the extreme. I had loved her
                        to madness for three or four years before I married her, and after we were
                        united she had all power over me. But all idea of re?union was abruptly
                        broken off when certain tidings reached me of her sejour in the Isle of
                        Wight. From that moment my honour was outraged, and our re?union rendered
                        impossible. Judge, then, of my surprise within the last three or four years
                        to receive hints from her as to our living again together; one of these I
                        can distinctly remember. My son Fletcher was seriously ill at her house, and
                        I went there to see him. I was remarking to him that I was about to take a
                        new lease of my house, when she said, “What nonsense, when there’s a room
                        for you here.” Would any one believe that in 1849 such a proposal could have
                        come from the person who, on Thursday last, denounced me in the way she
                        did?
                    But to return to our money differences. When we first separated I divided my
                        income—then only 800
                            l.
                            pound
                         or 900
                            l.
                            pound
                         per annum, into three portions. One I paid into Messrs Ransom’s
                        for her support, the second I allotted for payment of our debts, and the
                        third for the three children and myself; and, after pay? ing their expenses, I had not more than 5
                            s.
                            shilling
                         per day for myself to live upon in town, having to attend to my
                        police court. In 1838, my cousins, Mr Vaughan and his sister, fulfilled
                        their deceased mother’s wishes by leaving me their Yorkshire estates, and I
                        immediately increased Mrs Norton’s allowance to 400
                            l.
                            pound
                         per annum, exclusive of her pension. She declined at first
                        receiving it; she preferred furnishing houses and disposing of them, and
                        leaving the tradesmen to bring their actions in the superior courts. At
                        least thirty suits were instituted against me for debts of her contracting.
                        In two cases only were the opinions of Juries taken, and in both the
                        verdicts were for me.*
                    But the expense of defending myself against such ruination was very heavy,
                        and I had to borrow, if I recollect, 5,000
                            l.
                            pound
                         or 6,000
                            l.
                            pound
                         in Scotland and elsewhere to meet it. In 1848 it was suggested
                        that it would be no saving of interest to borrow that money of the trustees
                        out of my patrimony, and notice was given to the bondholders in Scotland
                        that they would be paid at a certain time. Mr Leman prepared the mortgage
                        deed for the trustees over my Yorkshire estates; but after the preparation
                        of the mortgage had proceeded nearly to completion, and much expense
                        incurred therein, he told me he had discovered what he ought from the first
                        to have known—that the trustees could not lend the trust?money without the
                        permission of Mrs Norton and myself in writing, and he informed me, further,
                        that she would not give her permission unless I consented to give her an
                        addition of 100
                            l.
                            pound
                         to her allowance, making it 500
                            l.
                            pound
                         instead of 400
                            l
                            pound
                        . I was driven into a corner by this unexpected discovery, and I
                        had to submit to the addition. In 1851, my younger son’s expenses at Oxford
                        increasing, and my own expenses in Yorkshire being greater to keep up the
                        rents in the then depressed state of agriculture, I learnt that Mrs Norton
                        had been left 500
                            l.
                            pound
                         per annum by her mother, from whom I was not aware that she had
                        any See the strange
                            boast at pages 135?136, of the rejection of Sir John Bayley’s evidence,
                            by Lord Abinger, which produced this result. expectations. I then proposed to her a reduction
                        of her allowance, which she would not accede to; and, after she had received
                        her mother’s legacy and for some time enjoyed it, I did reduce it to 300
                            l.
                            pound
                         per annum, but which she has never accepted.
                    Now, as to her access to the three children. My first idea upon her leaving
                        me, was to place them with herself, and I never denied her reasonable access
                        to them; but she made three different attempts to carry them off—from
                        Storey’s gate, from Ryde, and from Wonersh; and she resolutely refused to
                        guarantee me against similar attempts, her object evidently being by every
                        means and pretence to excite public sympathy on the subject of the children,
                        and for which I gave her no grounds. I was responsible for their maintenance
                        and education, and I dreaded her intention of taking them abroad. I
                        therefore ultimately sent to my sister’s, Lady Menzies, in Scotland,
                        providing them with a tutor; they were thence sent to Dr Buckland, at
                        Laleham; thence the two eldest went to Eton; and the poor youngest died of
                        lockjaw, resulting from a mere scratch on the bone of his elbow by a fall
                        from his pony. He died at Kettlethorpe, my place in Yorkshire, and the
                        moment the first symptoms of lockjaw and of danger were discovered, I sent
                        immediately for Mrs Norton, but she arrived not until after he had
                        expired.
                    Both my elder sons stayed some years at Eton, and then Fletcher went to
                        Lisbon as attaché, with an outfit that cost me upwards of 400
                            l.
                            pound
                         and an allowance of 300
                            l.
                            pound
                         per annum, which he enjoys up to this moment. Fletcher was ill at
                        Lisbon, and Mrs Norton took Brinsley out there, removing him from Eton
                        against the advice of Mr Coleridge, his tutor, and myself. I had much
                        difficulty in getting him back to England, when I placed him with a private
                        tutor, Mr Heatley, to whom I paid 200
                            l.
                            pound
                         per annum to prepare him for college. He then went to University
                        College, Oxford, and, although I gave him an outfit, and allowed him 250
                            l.
                            pound
                        , the utmost sum Dr Plumtre advised, and which sum was afterwards
                        increased, he got into  such difficulties
                        that he is living abroad, and I am now at an expense for his support and
                        maintenance there. In addition to these allowances I have sent money at
                        various times to Lisbon, Germany, and Italy for the support of my sons. My
                        house has always been open to receive them, and they have not unfrequently
                        availed themselves of it as a home. During their whole lives I have paid for
                        their clothing, schooling, and support, with the exception of their viands
                        at those periods when they have lived with their mother, and it was one of
                        my many astonishments on Thursday to hear her unblushingly state that all I
                        had done for them was to pay for their education.
                    The history of the action against Lord Melbourne was shortly this:—I had
                        observed from the time of their close intimacy, Mrs Norton had taken less
                        interest in our then only child and in myself. On one occasion, I had seen
                        her arm round his neck, and when I remonstrated with her, she said, “Well,
                        and what if I had my Melly round the neck—what was it?” I was jealous, and
                        mentioned the matter to Mrs Sheridan, who quite lulled my suspicions by
                        telling me that he had been her father’s friend, and other circumstances;
                        and on the morning of the 30th of March, 1836, I had no suspicion whatever
                        that their intimacy was anything more than Platonic. On that morning Mrs
                        Norton left her home, leaving her letter?bureau, by accident, open, and I
                        saw piles of Lord Melbourne’s letters lying in it. She never showed me his
                        letters, saying letters were not meant for two; and knowing her
                        particularity about her letters, without looking at one, I locked the door
                        of the room in which they were, and, giving my servant Fitness the key, gave
                        him the most positive orders that no one should enter the room until Mrs
                        Norton returned, in order that she might see that they were untouched, and
                        just as she had left them. I then took my children to the country, but the
                        next day was surprised to receive a letter from Fitness, to say that Mr
                        Charles Sheridan, Mrs Norton’s brother, had come at six o’clock in the
                        morning and asked for some papers out of the bureau for a publication Mrs
                        Norton was then engaged on, and that he had permitted him to take them.
                    
                    I came to town immediately, and found that the bureau had been emptied of its
                        contents. I then for the first time suspected something wrong. I searched
                        about, and found a small writing?desk in the room which had escaped
                        observation. I opened it, and found the two or three letters of Lord
                        Melbourne which were produced at the trial, and one or two letters and
                        papers of a more suspicious character written by a gentleman at Eastbourne.
                        I scolded Fitness for his disobedience of orders. He said he had told Mr
                        Charles Sheridan of the strict orders I had given him, but Mr Charles
                        Sheridan said Mrs Norton must have her writings for the publication she was
                        then engaged on, and he then allowed him to go into the room and take them
                        away. He also admitted that money had been promised to induce him to given
                        them up, and I well remember my observation, that he had better give it to a
                        hospital or some charity, for it would never do him good.
                    Mr Charles Sheridan was subpœnaed at the trial to prove the abstraction of
                        the letters, and why he was not called I never knew. *
                    This very Fitness soon afterwards was appointed a messenger at the Treasury
                        as a REWARD for his treachery.
                    Sir W. Follett was a stranger to me, but in my emergency I showed the
                        documents found in the writing?desk to him, and by his advice I was guided
                        in all that followed. By his direction inquiries were first made respecting
                        the gentleman who had occasioned our immediate quarrel, and who had been
                        seen with her that morning, and then respecting one or two others, but no
                        sufficient evidence was found. Then a negotiation for a separation was
                        entered upon, and it was not for some weeks that the evidence of a man that
                        had been in my service some time previous came to my knowledge. That
                        evidence was discarded at the trial; but circumstances have since come to my
                        knowledge which He was
                            not called, because he could have proved this plausible story to be a
                            most wicked fabrication. No one was called who could have proved the
                                TRUTH. compel me to believe that he was the witness of TRUTH. It suited the defendant’s counsel in that action to give
                        it a political complexion, but I solemnly declare, upon my honour, that not
                        a single person of the Tory or any other party persuaded me to bring it, and
                        no communication whatever had I with Lord Wynford or any other person
                        connected with politics about until after the trial was over. Mr Currie, my
                        solicitor for the action, will vouch for this, and he is also aware of
                        certain solicitations made by both parties in politics that I would not
                        proceed with the action; he is aware how my witnesses were molested and
                        tampered with in town, and that it was at their own request that some of
                        them were sent to the country, where they were nevertheless followed and
                        persecuted.
                    I find, from the report, that Mrs Norton said on Thursday that I had claimed
                        the copyrights of her works from her publishers; this statement I have to
                        deny in the most direct and emphatic terms. I have never, directly or
                        indirectly, made any claim whatever to her copyrights, the benefit of which
                        she had always been allowed by me to enjoy without let or hindrance, and
                        until I was preparing for this trial I never even inquired as to the amount
                        of them. What did occur with respect to her copyrights was, that my
                        solicitor, to prove that her income has exceeded 1,500
                            l.
                            pound
                         per annum, did institute an inquiry among her publishers, several
                        of whom were subpœnaed to attend. I heard her refer to her copyrights, but
                        did not hear her use the word “claim”. I thought she referred to the
                        inquiries my solicitor had made, and consequently used the words, “My
                        solicitor did.” Had the word “claimed” actually reached my ears, I should
                        have doubted their accuracy in conveying to my mind so great a
                        falsehood.
                    A most absurd and false impression was given by Mrs Norton as to my signature
                        of “Greenacre;” the joke involved in such a signature was but a poor one,
                        but she forgets to state that it originated with herself, by her adopting,
                        in her letters to me, the name of “Hannah Brown.” With regard to another
                            matter, Mrs Norton, in her letter to
                        the ‘Times,’ uses these words:—“Because, as I have stated, if it is not a
                        valid contract, the creditor may be utterly cheated of his money, if (which
                        God forbid!) I should copy Mr Norton, and also fling off, by a quibble of
                        the law, my liability to them.” Mrs Norton, in this quotation, refers to the
                        plea of her coverture; now it so happens that within the last few weeks a
                        poor man, Peter Dooladdy, came to and showed me a notice that he had
                        received from the Westminster County Court, informing him that Mrs Norton
                        would plead coverture in an action which he had there brought against her
                        for wages due to him, and I understood that she has given a similar notice
                        to several others of her creditors.
                    Lord Melbourne promised me the appointment of police magistrate before he
                        visited at our house, or before, I believe, he even knew Mrs Norton. (!)
                    Lord Eldon had appointed me Commissioner of Bankrupts in 1827, and when such
                        appointment was abolished by the construction of the Bankruptcy Court in
                        1830 or 1831, I considered that I had some claim on the Home Secretary,
                        having received no compensation for the loss of my situation. I must add the
                        acceptance of the police magistracy necessarily involved the relinquishment
                        of my profession.
                    Mr Trail, the receiver of my rents, proved on Thursday that my income from
                        every source did not average 2,400
                            l.
                            pound
                         per year.
                    It is true, therefore, that the agreement of 1848, to allow 500
                            l.
                            pound
                         a year, was not conditional upon the relinquishment of an
                        allowance from Lord Melbourne’s estate. It is not true that I ever said or
                        suggested the contrary. It is true that after Lord Melbourne’s death, and
                        when I was informed of such an allowance, I required Mrs Norton’s solemn
                        assurance that she had never received, and would not receive, an income from
                        such a source; that at one time that solemn assurance was given; that at
                        another the bare suggestion that any such benefaction from Lord Melbourne
                        had been accepted was treated as an insult, and that nevertheless, upon
                        obtaining access to her bankers’ books, I
                        ascertained that she had actually received that allowance from Lord
                        Melbourne’s estate from 1849.
                    It is not true that I refused to perform the agreement of 1848 because it was
                        made between man and wife; but it is true that the agreement, having been of
                        a temporary and not of a permanent nature, and the amount allowed under it
                        being necessarily dependent upon the amounts of our respective incomes, I
                        did, in 1851, upon Mrs Norton’s income being increased by 500
                            l.
                            pound
                         a year upon her mother’s death, while mine was, from various
                        causes, diminished, propose to reduce the 500
                            l.
                            pound
                         to 300
                            l.
                            pound
                        , which I was afterwards willing to increase to 400
                            l
                            pound
                        .
                    It is also true, that down to March in the last year (1852), since when, and
                        from the year previous, the amount of the allowances has been the subject of
                        discussion, I allowed to Mrs Norton the undiminished sum of 500
                            l.
                            pound
                         a year; that, consequently, for several years she has—and that
                        even by her own admission—been in the receipt of an income of at least 1,500
                            l.
                            pound
                         a year, and always has had an income far larger in proportion than
                        mine; and yet she has incessantly contracted debts with numerous honest
                        creditors, very many of whom are at this moment unpaid, and instead of
                        applying her abundant means to the payment of these debts, has driven the
                        creditors to resort to me, oppressing me with litigation and costs, and
                        impairing my already crippled means, which should have been applied to the
                        maintenance of myself and my two sons, both of them just entering life. It
                        is under these circumstances that I ask on whom it is that the coarse and
                        serious charge of cheating creditors may be truly made?
                    I am, Sir, your obedient, humble servant,
                    10 Wilton Place, Aug. 23. G. C. NORTON.
                
                The first public notice of this astonishing series of fabrications, came from Mr
                    Leman. Having pointed out the utter inaccuracy of the portion that came within
                    his own knowledge, namely, the drawing up of the contract, he very courteously
                    proposed that it should be corrected by Mr Norton himself. That not being complied with, Mr Leman
                    addressed the editor of the ‘Times,’—briefly stating, that with the exception
                    that he had prepared the mortgage,—“the entire paragraph was untrue.” Mr
                    Norton’s solicitor having attempted some explanation in reply, Mr Leman
                    published a complete statement of the drawing out of the contract, together with
                    the contract itself; and concluded his letter by requesting those who read it,
                    to decide for themselves, whether the entire paragraph, with the exception made,
                    was or was not “untrue.”
                It was then my turn to repel the accusations published by my husband. I might
                    have answered, (as my brother’s solicitor had answered Mr Norton’s advertisement
                    in 1837;) “the whole of it is false;” for, to contradict every
                    falsehood would have been to contradict every line. I left much unnoticed. My
                    object was to keep clearly and steadily to this broad general
                    contradiction:—that neither our quarrel in 1836 or our dispute in 1854, had
                    anything whatever to do with Lord Melbourne. I left unheeded, then, the cold and
                    stupid sneer which stamped my distress in the county court as “acting”; and the
                    observations (made in a like spirit) as to my grief at first parting with my
                    children, being “a pretence to excite public sympathy;” though in the very same
                    sentence, Mr Norton narrates the lamentable death of the youngest, under
                    circumstances that might well wring the hardest heart. I left unnoticed the
                    whole fable of the seizure of Lord Melbourne’s letters, and the wicked
                    inventions respecting my Mother and Brother: both deceased. I left to the common
                    sense of those who might read Mr Norton’s letter, very many of his manifest
                    self?contradictions; such as calling on his readers to “judge of his surprise”
                    on finding, “only two or three weeks ago,” that I had the annuity
                    from Lord Melbourne’s family, and of his disinclination to continue my allowance
                    “for one hour” after he knew that fact; not perceiving, in his blind effort to
                    prove me base, instead of himself,—that his own data confounded
                    him:—that the simplest of his readers might 
                    ask,—“how came that which you say you had only known three weeks, to be your
                    reason for breach of faith more than a year and a half ago? How
                    comes the date of your breach of faith to be,—not the knowledge of that fact,
                    but the knowledge of your wife’s legacy from her mother? How came you
                    prominently to bring forward this matter of Lord Melbourne’s unsecured annuity,
                    as the cause of your conduct in March, 1852, when you now assure us, you only
                    became aware of it while examining your wife’s private account at her bankers,
                    in August, 1853? You examined that account in order to defend actions brought by
                    your wife’s creditors? You were then already disputing the contract
                    at law with her? On what plea? Certainly not on the plea of Lord Melbourne’s
                    annuity, for you say you did not know she had it. You were preparing your
                    defence without that additional fact? You learned it,—to your great
                    ”surprise“,—only two or three weeks before the action? That is your
                        statement. And that being your statement, is it possible you do not
                    see, that you have proved your wife’s case? That you have proved, that the
                    Melbourne annuity was not your reason (if indeed, any reason could
                    justify dishonesty); that her mother’s legacy was your reason; and that being
                    justly conscious of the shame your real defence would entail upon you, you
                    substituted a fictitious defence, which you thought might throw shame upon her;
                    and prevent, by its confused details, that public condemnation of your fraud,
                    which you felt must otherwise incur.”
                There are fifty other such discrepancies, but I will not enter into them; I will
                    not answer Mr Norton’s letter twice. I solemnly declare his assertions
                    respecting Lord Melbourne, my mother, my brother, and my sons, to be
                    all,—altogether, and equally, UNTRUE; and as my sons
                    cannot be expected publicly to contradict him, I can only hope that what is said
                    respecting them, will be weighed in the scale with all that is said (and utterly
                    disproved), of others. I will not discuss his cruel mention of them: bitter as
                    the temptation is. I give my answer to Mr
                    Norton’s letter as it appeared in the papers at the time. It contains so much
                    repetition of what has been already more fully recorded in this pamphlet, that I
                    print it rather as a record of what my answer was, than from the necessity of
                    its delaying the reader in this place. I would merely call attention to the
                    passage marked with three asterisks *** page 120
                    (disproving Mr Norton’s astonishing assertion that Lord Melbourne gave him his
                    Magistracy before he was acquainted with me); and I would beg especial notice of
                    the letters which immediately follow mine.
                
                    To the Editor of the ‘Times.’
                    Sir,—On Wednesday the 24th ult., a long letter from Mr Norton appeared in the
                        columns of the ‘Times.’ I did not expect ever to feel thankful for anything
                        Mr Norton would say of me; but I do feel most deeply thankful that he wrote
                        and published that letter. He has now deliberately given to the world, on
                        his own authority, and under his own signature, that history which I have
                        always refrained from giving, beyond the circle of my own friends; and he
                        has thus given me an opportunity of refuting slander, of which I should
                        sooner have availed myself, but that to do so completely, I have been
                        obliged to look through a mass of papers and correspondence, and I have been
                        too ill, since the day I had to appear in the County Court to make the
                        requisite exertion.
                    I pass over the charge brought against me, there and in Mr Norton’s letter,
                        of extravagance in my arrangements for a home for my sons and myself. The
                        charge comes ill from one who owes me 687
                            l.
                            pound
                        , and who does not even deny the debt, but merely says he cannot be
                        compelled to pay it, because, as was stated in Court, he is not bound by
                        law, but only “as a man of honour.” I pass the ludicrous attempt to fix my
                        fluctuating income at 1,500
                            l.
                            pound
                         a year, by “setting” my literary gains at a permanent 500
                            l.
                            pound
                         annually. Will Mr Norton and his counsel pay it, as well as “set”
                        it? Will they ensure me health, strength, leisure, and the frame of mind fit
                        for so calm an occupation? Will they 
                        state what they think my income from literary labour for the present year is
                        likely to be, in the turmoil, distress, and scandal they have brought upon
                        me? I pass the manifest mis?statement of Mr Norton’s own income, which I
                        could prove, by my marriage settlements, a statement of his former receiver
                        of rents, his own letters, and my own knowledge, to be nearly double what he
                        asserted it was. With all that, “the world” has nothing to do; and if Mr
                        Norton had confined himself to our pecuniary dispute, there would have been
                        no necessity for public complaint or private sorrow.
                    The charge I publicly bring against Mr Norton (who has brought so many
                        against me) is a far graver charge than any injustice in pecuniary matters.
                        I complain, that twice in my life he has endeavoured, on a false pretence,
                        to rob me of my reputation.
                    In 1836 I had a quarrel with my husband. Our cause of quarrel was whether I
                        should, or should not, take my children to the house of my brother, who
                        would not receive my husband. I persisted. My husband baffled me by sending
                        my children to the woman who has since left him her property, who threatened
                        to give me into the hands of the police when I went to claim then, and I
                        left town alone for my brother’s country seat. Such being our real quarrel,
                        I charge Mr Norton with contriving that the whole world should believe (as
                        they did believe) that my misconduct had broken up our home, that I was an
                        unfaithful wife, and that my lover was Lord Melbourne. He brought an action
                        against Lord Melbourne. The witnesses for that action were proved on trial
                        to be of the lowest and most degraded class. The chief witness was a drunken
                        discarded groom, who was then a rag?seller in Monmouth street: both he and
                        others were proved to have been sent down to Lord Grantley’s place, and to
                        have received a weekly stipend from his agent while there. The trial was
                        brought in 1836; nevertheless, no evidence was offered after the year 1833;
                        the servants living with us at the time were not called; nothing was heard
                        but the witnessing of the rag?seller and
                        his companions, who admitted in Court that they had received money. In spite
                        of all which strange advantages, and the fact that a woman is not allowed to
                        defend herself in these actions, the verdict went against Mr Norton.
                    In this present year of 1853 I have a quarrel with my husband. Our quarrel
                        is, whether I shall, or shall not, be compelled to cede a portion of my
                        mother’s bequest. I refuse. Mr Norton insists. I rashly count on being
                        certain to obtain a compulsory fulfillment of our agreement; which I
                        imagined to be binding. I find myself, on my return to England, without
                        funds to meet my English creditors. I stop one action against my husband at
                        my own expense. I write to Mr Norton’s own solicitor, in the forlorn hope
                        that Mr Norton is acting against advice. I come into Court against my will,
                        upon subpœna, compelled to appear, to prove the debt and agreement. Mr
                        Norton meets me there, in person, and by counsel, once more to fight his
                        battle against me with cruel treachery, once more to raise the ghost of that
                        departed slander, and to contrive that the whole world shall believe (as
                        they do believe), that Lord Melbourne was again the subject of our quarrel:
                        that some pledge, stipulation, or promise was made and broken by me, and
                        that that is Mr Norton’s excuse for his breach of covenant. I rebut that
                        imputation on oath, and by proved facts; and Mr Norton publishes, in the
                        ‘Times’ newspaper, two columns of abuse of the dead and living, including
                        coarse anecdotes of the mother of his grown up sons, which, even if true
                        (which they are not), he himself dates back to the time when we had ’“an
                        only child,” that is, twenty years ago. Shall the verdict not once more be
                        against him?
                    I was young when this slander was first raised; my children were infants. I
                        was one of a numerous and affectionate family; I had kind friends and a good
                        cause. I struggled like a drowning person against disgrace, and reached the
                        shore. Already these miserable affairs were half?forgotten by the world; and
                        in literary occupation, devotion to my sons, and the firm friendship  of those who knew my real story, I
                        thought to have spent the future of a stormy past. Mr Norton has not
                        permitted this. Once more he has dragged me into shameful publicity; but on
                        his own letter I will rest my justification, now and forever!
                    Mr Norton says, he comes forward “as a magistrate, and an administrator of
                        justice,” to prove he has been just, also, in his private affairs. In that
                        capacity, and with that view, he proceeds to make the following admissions:
                        he admits that we did not part on Lord Melbourne’s account; and that before
                        he ever made Lord Melbourne defendant in the action in 1836, he had already
                        endeavoured to establish a case, first against one gentleman, and then—I
                        give Mr Norton’s own printed words:—
                    “And then respecting one or two others, but no sufficient evidence was found.
                        Then a negotiation for a separation was entered upon.”
                    In all that followed, he says he was guided by the advice of Sir W. Follett.
                        Sir W. Follett is dead; but, fortunately, has left on record his
                        contradiction of this falsehood, as any one may ascertain by reference to
                        the ’Times’ of June 25, 1836, where it is contradicted, on authority, by
                        Messrs Currie and Woodgate. I have also a private letter from Sir W. Follett
                        (whom I wrote to reproach), expressly repudiating the idea of having advised
                        my husband. “I was his counsel,” he says, “not his adviser.” Perhaps nothing
                        can better mark the opinion of the trial of 1836 than the anxiety shown by
                        all parties to disavow their share in it.
                    Mr Norton admits that—after this public trial, and these private efforts to
                        establish court cases against “one or two others”—“It is true that in 1837
                        we contemplated a reunion,” and that the miserable jest between us was (on
                        account of my having feared to meet him in an empty house, as he proposed),
                        that we adopted in our correspondence the signatures of a man and woman, the
                        former of whom had been hung, for luring the latter to his house, and there
                        murdering her. He feels that this requires a little explanation, and
                        proceeds to say:—
                    “My own conduct, I admit, at that time was weak and vacil? lating in the extreme. I had loved her to madness
                        for three or four years before I married her, and after we were united she
                        had all power over me. ”
                    I was a very young girl at school, when Mr Norton proposed for me. I was
                        always maltreated by him from the earliest period of our marriage. I parted
                        from him in 1833, and in 1835, as my family can witness, for violence such
                        as is brought before police?courts; and I returned to him on his own
                        passionate entreaty that I not “crush” but “forgive him,” and that he “went
                        on his knees to me for pardon.” I was safe out of his power, and my
                        reputation unsullied, when he made this prayer; I returned, and five months
                        after this letter we were again definitively parted. That parting was
                        followed by the attempt publicly to disgrace me. After that public disgrace,
                        he did, as he admits, ask me to return to him. But that is not as he would
                        have the world believe, his only “vacillating” attempt at reconciliation. My
                        husband, who pretends to have loved me so tenderly, and thrown me off so
                        completely, did neither one nor the other. He maltreated me while with him;
                        and he has been in almost constant correspondence with me, and occasionally
                        a visitor at my house, down to the winter of the year 1850. Would any one
                        believe that two years after “our reunion was rendered impossible,” he wrote
                        letter after letter endeavouring to arrange for our living together again,
                        and speaks of “shielding me in a husband’s arms?” That at the time he
                        alludes to, he was endeavouring to resist my petition to the Chancellor to
                        regain possession of my children; that he then gave his solemn word of
                        honour to Mr Hardwicke, a brother magistrate, that he had not been raising a
                        fresh scandal against me; that he never ventured to defend my petition to
                        the Chancellor; that in his letters, two years subsequently, he begs me,
                        with coaxing expressions, to call in all copies of a pamphlet containing our
                        strange correspondence; and in one of these letters of 1842, speaks of
                        himself as “your Geordie of former and happier years!” That not only then,
                        but in all the years since, I can produce letters more or less friendly and
                        affectionate; asking services of me; thanking me for serving him; announcing the marriage of his
                        sister; full of phrases of jesting and affection; many beginning “Dear
                        Carry” and “Dearest Carry;” anxious about me; complimenting me; asking “how
                        my travelling alone can be obviated;” finally (for I weary over these
                        instances of caprice), in April, 1846, he begins:—“Your kind letter, written
                        in the good old spirit, which should never have been broken——;” and on
                        Christmas?day, 1846, exactly ten years and six months after the trial, and
                        six years after my petition to the Chancellor, he hopes my health is “crisp
                        like the frost”—praises my brother—signs himself “Yours ever”—and in another
                        letter begs I will embrace the boys “for absent me as well as for yourself!”
                        Is it possible to conceive, that in the face of all this, Mr Norton can so
                        depend on my not answering him, as to venture to print such mis?statements?
                        Is it possible he does not see that they leave him in this position: either
                        he disbelieves these calumnies, which nevertheless he reiterates to my
                        injury when it suits him; or, believing me to be a bad woman, he wishes me
                        to return home? It is indeed difficult to choose which alternative shall
                        save his honour!
                    The admissions he makes respecting the late proceedings in the County Court
                        are as extraordinary as his assertions. No one can read the evidence and not
                        conclude, that Mr Norton broke faith with me, because I broke some
                        stipulation made with him, and that that stipulation was respecting money
                        from Lord Melbourne. I was cross?examined on this point in a manner
                        impossible to endure, by Mr Norton’s counsel, who put the question to me
                        five times with little variation, and when for the fifth time I had
                        answered, on my oath, that there was no such stipulation, said sneeringly,
                        “Well, I am bound to take your answer.” Now read Mr Norton’s admission in
                        his letter to the ‘Times’:—
                    “She was quite correct in court when she swore that her non?reception of the
                        annuity from Lord Melbourne formed no part of the conditions upon which that
                        agreement was come to. I never said it did.” ..... “It is true, therefore,
                        that the agreement of 1848, to allow 500
                            l.
                            pound
                         a year, was not conditional upon
                        the relinquishment of an allowance from Lord Melbourne’s estate. It is not
                        true that I ever said or suggested the contrary.”..... “The confusion that
                        prevailed at the trial rendered it impossible for me even to explain the
                        matter to my counsel, and hence arose that part of the cross?examination
                        which implied that a pledge had been given before the signing of the
                        memorandum.”
                    Mr Norton is unlucky in his choice of legal assistance. When I said that my
                        copyrights had been claimed—the “benefit of which,” he says, “she has always
                        been allowed to enjoy”—he threw the blame on his solicitor, who had
                        subpœnaed the publishers; and when I complain of being all but accused of
                        perjury, he says it was the mistake of his counsel, to whom he could not
                        explain the matter—though he sat by his side, and suggested in an under?tone
                        almost every question that was asked me in Court. Nevertheless it is certain
                        Mr Norton did make this assertion, which he now says he did not make. Here
                        is the printed report, as given in the papers:—
                    “Mr Norton—The annuity of 500
                            l.
                            pound
                         was given by me only on this basis. I would not have given this
                        sum, or one farthing, if she had not given me the most solemn assurance that
                        she would not receive one shilling from Lord Melbourne.”
                    “Mrs Norton—I stand here on my oath, and I say that that is false. ”
                    The reports may be, and are, in many respects, verbally inaccurate; but Mr
                        Norton made the assertion in Court which he now denies having made; that the
                        whole cross?examination turned upon it; that all public comment and opinion
                        has turned upon it; that it stood as his excuse for breaking his covenant;
                        that it was at once his answer and accusation, in reply to any claim upon
                        him, is incontrovertible; and I so clearly understood it (as every one else
                        understood it) to be his answer to the charge of breaking the agreement,
                        that as soon as I had read over the evidence next morning, I sent a letter
                        to the ‘Times,’ proving that, as Lord Melbourne was not dead at the time the
                        agreement was made, the stipulation could not have existed. Mr Norton now
                        says he never “said or suggested the contrary.” I was cruelly and
                        insultingly cross?examined upon it, but that was only on account of counsel knowing nothing of the
                        matter. Now, read Mr Norton’s own account of the drawing up of this disputed
                        agreement. He ADMITS, that being desirous of
                        borrowing the trust?fund settled on me and my sons in case of my widowhood,
                        he found—
                    “That the trustees could not lend the trust?money without the permission of
                        Mrs Norton and myself in writing, and he informed me, further, that she
                        would not give her permission unless I consented to give her an addition of 100
                            l.
                            pound
                         to her allowance, making it 500
                            l.
                            pound
                         instead of 400
                            l
                            pound
                        . I was driven into a corner by this unexpected discovery, and I
                        had to submit to the addition. ”
                    What addition? if as he affirms in the next breath, he knew the agreement
                        “was not binding,” and that he could break it at pleasure? And if it could
                        be broken at pleasure, and bound no one, why did we sign it? He himself
                        establishes the reason why; and proves by his own statement, just given,
                        that instead of its being an agreement based on the stipulation that I
                        should have no other resources, it was a matter of bargain, for his own
                        interest; and so great did he consider the advantage to himself, that he was
                        willing to give for it (or to seem to give for it) an extra 100
                            l.
                            pound
                         a year for life! In making this apparent concession, however, he
                        says he knew, even at the time, that it was only apparent. He says that I
                        certainly wished to make it “a binding document, by finding trustees, but
                        failed to do so, as not one of her relations or friends would become her
                        surety.” I beg, on behalf of “relations and friends,” to contradict this. I
                        signed without sureties, because I received from Sir F. Thesiger (who, at my
                        earnest request, consented to see Mr Norton at his chambers on this
                        business), a letter dated 8 August, 1848, in which he stated that Mr Norton
                        would give me a deed, “without requiring guarantees.” Nor had I previously
                        named, or thought of naming, any but one member of my family, whom I had not
                        even consulted as to his willingness to be mixed up with Mr Norton’s
                        affairs.
                    Having given his account of the making of the covenant, Mr Norton thus gives
                        his account of the breaking of it:—
                    
                    “I learnt that Mrs Norton had been left 500
                            l.
                            pound
                         per annum by her mother, from whom I was not aware that she had
                        any expectations. I then proposed to her a reduction of her allowance, which
                        she would not accede to; and, after she had received her mother’s legacy and
                        for some time enjoyed it, I did reduce it” ......“I did, in 1851, upon Mrs
                        Norton’s income being increased by 500
                            l.
                            pound
                         a year upon her mother’s death, while mine was, from various
                        causes, diminished, propose to reduce it.”
                    By his own admission, then, no stipulation respecting Lord Melbourne was
                        made; and no mention of him was made in Mr Norton’s letter to me; which
                        letter distinctly states, that my brother’s solicitor having informed him I
                        had my mother’s legacy, therefore he will break the agreement. He does not
                        say, “you have had money given to you by Lord Melbourne’s family, therefore
                        I stop your allowance.” He says, “you have got a legacy from your mother;
                        share it with me, or I will force you to share it, by non?payment of what I
                        owe you;” nor was it “after I had enjoyed it some time,” but on the
                        contrary, at the exact date of the receipt of my mother’s property, that Mr
                        Norton fulfilled his threat: and as he expressly says that he did not know,
                        till he saw my bankers’ account, that I had Lord Melbourne’s bequest—he
                        admits that my mother’s annuity was his only reason.
                    Now this agreement, about which so much has been said, was based on the
                        single stipulation, not that I should be richer, but that he should be
                        poorer; poorer by one thousand a?year, being the value of the office to
                        which he was named by Lord Melbourne. My being richer certainly did not make
                        him poorer; on the contrary, at my mother’s death, the small portion I
                        derived from my father went to him, and not to me. He gives his own account
                        of my previous conduct in money matters; most plausibly, and most falsely;
                        the exact and witnessed truth being, that during the two years 1836 and
                        1837, I had not one single farthing from Mr Norton; that he then employed
                        Sir John Bayley, who had been his counsel, to arbitrate as to my allowance
                        and all other matters; that he would not abide by the arbitration; made what
                        allowance he pleased; and advertised me (to guard himself from further
                        liability) in the public papers— being, I
                        believe, the only person of his own rank in life who ever adopted such a
                        measure. I copy two sentences from a declaration with which Sir John Bayley
                        has lately furnished me, in contradiction at once of the whole fabrication
                        respecting my conduct in these matters:—
                    “I was appointed arbitrator on Mr Norton’s behalf, in the year 1837, having
                        been counsel for him; and thus became intimately acquainted with the
                        circumstances of these disputes. Mr Norton gave me at that time a written
                        promise to abide by my decision. He broke his promise, and refused to hold
                        himself bound by the pledges given.” .....“I consider Mr Norton’s conduct to
                        his wife, so far as it has come under my knowledge and cognisance, to have
                        been marked with the grossest cruelty, injustice, and inconsistency.”
                    It is with pain I approach that part of Mr Norton’s letter in which he has
                        chosen to make reference to our son. I think my sons’ names should have been
                        held sacred in this dreary quarrel; which began in their childhood, and
                        which their manhood finds unreconciled. My son is not yet in England; nor
                        was he in England at the time Mr Norton states he had these communications
                        with him. I utterly deny that I ever made him the channel of a falsehood to
                        his father; and I deny that I ever said or implied that it was “an insult”
                        to be supposed to be aided by Lord Melbourne’s family. I did say (and
                        perhaps others will agree with me) that it was the coarsest of insults when
                        Mr Norton talked of these affairs to my son; that I refused to discuss them
                        with him; that I denied Mr Norton’s right to question me, he having bound
                        himself “stringently,” in writing to my solicitor, never more to interfere
                        in my affairs from the date of the agreement; and Mr Leman has a letter from
                        me written at that time, stating that I consent to Mr Norton’s
                        proposals—“mainly because it is intolerable to me to have my son talk over
                        matters from his father.” That Mr Norton protested afterwards,—either
                        respecting a bequest from Lord Melbourne, or my mother’s legacy,—only proves
                        the truth of my warning to Mr Leman, that if it were possible for Mr Norton
                        to find an excuse for breaking his word, he would break it; as he had done
                        to Sir John Bayley.
                    
                    With respect to Lord Melbourne,—three years after the date Mr Norton himself
                        assigns to the anecdote he has thought fit to publish, he writes thus,
                        speaking of the woman who afterwards left him the Yorkshire property, and
                        who had invited him to dine:—
                    “I sent her a civil excuse, which was answered by a thorough love?letter;
                        indeed it is high time that I should sanction to a remarking world your
                        penchant for old men, by suffering this antique faux?pas.”
                    The post?mark of that letter is August 8, 1834. I do not know if Mr Norton
                        will persist that it is the remark of a jealous husband. In January, and in
                        February, 1836 (that is, one month before our final separation), Mr Norton
                        speaks of “the unparalleled kindness of Lord Melbourne;” and strenuously
                        urges me to write to him to press the appointment of a friend. I will not
                        enter into the fabulous history of the letters; Mr Norton forgets that as he
                        was then, by his own admission, occupied on “one or two other” names, it
                        could not be foreseen that these notes from Lord Melbourne would be
                        important; and the whole of that statement is false. With the exception of
                        myself, most of the persons Mr Norton maligns are dead, and cannot answer
                        him. Lord Melbourne is no longer here to give his word of honour that the
                        man he served when living has stated that which is untrue of his memory; but
                        I can very clearly contradict Mr Norton as to one statement, and I do so to
                        show what credence may be given to others. Becoming apparently uneasy as to
                        any remarks which may be made on the affectation of looking with abhorrence
                        on my acceptance of aid, while he himself receives one thousand a year from
                        Lord Melbourne’s appointment, Mr Norton asserts as follows: ***
                    “Lord Melbourne promised me the appointment of police magistrate before he
                        visited at our house, or before, I believe, he even knew Mrs Norton.”
                    And he gives this very plausible reason:
                    “Lord Eldon had appointed me Commissioner of Bankrupts in 1827, and when such
                        appointment was abolished by the construction of the Bankruptcy Court in
                        1830 or 1831, I considered that I had some claim on the Home Secretary,
                        having received no compensation for the loss of my situation.”
                    
                    Both these sentences are directly contrary to the real facts.
                    By Mr Norton’s express wish and desire, I wrote at that time not only to Lord
                        Melbourne, but to all those friends I thought might serve us. I wrote to
                        Lord Holland, Lord Lansdowne, the Duke of Devonshire, and others, to make
                        interest with Lord Brougham (then Lord Chancellor) to get Mr Norton a legal
                        appointment. This not appearing probable, we asked for a Commissionership of
                        Excise or Customs. We did not succeed in this second request any more than
                        the first; but when Mr Wyatt, a police magistrate, died, Lord Melbourne
                        wrote to me to offer the vacant magistracy. On the 18th April, 1831, Lord
                        Melbourne wrote me word that the Chancellor had sent his secretary to
                        inquire respecting this matter; and had intimated that he should expect Mr
                        Norton to resign his Commissionership of Bankrupts; Lord Melbourne added,
                        “this is not so agreeable, but still was to be expected, and is perhaps not
                        unfair in these reforming times, and I mention it that you may not be
                        surprised when you receive the intelligence.”
                    Mr Norton was disappointed, and demurred; he desired to hold both
                        appointments; I wrote again to Lord Melbourne to state this, and received in
                        reply the following note:
                    “House of Lords, Quarter?past Five.
                    “Take my advice, and make Norton write a line immediately to the Lord
                        Chancellor, giving up his Commissionership. What you cannot keep, it is
                        always best to give up with a good grace.—Yours faithfully,
                    “Melbourne.”
                    The statement, therefore, made by Mr Norton, is entirely fictitious; and if I
                        notice it, it is to ask what reliance can be placed on all the other
                        mis?statements in which blind wrath, imperfect memory, and utter
                        irresolution have involved him? Mr Norton calls his published letter a
                        “vindication:” a man of keener moral perceptions would have felt, when he
                        wrote it, that he was not writing his DEFENCE—but his
                            CONFESSION.
                    From beginning to end it is a tissue of degrading admissions, or incorrect
                        assertions: of which contradiction, I am thankful to say, does not rest on
                        my helpless denial, but on the clearest disproof.
                    
                    Mr Norton admits that we did not part on Lord Melbourne’s account in 1836,
                        but that he took then, as he takes now, any slander he could find, to
                        involve me in undeserved shame and disgrace. He admits that he solicited my
                        return after the trial, in a familiar, jesting, and caressing
                        correspondence,—even while he repeats as true the gross slanders of 17 years
                        ago. He admits that he had no stipulation whatever with me about Lord
                        Melbourne, on this disputed agreement; and he denies that he ever “said or
                        suggested” that he had any such stipulation. Such are his admissions. I turn
                        to his assertions.
                    Mr Norton’s appointment was not given or promised by Lord Melbourne before he
                        knew me or visited at our house, but, on the contrary, after correspondence
                        and intimacy; and it was not given as compensation for the loss of his
                        Commissionership of Bankruptcy, on the contrary, the Chancellor insisted on
                        controlling his own patronage, and gave notice that Mr Norton should not be
                        permitted to hold both appointments.
                    I did not put my husband to needless torment and expense by extravagance and
                        actions from my tradespeople; on the contrary, he broke his solemn written
                        pledge with his own referee, Sir John Bayley, and advertised me in the
                        newspapers, as Sir John Bayley can prove. Sir W. Follett did not advise the
                        trial, or the measures taken by Mr Norton; on the contrary, he publicly
                        disavowed him as soon as the trial was over, as the letter of Messrs Currie
                        and Woodgate is extant to prove. Mr Norton has not proved by his letter that
                        he has been “just in his private affairs,” but on the contrary, he has
                        proved himself as cruelly unjust as any man ever was, by meeting a true
                        claim with a series of libellous accusations, raked up from the past, to
                        slander the living and the dead.
                    I am content that these accusations should be taken at their worth; Mr
                        Norton’s word has been too recklessly pledged on matters easy of disproof,
                        to be trusted where evidence is wanting, and nothing possible but denial. I
                        say again, that henceforth and for ever, I rest my justification on this
                        published confession of Mr Norton’s; on its glaring contradictions in all
                        matters to which it refers; on its strange
                        admissions as regards his conduct towards me. Even on the showing of that
                        confused letter, our story stands thus:—that after bringing a divorce trial
                        in which he himself so little believed that he wooed me home again the next
                        year, he revives the slander which an English jury, the pledged word of the
                        deceased, and his own recal had refuted, with the bitterest expressions and
                        false accusations both against his wife and his dead patron. That he has
                        done this in the course of defence to a common action for debt; the simple
                        question being, whether he was or was not bound to provide and set apart for
                        a body of tradesmen the sum of 687
                            l.
                            pound
                        , the security for such sum being an agreement drawn out formally
                        by a solicitor; at his own urgent request; to procure an arrangement he
                        desired; signed by his own hand; and witnessed by two other persons. That he
                        cannot assert that he had any stipulation whatever with me, respecting Lord
                        Melbourne; my expectations from my mother; or my literary resources (all
                        three of which he gave as his excuse); neither can he deny, that as the
                        agreement embraced the contingency of his becoming Lord Grantley, it was
                        intended to be permanent. I complain that the original simple question has
                        been cunningly lost and covered, by the overwhelming scandal of Mr Norton’s
                        false defence. I resent, not his treachery at the broken agreement, but his
                        attempt to raise the laid ghost of a dead slander to shame me. I resisted it
                        with passionate despair, because, let a woman struggle as she will, fair
                        fame is blotted, and fair name is lost, not by the fact, but the accusation;
                        and I feel it more now even than in 1836, because then my children were
                        infants and it could not grieve them. Those who have commented on the
                        exasperation with which I answered in Court, would do well to remember that
                        I stood there, answering questions on oath which had no possible bearing on
                        the case; well knowing those questions to be put with the express view and
                        purpose of defaming me; knowing the charges implied by those questions to be
                        false; knowing (the most despairing knowledge of all) that Mr Norton knew they were false, even while he put
                        them; and that, instead of being allowed to prove the debt and agreement, I
                        was once more being insulted with the echo of the trial of 1836, with as
                        little just cause for the insult.
                    It is said, why all this scandal for a miserable matter of a few hundred
                        pounds? better any sacrifice than such a struggle. Very true; but when this
                        petty struggle was undertaken, no human being could have foreseen the
                        falsehood with which it was to be met, and out of which this scandal was to
                        grow. Others, judging where none can judge who do not know our history,
                        wonder I did not quietly take what Mr Norton asserts he offered. For that, I
                        can only appeal to Sir John Bayley, and to the evidence of Mr Norton’s
                        present conduct. If Mr Norton would not be bound by his written pledge given
                        to Sir John Bayley in 1837, nor by the formal document drawn up by Mr Leman
                        in 1848, is it credible that he would be bound by a mere assertion that he
                        would or would not place such and such sums?
                    I have done. There will always be those to whom a slander is precious; and
                        who cannot bear to have it refuted. There are also those in whose eyes the
                        accusation of a woman is her condemnation, and who care little whether her
                        story be false or true, so long as there is or was a story about her. But
                        juster minds, who will pause and review the circumstances Mr Norton himself
                        has published, will perhaps think the fate of that woman a hard one,—whom
                        neither the verdict of a jury, nor the solemn denial of a voice from the
                        dead, nor the petition of her husband for a reconciliation and oblivion of
                        the past, can clear from a charge always and utterly untrue. I did not
                        deserve the scandal of 1836, and I do not deserve the scandal of 1853. Lord
                        Melbourne did not tempt me then to break my wedded faith; and his name has
                        not now been the ground of a broken stipulation. On Mr Norton’s own letter I
                        am content that people should judge us both. Many friends have wished me to
                        pass over that letter in disdainful silence, as refuting itself; and
                        perhaps, if I were happy enough to be obscure and unknown, that would be
                            my course. But I have a position
                        separate from my woman’s destiny; I am known as a writer; and I will not
                        permit it that Mr Norton’s letter shall remain on the Journals of Great
                        Britain, as the uncontradicted record of my actions. I will, as far as I am
                        able, defend a name which might have been only favourably known, but which
                        my husband has rendered notorious. The little world of my chance readers may
                        say of me after I am dead and gone, and my struggles over and forgotten—“The
                        woman who wrote this book had an unhappy history;” but they shall not
                        say—“The woman who wrote this book was a profligate and mercenary
                        hypocrite.” Since my one gift of writing gives me friends among strangers, I
                        appeal to the opinion of strangers as well as that of friends. Since, in
                        however bounded and narrow a degree, there is a chance that I may be
                        remembered after death, I will not have my whole life misrepresented. Let
                        those women who have the true woman’s lot, of being unknown out of the
                        circle of their homes, thank God for that blessing: it is a blessing; but
                        for me, publicity is no longer a matter of choice. Defence is possible to
                        me—not silence. And I must remind those who think the right of a husband so
                        indefeasible, that a wife ought rather to submit to the martyrdom of her
                        reputation, than be justified at his expense, that I have refrained. All I
                        state now, I might have stated at any time during the past unhappy years;
                        and I never did publicly state it till now—now, when I find Mr Norton
                        slandering the mother of his sons, by coarse anecdotes signed with his name
                        and published by his authority; endeavouring thus to overwhelm me with
                        infamy, for no offence but that of having rashly asserted a claim upon him,
                        which was found not to be valid in law, but only binding on him “as a man of
                        honour.”
                    CAROLINE NORTON
                
                Mr Norton answered that letter. He answered it by admitting (what indeed he could
                    not deny) the falsehood respecting the appointment Lord Melbourne gave him,
                    which I had disproved by Lord Melbourne’s own letters; he called that bold,
                    cunning, and deliberate explanation of his acceptance of favours, a “mistake.” He said:—
                        “I had not, at the time of writing my former letter,
                        refreshed my memory by reference to documents connected with this point,
                        and, in writing about a transaction which happened upwards of 22 years ago,
                        I was led into this most unintentional MISTAKE.”
                    But he reiterated other “mistakes” about other transactions, which happened not
                    so many years ago. He published (to prove that he had brought the action against
                    Lord Melbourne by Sir W. Follett’s advice) minutes of a consultation noted by
                    his solicitor, Mr Currie: in which Mr Currie admitted, that Sir W. Follett said,
                    he doubted much if a verdict could be got, as witnesses of the description Mr
                    Norton had procured “were so likely to break down on cross?examination;” that it
                    would be “important to prove, by a better class of witnesses,” the extreme
                    intimacy with Lord Melbourne; and that a conference had been afterwards held, as
                    to the necessity of taking some step, rather than admit (by not
                    proceeding) that the charge was groundless. On so slender a chance did the
                    mock?trial turn!
                Mr Norton also published the opinions and letters of Sir John Bayley at and after
                    the trial; to prove, as he said, that Sir John’s opinion was then at variance
                    with the one recently expressed in my favour. Sir John was in Scotland when this
                    second batch of slanders appeared; I therefore wrote to him; and, after briefly
                    commenting, myself, on Mr Norton’s fresh attack, I re?printed this public denial
                    made at the time, to disprove Sir W. Follett’s share in a transaction he had
                    expressly disclaimed.
                Extract from the ‘Times’ of June 25, 1836.—
                
                    “To the Editor of the ‘Times.’
                    “Sir,—Having seen in the ‘Times’ of this morning that the action of ‘Norton
                        v. Lord Melbourne’ was advised ‘by the able and upright counsel who
                        conducted it,’ we think it is due to Sir William Follett to state that the
                        action was NOT brought under his advice; and that
                        although he was retained so far back as the 25th of April last, the evidence
                        was not in complete state for his brief to
                        be delivered to him until the 14th of June inst., and when no course was
                        open to the parties but to proceed with the trial of the cause, which had
                        been fixed for the present sittings.
                    “We are, Sir, your most obedient servants, (Signed) “CURRIE and WOODGATE.
                    “Lincoln’s inn, June 25, 1836.”
                
                Sir John Bayley answered my appeal to him, as I had hoped and expected; he came
                    forward and publicly contradicted, in his own person, the tissue of
                    mis?statements by which Mr Norton sought to crush me; and I consider that I owe
                    to that manly and frank upholding, the only approach to justice I have ever been
                    able to obtain. I give his letter, as it appeared in the journals of the
                    day.
                
                    “To the Editor.
                    “Sir,—Absence from London, and a severe private sorrow, have prevented my
                        sooner noticing certain letters which have lately appeared in the public
                        journals, in which my name has been most improperly introduced by Mr Norton,
                        who has thought fit to publish his copy of a case laid before me for my
                        opinion, in 1836, and a letter of mine to his solicitor, dated 9th Jan,.
                        1837. He publishes these documents to prove that my opinion then was at
                        variance with one which I had more recently expressed; namely, that his
                        conduct to his wife ‘has been marked with the grossest cruelty, injustice,
                        and inconsistency.’ If Mr Norton’s remarks on the alteration in my opinions
                        had been merely intended to impeach my judgment, I should not have
                        condescended to notice them; but as he intends the public to infer that Mrs
                        Norton may be unworthy of the later opinion with circumstances have lead me
                        to form, and he himself undeserving of the censure I passed upon his conduct
                        towards her, I consider I would be acting the part of a coward, if I
                        refrained from coming forward to state the truth, however disagreeable this
                        enforced publicity may be,—nay, must be,—to any man who has merely
                        endeavoured to do his duty fairly and fearlessly, as a gentleman and a man
                        of honour, between parties utterly unconnected with him.
                    
                    “If Mr Norton’s object in publishing my letter and opinion had been the
                        development of truth, he would not have left unstated, facts which clearly
                        account for my change of opinion. As he has thought fit to suppress these
                        facts, I will supply them.
                    “When the opinion of the 3rd October, 1836, and the letter of the 9th
                        January, 1837, were written by me, I was acting as his counsel; and on his
                        ex parte statements, in the firm belief that every assertion he made to me
                        was true and capable of proof, I wrote that letter and I gave that
                        opinion.
                    “Some time in the year 1837, and subsequently to my letter to Mr Currie, my
                        position was changed. I ceased to be Mr Norton’s counsel, and all previous
                        attempts at reconciliation or arrangement between him and Mrs Norton having
                        failed, I, at Mr Norton’s earnest solicitation, took upon myself the arduous
                        and thankless office of arbitrator, providing that Mrs Norton would permit
                        me to act in that capacity on her behalf. I did not expect that she would
                        ever consent to this, from the position I had held as counsel for her
                        husband, and the impression she necessarily must have entertained that I was
                        prejudiced against her. To her honour and credit, however, she at once
                        acceded to Mr Norton’s request. I received both from her and her husband
                        written assurances that they would abide by my decision, whatever it might
                        be, and on these terms I entered on my difficult task. I then, for the first
                        time, learnt Mrs Norton’s side of the question. I found (not from her
                        assertions, but by documentary proofs in her possession) that I had been
                        advising Mr Norton, not on his real case, but on a series of invented fables
                        which he had strung together and consulted me upon. Nearly every statement
                        he had made to me turned out to be UNTRUE. I found
                        Mrs Norton anxious only on one point, and nearly broken?hearted about it;
                        namely, the restoration of her children. She treated her pecuniary affairs
                        as a matter of perfect indifference, and left me to arrange them with Mr
                        Norton as I thought fit. I found her husband, on the contrary, anxious only
                        about the pecuniary part of the arrangement, and so obviously making the love of the mother for her
                        offspring a means of barter and bargain, that I wrote to him I could be ‘no
                        party to any arrangement which made Money the price of Mrs Norton’s fair and
                        honourable access to her children.’ I found his history of her expenses and
                        extravagances to be untrue; and that even while he made that complaint, he
                        had detained all her wardrobe, jewellery, and books; in short, every article
                        of her personal property, under threat of selling them. I advised that these
                        things should be given up, but Mr Norton would not consent to do so. I told
                        him frankly I did not think he ought ever to have retained them. I found Mrs
                        Norton had offered to pay her own bills, and that Mr Norton’s solicitor had
                        replied, that there was no undertaking, even if she did pay her bills, that
                        her property would be returned to her. I found, under Mr Norton’s own
                        handwriting, confessions of the grossest personal violence towards his wife,
                        and that on one occasion he had kicked the drawing?room door from its
                        hinges, and dragged her out of the room by force—she being then enceinte of
                        her youngest son. I wrote to him to say, that, in spite of these injuries
                        (supported by the clearest possible proof under his own handwriting) I found
                        Mrs Norton ‘reasonable,’—‘tractable,’—‘very forbearing, indeed in her
                        expressions towards him,
                            ’
                            "
                        —anxious to satisfy him, ‘for the children’s sake;’ writing to me,
                        instead of abusing him, that she desired ‘heartily, vainly, and sorrowfully,
                        to be at peace with the children’s father.’ I found that the taking away of
                        those children had been the real ground of quarrel, and that not only Mr
                        Norton threw the blame of the subsequent trial on his advisors, and declared
                        that the trial was brought ‘against his judgment,’ but that one of his
                        angriest grounds of complaint against his wife was, that she had said she
                        ‘never would return to him;’ that, as he expressed it, she did not ‘honestly
                        intend to return to him,’ when he asked her; that his sister and other
                        friends had told him so: in answer to which complaint I wrote him word, that
                        Mrs Norton did intend to have returned, but admitted she had said to his
                        sister, ”It would be for her children’s
                        sake.’ I found, even while making this angry complaint, and while
                        endeavouring to come to terms, he retained certain pocket?books, and MS.
                        memoranda of Mrs Norton’s, in case, if the negotiation went off, he might
                        find in these journals something on which to ground some accusation against
                        her in the ecclesiastical or other courts! I read with amazement the series
                        of letters which Mr Norton had previously addressed to his wife, and in
                        which he signs himself ‘Greenacre.’ I showed these letters to the late Lord
                        Wynford. I said, if Mrs Norton had been my sister, I would have made them
                        public: and I consider she showed forbearance and consideration in not
                        making them public, when Mr Norton advertised her in the papers. Mr Norton
                        admitted to me his firm belief of his wife’s innocence of the charges he had
                        brought against her and Lord Melbourne; and these letters of his, expressly
                        exculpated her from all blame, and endearingly entreated her to return and
                        live with him again. I then certainly changed my opinion. I thought Mr
                        Norton had done his wife the most cruel injury a man could inflict, and that
                        he was bound to make every sacrifice and reparation in his power. I saw no
                        earthly reason why her children should be withheld from her, and required
                        him to write immediately to Scotland (where the children then were) to have
                        them sent to London forthwith. In my presence and at my dictation he wrote a
                        letter to that effect, and sealed it. I posted it myself, and thought all
                        was settled, as the sole stipulation made by Mrs Norton was the return of
                        her children; but Mr Norton was base enough to write a second letter,
                        unbeknownst to me, to forbid their coming; and come they did not. As soon as
                        I discovered this act of treachery and breach of faith, I threw up my office
                        of mediator. I remonstrated in severe terms with Mr Norton, and my
                        intercourse with him ceased. The question of Mrs Norton’s allowance was not
                        entered upon, as my interference terminated at that point. I deem it,
                        however, the simplest justice to Mrs Norton to say, that I found her frank
                        and straightforward throughout: acting strictly up to this sentence in her
                        first letter to me—‘Heartily, and as God
                        is my judge, I desire to make what peace is possible between me and my
                        husband, in spite of the past.’ She left her interests entirely in my hands;
                        threw no obstacle in my path; and never once swerved from the promise to
                        abide by whatever terms I should lay down. With Mr Norton (though he had
                        appointed me to act) I found the exact reverse. He abused his wife and his
                        wife’s family; he shuffled about the mis?statements he could not deny; he
                        would be bound neither by his verbal promise nor his written pledge; and
                        after a correspondence began in November, and did not end till January, all
                        effort at arrangement was given up. On a calm review of these circumstances,
                        it can scarcely be wondered at, that I utterly changed my opinion, and that
                        the advice I gave to the writer of the Greenacre letters in 1837 was not the
                        same advice I had given to the supposed injured husband of 1836. I gave Mr
                        Norton, on the fancy case he submitted to counsel, good, sound, honest
                        advice, to the best of my ability; and I gave him the like advice when his
                        real case became known to me. If he had abided by that advice, and by his
                        written pledge, the curiosity of the world would not now be gratified by
                        details of his private affairs, which he compels others to publish piecemeal
                        for their own justification. I am sorry, for his sake, that such publication
                        ever took place; and I am glad for Mrs Norton’s sake; because I consider
                        there never was a more deeply?injured woman, and that his conduct to her
                        certainly had been marked by ‘the grossest cruelty, injustice, and
                        inconsistency,’ that ever any man displayed. Mr Norton may attack me with
                        impunity; I shall not answer him; but I will not allow him to persuade the
                        public that there is any inconsistency in an opinion formed on a thorough
                        knowledge of his case; which opinion, now that all the circumstances of that
                        case are more generally known, he will, I think, find to be universal.
                    “13th September, 1853. “JOHN BAYLEY.
                    “Philorth House, Fraserburgh, N.B. ”
                
                This letter was considered, when it appeared, to be “unanswerable”; but Mr
                    Norton’s struggle was not yet over. On the
                    24th September,—eight days after Sir John had thus declared the true
                    circumstances of our affairs,—Mr Norton reappeared in print. He began by saying,
                    that he had “delayed his answer for a few days, and during the interval
                    consulted counsel upon his power to file a criminal information against Sir John
                    Bayley; but that course (he was advised) was no longer open to him, ‘inasmuch as
                    all parties had already resorted to the newspapers.’”
                Any lawyer would know this excuse to be a false one; and that it was perfectly
                    competent to Mr Norton (if he could have dared the result), to take other legal
                    measures against Sir John Bayley. Declining refutation of the general charges,
                    Mr Norton comments only on two; the breaking open of the doors, and the
                    surreptitious letter privately sent, contradicting that which he affected to
                    write and send at his referee’s dictation. He admits that he burst the doors
                    open, calls it a “frivolous quarrel;” and with that mania about money and
                    money’s worth, which makes him deem such excuse the best justification he could
                    invent,—gives to the public, as the reason of this scene of uproar and assault,
                    that his wife had bought “expensive velvets.”
                He then proceeds to Sir John’s “charge of baseness,”—and asserts,—not that he did
                    not act as stated, but that Sir John did not tell him at the time, that he was
                    “base;” that they corresponded afterwards: and that, says Mr Norton:—
                
                    “The period of my withdrawing my confidence from my sole legal adviser after
                        the trial, and as I firmly believe my friend, was when I found, that he had
                        become completely infatuated by a beautiful and talented woman, whose
                        performance of her part of a contemplated arrangement he positively refused
                        to answer for, although he at the same time insisted upon my performing my
                        part, and placing myself at her mercy by withdrawing my children from
                        Scotland. ”
                
                My husband is fond of paying me the melancholy compliment, that to my personal
                    charms, and not to the justice of my cause, I
                    owe, that all concerned in these wretched affairs, take my part
                    against him, as soon as they have any explanation with me. Now, it would
                    certainly have been strictly probable that any man,—especially a man of Sir John
                    Bayley’s nature; blunt, kindly, and vehement;—would,—on finding instead of the
                    painted wanton he expected to find, prepared to struggle for her “rights” and
                    her “interests,”—a miserable, sobbing, worn out young woman, appealing to him
                    for nothing but the mercy of getting back her children (those dear children, the
                    loss of whose pattering steps and sweet occasional voices made the silence of
                    her new home intolerable as the anguish of death),—I say it is more than
                    probable, that being but man, and not the angel of justice, he might have leaned
                    most unfairly, unduly, and compassionately, to the person whose bitter grief,
                    and single, simple stipulation, came upon him by surprise; and that so, he might
                        not have dealt as impartially, as good faith with Mr Norton
                    required.
                I thank heaven it was not so. This assertion must withdraw and take its rank
                    among all my husband’s other assertions. To no weak leaning of any man, but to
                    the sympathy of a true and gentle woman, I owe any further
                    negotiation with Mr Norton after that surreptitious letter was sent.
                Sir John did tell him, in the interview they had on the subject, how
                    base he considered his conduct; and dismissed him with such violent and
                    contemptuous reproaches, that all acquaintance appeared ended between them.
                    Then, in my despair, learning the wondrous treachery of the double part Mr
                    Norton had played, and the end of all my hopes about my children, Sir John
                    Bayley’s WIFE took pity upon me. She did not know me: I
                    was to her, nothing but a slandered stranger: but she came to see me and comfort
                    me. Pure?hearted, high?minded, and herself a mother,—she strove to stand between
                    me and my bitter disappointment. SHE did, what her
                    husband was too full of just anger and scorn to do,—SHE
                    wrote to Mr Norton,—SHE pleaded for those children,— who did not live with him, who were no
                    pleasure to him, who were merely his imprisoned hostages for power; SHE dug for pity in that sterile heart; and wrote, and
                    strove, and wasted kindness and time for my sake. Mr Norton availed himself of
                    her interference, to renew the correspondence,—I have his answers
                    to all those letters,—and his bitterest complaint is, that I had said “I would
                    not return to him!”
                Sir John Bayley refused to notice Mr Norton’s comments on his published letter;
                    or these and other facts might have been stated. He scorned to reply to the
                    taunts showered upon him for venturing to make the truth known; taunts so
                    bitter, that it would seem as if, instead of an English gentleman acting as
                    referee, he had been a Roman Catholic priest breaking the seal of the
                    confession, or an accomplice turning King’s evidence. To be KNOWN, is, with Mr Norton, synonymous with being
                        BETRAYED. To bugbear of his life is the terrible moto,
                        “Magna est Veritas, et prevalebit!” Sir
                    John had no right to ruin his character,—and his character was ruined in
                    proportion as his conduct was made public. And this brings me to certain
                    passages in Mr Norton’s published letter, respecting Lord Abinger; containing, I
                    think, as strange a boast of protection as ever was made by an English
                    magistrate, with respect to an English judge. Sir John Bayley had been subpœnaed
                    as witness in 1838, by one of my creditors; after having become acquainted as
                    referee, with the real circumstances of our story: and this is Mr Norton’s
                    printed boast; taken from the ‘Times’ newspaper of the 24th September, 1853:
                
                    “Lord Abinger, who tried the cause, upon a suggestion of my counsel” (Sir
                        Fitzroy Kelly), “that Sir John Bayley had been my advocate and referee,
                            REFUSED TO HEAR HIS EVIDENCE.“
                    “Lord Abinger, in his summing up, alluding to one of the letters then
                        produced, says, ‘How that bears upon the present case I really cannot see. I
                        myself must say, as a gentleman, I do not think that letter ought to have
                        been put in evidence.’”
                
                
                And finally, Mr Norton terms his quondam counsel and referee—
                
                    “That advocate, who ought to have learnt his duty by having been REJECTED by Lord Abinger, as a witness in a Court of
                        Law, in respect of the very matters which in a perverted state he now makes
                        himself a party to publish.”
                
                I beg the attention of my readers to the circumstances preceding that rejection
                    of evidence. When the letters signed “Greenacre,” and others, were shown by Sir
                    John Bayley to Lord Wynford, the latter expressed himself in the strongest and
                    most contemptuous terms with respect to his former ward; and finally—for the
                    express purpose of being shown to Mr Norton,—he wrote the following note; the
                    original of which is in my possession.
                
                    “My Dear Bayley,
                    “I have been thinking of the correspondence you read to me this morning. I am
                        convinced that George Norton can have no defence to the actions, and that
                        his defending of them will be attended WITH LOSS OF
                            CHARACTER, as well as great expense. He should agree to the
                        arrangement that you propose, or any other that can be made. I will write to
                        Grantley to tell him that I have advised a settlement on ANY terms.
                    “Faithfully yours,
                    “WYNFORD.
                    “Leesons, December 20, 1837.”
                
                Here then is Mr Norton, armed with the knowledge of Lord Wynford’s opinion, that
                    the production of the evidence Sir John Bayley could give, would be attended
                    with “loss of character,” and prove fatal to his defence. Lord Wynford’s advice
                    was to surrender at discretion. “Don’t attempt to defend the actions; the
                    evidence will ruin you.” But Mr Norton (himself brought up to the law) thought
                    differently. “Defend the actions; the evidence that would ruin you can be
                        suppressed.” Two of the ablest men the English bar could
                    boast—Lord Abinger and Sir Fitzroy Kelly—might surely steer him past that dreadful shoal, with this one skilful
                    stroke of the oar! So Hope whispered; and so the event proved. Lord Abinger
                    “refused” the evidence which Lord Wynford had warned Lord Grantley would be
                    fatal. Lord Abinger “rejected the advocate,” whose dangerous testimony was to
                    turn the scales. Let the foreigners, whose methods of jurisprudence we
                    criticise, read what can happen in an English Court of Justice—and be boasted of
                    afterwards by an English Magistrate!
                Sir Fitzroy Kelly (who, for the use he then made of his skill and eloquence, may
                    plead, like Mr Needham, and the defender of the burglary case,* duty to his client and ”licence of the bar“)
                    represented Mr Norton in pathetic terms, as a high?minded and excellent man,
                    whose extravagant and profligate wife was endeavouring to ruin him by a
                    succession of luxurious debts; a wife utterly unworthy; though the verdict, in
                    the trial against Lord Melbourne, left her still with some legal claims on that
                    injured and deceived husband, who vainly strove, with mingled economy and
                    generosity, to provide for her and his children!
                
                    The instance here referred to is a remarkable illustration of what lawyers
                        think permitted to them as advocates. I give the case from a brief note in
                        one of the papers of the day:—
                    “THE MORALITY OF THE BAR.” — In the Central Criminal Court, on Monday, a man
                        named John Richards, aged twenty?two, was indicted for feloniously breaking
                        and entering the dwelling?house of John Crossley, with intent to steal his
                        goods. The prisoner was seen to loiter about the house, and to open the door
                        with a latch key. An alarm was instantly given, so that he had no
                        opportunity to take anything; and he was tracked and found in the bedroom of
                        a lady?lodger. On being asked to account for his being in the house, he said
                        that he expected to meet a gentleman. Mr Sleigh (we quote the words of the
                        report), in his address to the jury for the prisoner, insinuated that he had
                        gone into the room by appointment with the lady who was the occupier of it;
                        and on that ground he called upon them to acquit him. The Recorder, in his
                        charge, told the jury that there did not appear in evidence the slightest
                        foundation for such an imputation; and the verdict of guilty was at once
                        pronounced. A certificate of a former conviction for felony was then put in,
                        whereupon “Mr Sleigh intimated that, if he had been aware of the existence
                        of a previous conviction, he should not have suggested the defence he did to
                        the jury.” The Recorder expressed his opinion that the defence was
                            most unjustifiable. The prisoner said “it was not suggested in
                        his brief.” Mr Sleigh admitted that the defence was not suggested to him in
                        his brief, but said that it occurred to him as a legitimate one to offer to
                        the jury upon the facts of the case!
                
                
                To contradict this Romance of the Bar, there was in the Court, at that hour, a
                    gentleman of unimpeachable integrity, subpœnaed to give testimony ON OATH, by the creditor who was suing for his debt. He
                    could have proved all that Lord Wynford dreaded—all that has since been declared
                    in Sir John Bayley’s letter to the Times; and had he
                    been permitted to speak, the verdict must, according to Lord Wynford, have gone
                        against Mr Norton, with the addition of “loss of character and
                    great expense.” Sir Fitzroy Kelly settled the matter. His experienced skill
                    saved Mr Norton. He knew that it is easier to suppress evidence than to refute
                    it; and on his suggestion (as Mr Norton has now published to the
                    world), Lord Abinger decided what to do. He simply refused to hear anything Sir
                    John Bayley had to say! That this decision was optional, and not the result of a
                    legal necessity, we may safely presume; since Lord Wynford did not anticipate
                    such a difficulty; but had advised “a settlement on any terms” rather than run
                    the risk of the actions. That risk was triumphantly avoided, by the refusal of
                    an English judge, in open Court, to receive sworn testimony in behalf of a party
                    unjustly accused and not represented by Counsel! The result was a verdict for Mr
                    Norton; and he was satisfied.
                But I was not satisfied. I naturally said to myself, “Here is the
                    truth suppressed, and evidence refused which would have decided the case
                    precisely the other way; I have it on Lord Wynford’s authority. He advised Mr
                    Norton to yield, to save him from exposure; these other lawyers have saved him
                    from exposure by a superior trick of skill. It seems then, that he is to be
                    protected at all hazards. WHY? Can any 
                        one
                        ne
                     believe that nothing more is at stake than a simple admission of
                    liability for a wife’s debts, when such strange means are resorted to? Lord
                    Wynford, in spite of his denial—of the Duke of Cumberland’s denial—in spite of
                    his repudiation of Mr Norton and his concerns—was nevertheless the person appointed immediately after the trial to
                    discuss terms. Lord Wynford on Mr Norton’s behalf, and no other, met Dr
                    Lushington on my behalf, as soon as the action against Lord Melbourne was over!
                    Are we to believe that he suddenly renewed his intimacy with Mr Norton only for
                    the purpose of rendering him that service? Now, here were two more of the chief
                    men of the Tory party, contriving (by the refusal of sworn evidence) that the
                    accuser of the Whig Premier should escape scot?free from the imminent peril of
                    our real story becoming known. Sir Fitzroy Kelly is counsel, and Lord Abinger is
                    judge—Lord Abinger, who began life as a Whig, warmed into a convert?Tory, and on
                    whom (during the brief moment Lord Melbourne had been ousted to make way for the
                    Peel?Wellington cabinet) so many Tory favours had been showered. What was I to
                    think? Memoirs enough have been lately edited and published by ministers and the
                    sons of ministers, to show the under?current of relation in which public men may
                    stand to each another. If such are the jealousies and animosities of “friends,”
                    what may not be expected from “foes?” Unforgotten by me were Lord Melbourne’s
                    own words:—“You take these slights to yourself; but they are not put upon YOU.” My justification or condemnation, personally, was as
                    nothing. But fatal (not only to Mr Norton) would that sworn testimony have been,
                    which proved that the plaintiff in the action against Lord Melbourne had
                    declared that it was the work of OTHERS; that it was
                    against his judgment; that he utterly disbelieved the accusation it involved;
                    that he had entreated his wife to forgive it; to return to her home; and had put
                    forward as one of his bitterest complaints, that she said she never would live
                    with him again! That evidence was SUPPRESSED. But I tell
                    Mr Norton, on this printed page, that he himself does not know by what a double
                    chance the risk of exposure was avoided; that even Lord Abinger’s protection
                    would have failed to shelter him, when I angrily resolved (as I did) to publish
                        then the whole account of our case, and leave him to his
                    remedy; but that Lord Melbourne dissuaded me
                    from doing so. It so happened that this petty cause,—pleaded by Sir Fitzroy
                    Kelly, and decided by Lord Abinger; in which nothing more important than a
                    woman’s fame and a woman’s interests were at stake,—was tried at the exact
                    moment (June, 1838), when, in the first year of a young Queen’s reign, the Whig
                    government was overwhelmed with business, even more troublesome than that which
                    the cares of office usually involve. What was my poor destiny, in a session in
                    which, a coinage and a coronation—the revolts in Canada—the attempt to repeal
                    the corn?laws—the conduct of O’Connell—the King of Hanover’s claim for his
                    English income—the Irish Church Bill—the first general arrangement of mails by
                    railroad—the visit of Marshal Soult—the creation of a new batch of Peers—the
                    passing of the Irish poor?law—and a hundred other subjects of varying
                    importance, employed Lord Melbourne’s attention? What could my sobbing, moaning,
                    and complaining be, but a bore, to this man who was not my lover?
                    What could my passionate printed justification be, but a plague and
                    embarrassment, to him, already justified, and at the pinnacle of
                    fortune? Let no one say Lord Melbourne’s family should not hold me in kind
                    remembrance: for then,—young, childless, defamed, sorrowful, and
                    rash,—there never was the day that I did not admit his destiny to
                    be the one thing thought of; there never was the day that I rebelled against his
                    advice, or gave him annoyance that I could possibly avoid. I did not even
                    persist—“this can only be a temporary embarrassment by revival of painful gossip
                    to you; it is my life—my future—the strongest temptation of my
                    heart to justify myself.” I listened then, as at other times, to the ever?ready
                    argument, that I would be justified without these means; that they
                    would be beyond measure vexatious and embarrassing to him; that I
                    might “rest assured,” that no patience I shewed him would be forgotten, either
                    by him, or those above him. I gave up what I had prepared (though it would have
                    been as easy for me to prove all by Sir John Bayley’s and other testimony, then, as in this present year), and
                    nothing was published but a feeble anonymous denial, in a morning
                    paper, of the general thread of Sir Fitzroy Kelly’s remarks; giving two or three
                    letters from the solicitors on both sides, with even those names left blank!
                Mr Norton may say, that since that occasion of desperate resolve—I have been
                    frequently on friendly terms with him. That charge I will not
                    refute. I am but a woman, and not even a very resolute woman. My husband is
                    welcome to the triumph of knowing, that, through the long years of our
                    separation (especially during the first four years of our separation), I wavered
                    and wept; that pride and bitter anger have not always been
                    uppermost; that there have been hundreds of dreary evenings, and hopeless
                    mornings, when even his home seemed to me better than no home—even his
                    protection better than no protection—and all the thorns that can cumber a
                    woman’s natural destiny, better than the unnatural position of a separated wife.
                    He is welcome to the triumph of knowing, that it is impossible to have felt more
                    keenly than I did, the confused degradation of that position; not in the society
                    where I am received (least there, because there my story was best known), but in
                    other classes, which I have said I do not less respect. I was too unlike his
                    picture of me, to be otherwise than often miserable; often willing to make a
                    raft out of the wreck, and so drift back, even to a comfortless haven. There
                    were moments, too, when I pitied him; when I believed
                    his story of loneliness and repentance; and forgave without reservation, as I
                    had forgiven before. There were times of family deaths; and times when,—as he
                    represents in his cruel letter,—we met by the sick?bed of a dear son, when I
                    thought little of myself and my own wrongs, and yearned to make
                        their lives happier who owed their existence to this broken
                    marriage. It is quite true that I would sometimes willingly have returned to my
                    husband; that my son desired it; and till that day in the County Court,
                    friendliness of some sort (if not that return) remained possible and
                    welcome.
                
                But on that day, when in cold blood for the sake of money, Mr Norton repeated
                    that which he knew to be false; the waters of Marah, by which he sought to whelm
                    my soul, made the great gulf that shall divide us for ever! In that day, when he
                    met me face to face, shivering with the frenzy of mingled anger, shame, and
                    fear, (which he sneered at as “acting;”)—in that little court, where I stood
                    apparently helpless, mortified, and degraded—in that bitterest of many bitter
                    hours in my life,—I judged and sentenced him. I annulled the skill of his Tory
                    lawyer’s suggestion to a Tory judge. I over?ruled the decision of Lord Abinger,
                    in that obscure and forgotten cause, which upheld him against justice. I
                    sentenced Mr Norton to be KNOWN; which he justly
                    considers as the deepest condemnation. All secresy—all forbearance—were over,
                    with his false defence. Though I certainly did not anticipate that in addition
                    to the indecent abuse of the dead, and of all family ties, he would, in his
                    reckless anger against Sir John Bayley, himself ruin his own cause, by showing
                    the way in which it had been protected—and slur the very friends who had
                    protected him, by his revelations! “What you state may be true; but sixteen
                    years ago, Lord Abinger decided that you should never make it known.”
                        That is the abridgement of Mr Norton’s taunts to Sir John
                    Bayley!
                And here I pause to comment on Mr Norton’s angry deprecation of the
                        means by which these things are not only made known, but proved
                    beyond the possibility of doubt. He says, that neither Sir John Bayley, nor even
                    I, (who am the sufferer for life by his duplicity), have any right to show the
                    real truth by reference to his “private letters.” Why not? Can there be a
                    greater climax of absurdity, than that any man should come forward and say:
                    “This is my printed published lie; but shall not contradict it with my private
                    letters; for my lie is public, but my letters are confidential. You shall for
                    ever hold the proof, but never use it: the openness of an extreme publicity is
                    to attend what I say; but the most pro? found
                    secrecy is to be observed with respect to what I have done.” Truly “there is but
                    one step from the sublime to the ridiculous;” and the argument which has dignity
                    in it, (that private confidence should not be broken), sinks into the burlesque,
                    when its reasoning sequel must be,—“because thereby the TRUTH will be revealed, to my discredit.”
                These letters—of a mere reference to which Mr Norton complains so bitterly; the
                    contents of which Lord Wynford considered would ruin his character; the
                    explanation of which Lord Abinger prevented, by refusal of evidence,—rise before
                    Mr Norton, the spectre?witnesses of past wrong! They are my justification. In
                    this year of 1853, my husband affects to believe the slanders of 1836. Is Sir
                    John Bayley, on my earnest appeal, not to be permitted to say, “I saw those
                    letters signed ‘Greenacre,’ written by Mr Norton to the wife he now maligns; I
                    myself received his declaration, that he disbelieved the facts stated on the
                    trail?” Can there be more absurd language held by one gentleman to another, than
                    the strange rebuke:—“Be silent—you have no right to speak; for you were my
                    ‘referee.’ I choose to gull the public with a false story—you shall not show the
                    real story—Lord Abinger protected me from you once before—I depend on the truth
                    never being revealed, and I consider you are a traitor for revealing it.”
                If Sir John Bayley be a traitor to Mr Norton, many other gentlemen must share
                    that title. Sir John is not the only person who has placed letters from Mr
                    Norton in my hands; nor is he the only person who wrote in strong condemnation
                    of his conduct. Mr Norton persists, that those who have blamed him, were deluded
                    by me into that opinion. This is a poor compliment, either to the understanding
                    or principle of the friends who from time to time have been concerned in these
                    miserable affairs. In that deluded group must stand, Lord Harrington, Mr Edward
                    Ellice, Sir James Graham, Sir Frederick Thesiger, Mr Barlow, Sir John Bayley,
                        and Mr Norton’s colleague, Mr Hardwicke;
                    of these gentlemen, no less than five, have given up one, or several, of Mr
                    Norton’s “private letters.” Apparently all felt that the extraordinary
                    circumstances of the case justified extraordinary measures; all
                    considered that they were authorized to prove the truth, by exposure of Mr
                    Norton’s inaccuracies. The letters so given up, have been in my possession for a
                    period varying from ten to sixteen years; and I have never made any use of them
                    till these proceedings in the County Court. Will others, reading these pages, be
                    able to say as much? Will they be able to say, they bore for sixteen years every
                    species of misconstruction, vexation, and slander, with such proof in their
                    hands—and never used it? Is there any lawyer, clergyman, officer, political or
                    mercantile man, into whose hands chance may throw these pages, who would bear
                    loss of character as patiently? Why should I bear it only because I
                    am a woman? In what way is it more advantageous to public morality, that the
                    False Accuser should be shielded by perpetual suppression of evidence; and shame
                    be left to rest, not only on my name, but on the name of a distinguished
                    nobleman, a true servant of the Crown, and Prime Minister of a great and free
                    country? Mr Norton comes forward (in his capacity of MAGISTRATE), and he accuses this deceased Minister, not only of
                    private immorality as a man, but of the meanest malversation in his public
                    office. He accuses Lord Melbourne, in so many words—in the ‘Times’ newspaper—of
                    giving one of the subordinate positions in the Treasury, “as a
                        reward” for the subtraction from Mr Norton’s house, of letters written
                    to Mr Norton’s wife! Is this to be borne, from any man; least of all from a man,
                    who, himself holds an office by Lord Melbourne’s appointment?
                At the beginning of this session, idle rumours and unjust aspersions, respecting
                    the interference of Prince Albert with public affairs, found their way from
                    conversational gossip into print, and were made a subject of discussion by
                    various organs of the press. When Parliament
                    met, the most direct contradiction, the clearest disproof, the most lofty and
                    resolute defence, shattered this attempt to render unpopular, a Prince for whom
                    England has every reason to feel both respect and gratitude. On that occasion,
                    Lord Melbourne’s name was brought prominently forward. Lord Aberdeen in the
                    House of Lords, and Lord John Russell in the House of Commons, read aloud, to
                    eager and attentive members, a brief frank note, written by that deceased
                    minister to the Queen, expressive of his favourable opinion of the discretion,
                    ability, and excellence, of her Royal Consort; and of the guarantee those
                    qualities gave, of safe and intelligent guidance, of pure and irreproachable
                    motives, in all advice that might be tendered to the crowned Ruler of England.
                    It could not be otherwise than a proud and touching thought, to those who loved
                    and remembered Lord Melbourne in life; that even after his death,—past the
                    silence of the grave and the semi?oblivion of a closed career,—his words still
                    had power publicly to serve his Sovereign, on a subject nearest to her heart.
                    His letter was held to be of sufficient authority, to define the position, and
                    declare the character, of the Consort of the Sovereign. What gave those words
                    their value? The profound conviction in those who listened, that Lord
                        Melbourne had written precisely what he thought. That with the
                    capacity of judging, he joined the conscience of the judge; that in the
                    sincerity of an honest heart, and not for intrigue or Court favour, he penned
                    those lines. His surviving influence, was in the undoubting belief that he had
                    been frank, true, and loyal,—as minister, statesman, and counsellor: from the
                    hour when, with the rays of a morning sun in June shining bright on her golden
                    hair, men saw Victoria mount the steps of her hereditary throne, leaning on his
                    hand; to that in which, having faded out of life in the lingering seclusion of
                    illness,—no longer the busy statesman, but the helpless friend,—news was brought
                    to the Palace, in the gloom of a November day, that he was
                    DEAD, whose voice first hailed her accession; he was
                    dead, whose counsels, while he was able to give them, never wavered for the sake
                    of selfish ambition, nor swerved beneath the rivalry of faction; but kept the
                    compass true to a single star,—DUTY to his country and
                    his Queen.
                I say it was the firm trust in his honour, that alone gave Lord Melbourne’s
                    letter power: without which reliance those acclamations of a British Parliament
                    must be considered more senseless than the riot of schoolboy applause. Yet this
                    minister, so trusted for wisdom and for honesty,—this authority in matters of
                    the deepest moment of England’s welfare—is the same man whom one of your
                    metropolitan magistrates has accused of the most wondrous baseness: and the same
                    pen that defames him, defames me. Are those slanders believed or disbelieved? If
                    believed, where is the confidence and enthusiasm of that burst of cheering, that
                    spoke trust in the minister, and respect for his memory? If disbelieved, where
                    is MY shame? Why am I hunted and haunted through life
                    with a scandal, involving two persons, but seemingly admitting of but one
                    acquittal? If the story had been true, and palliation were possible for the sin,
                    the palliation might rather seem to be on the side of the weaker party. But it
                    was not true. He said it was false. I say it was false. I cannot
                    come down and read, amid cheers and acclamation, his letters for
                    me: but what then? Am I to believe that I am too insignificant—that
                    any one in England is too insignificant for justice? Is it only for princes and
                    politicians that defence can avail? Is justification an appanage of position,
                    and endurance measured by degrees in Herald’s office? I hope not. I think not—if
                    this is England, as England boasts herself to be.
                I say again,—I do not petition for sympathy; I claim JUSTICE. If even my defence offend,—blame the LAW. If the Law of Divorce were differently constituted, the scandal
                    never could have taken place, of a trial against the Premier of England, which
                    that minister affirmed he believed to be
                    brought from a pecuniary advantage, and to be supported by suborned witnesses.
                    If the laws of protection for women were differently constituted, the struggle
                    about a broken contract could not have taken place. If the absurd anomalies in
                    the law which regulate claims on the husband did not exist, Mr Norton could not
                    have subpœnaed my publishers in the County Court, to annul my right even to my
                    own soul and brains. Had there been no such proceedings,—instead of this
                    pamphlet, the work I was occupied upon would have appeared; harmlessly to amuse
                    those who had leisure to read it. I give them, in lieu of such a work, this
                    “Story of Real Life;” taking place among the English aristocracy; with perfect
                    impunity on the part of the wrong doer! I invite Mr Norton to disprove it. He
                    cannot. If he had merely been unfaithful, I would have forgiven it. If he had
                    merely defrauded me, I would have confined myself to the formal struggle against
                    that fraud; but he has publicly LIBELLED me; and against
                    that public libel, repeated after an interval of sixteen years, I
                        will make my final stand. It is not in human nature to bear,
                    without the deepest resentment, the last attack made on me. I do feel the
                    deepest resentment; and I consider this especial time, when the marriage laws
                    are said to be under consideration, a fit opportunity for showing what can be
                    done under the laws as they are. Whether those laws are amended or not,
                    henceforth those who malign me, will do so in the face of proved evidence
                    against them:—henceforth those who have loved and upheld me, shall not merely
                    say,—“We believed her,”—but shall be able to assert,—“these are the
                        facts: and on these, we upheld her!”
                Mr Phillimore, in a bill brought forward this session, for a very different legal
                        improvement,* observed that the object of the
                    bill was “to withdraw from the sphere of private animosity,
                        caprice, and revenge, that which never ought to be left to privateThe establishment of a
                            Public Prosecutor.animosity,
                        caprice, and revenge; and to see that justice was properly administered.
                        ” There is no question that the principle is a sound one for
                        all legal control; and there is no reason why such control
                    should be in abeyance for one particular class of persons, or class of cases.
                    The law compels the poor man to be responsible to the community at large, for
                    the maltreatment of his wife; by a new law (the necessity for which
                    has been abundantly proved by the daily police reports). Why should it seem
                    grievous and shocking to make new laws of restraint for gentlemen as well as for
                    poor men? We have an idol; our idol is traditionary custom; and great is that
                    Diana of the Britons! If we make legal changes, it is rare that we make them
                    boldly. We seldom supersede. We add and we take away. Refusing to reform, we
                    endeavour to compel men to hold that sacred, being imperfect—which, reformed and
                    protected, would be held sacred without any compulsion at all. It is not
                    authority that offends; but anomaly; a patch?work in the raiment of Justice, so
                    that when men would cling to her robe it gives way in their hand. Now, if there
                    is one law men are more jealous of altering than another, it is the law between
                    husband and wife; yet surely, the power of protection is the proudest privilege
                    of superiority; and in these modern and enlightened days, that privilege may be
                    better defined, than in the phraseology of the ancient law of Baron and Feme,
                    which I have seen thus naively laid down—“Now the Baron shall have remedie
                    against one that beateth his Feme—for she is his CHATTEL.”
                The amount of anomaly in the law on this subject is startling; but I confine
                    myself to the notice of points affecting positions like my own.
                We will take then, first, the law as to marriage, and divorce.
                The Roman Catholics have one clear unvarying rule on this subject. They make
                    marriage a sacrament. They have 
                        laws
                        law
                     that apply to cases of
                    dispute,—“separation de corps et de biens,”—provision for the wife,—award as to
                    children,—but the marriage itself is simply indissoluble; lasting, as the words
                    of the Church ceremony imply, “till DEATH do us
                    part.”
                We do not make marriage a sacrament. It is difficult to say what we hold it to
                    be. Lord Hardwicke’s Marriage Act, of 1754, declared null, all marriages not
                    celebrated by a priest in orders: and made it indispensable that the ceremony
                    should take place in some parish church, or public chapel, unless by special
                    licence from the Archbishop of Canterbury. Lord John Russell’s Act, of 1836,
                    permits persons, on the contrary, to be married according to any form they
                    choose; not sacerdotally; merely by repairing to the Registrar, and giving
                    certain notices, and procuring certain certificates; so as to acquire a right to
                    have the ceremony performed in places registered and appropriated for the
                    purpose. Marriage, therefore, in England, is a religious ceremony or a mere
                    civil contract, at the pleasure of the parties: thus meeting the requisitions of
                    all sects of the Protestant Church. It is besides,—practically,—a sacrament for
                    the poor, and a civil contract for the rich: as the rich break it by application
                    to Parliament; and the poor are put frequently on their trial for bigamy, from
                    not being able to go through that expensive form. It is,—practically,—a
                    sacrament for the wife, and a civil contract for the husband; the husband can
                    break it almost as a matter of course, on proof of the wife’s infidelity; the
                    wife, though nominally able to apply for a divorce, seldom or ever obtains one.
                    I believe there are but three cases on record in the House of Lords, of
                    marriages broke on the wife’s petition.
                The law in Scotland and the law in England are utterly different. In Scotland,
                    the right of the wife to divorce is equal to that of the husband; and a Scotch
                    lady in Scotland can divorce her husband a
                        vinculo, so as to marry again. It is notorious, that the heads of
                    two of our noblest families made a residence in Scotland the preliminary of a
                    divorce of this nature, which set both parties
                    free; proceedings being taken, in one of the instances, by the wife against the
                    husband.
                In Scotland, marriage legitimatizes children born before wedlock: it does not do
                    legitimatize them in England: so that the same man,—inheriting property in both
                    countries,—would succeed as heir to his father, north of the Tweed, and be
                    debarred as a bastard, south of that boundary. In Scotland, a mere declaration
                    of marriage before witnesses, the mere addressing a letter as if to a wife, was
                    held sufficient to establish a marriage: and hence those rapid flights to
                    Gretna, which puzzle foreigners: Gretna not being of itself a city sacred to
                    Hymen, but the nearest village across the boundary of England, that could be
                    reached by enamoured couples. The parties were made “one” by David Paisley, a
                    blacksmith by trade. He kept no regular registry. John Linton, the landlord of
                    Gretna Hall, succeeded David Paisley. He kept no exact registry, but remembered
                    the elopement of Lord Erskine (afterwards Lord Chancellor), who arrived,
                    disguised as an old woman, with a veil and grey cloak: that of Lord
                    Westmoreland, with the daughter and heiress of Mr Childe, the banker; that of
                    Lord Eldon (another Chancellor); of one of the Laws, brother of Lord Chief
                    Justice Ellenborough; and of a clergyman, the Rev. Thomas Cator; besides a host
                    of less remarkable, and equally remarkable, cases. These Gretna marriages held
                    good; but the ceremony was, nevertheless, generally repeated according to more
                    regular forms, as soon as opportunity permitted. They took place in great
                    numbers; and it is only very recently that legislation has been appealed to, on
                    the subject of their prohibition. The law, the church, and the nobility, thus
                    owe to David Paisley the blacksmith, and John Linton the innkeeper, many of the
                    marriages of their most illustrious and distinguished families. Assuredly,
                    marriage is not a sacrament in Scotland! Indeed, so many strange confusions have
                    taken place in consequence of the laxity of the law in that country that it was
                    humorously asserted in the House of Lords, during an appeal on a Scotch case, that no Scotch gentleman
                    could feel positively sure, whether he were married or a bachelor, the knot was
                    so easily tied.
                In Scotland, the property, personalty, and rights of the wife, are far more
                    strictly protected than in England: and in divorce cases, she has the advantage
                    over the English wife, in the fact that the first step is to inquire into the
                    truth of the allegations against her. The English wife, in an action for
                    “damages,” brought as a first step towards divorce, by her husband against her
                    lover, is not considered as a party in the suit; cannot have counsel; and can
                    only benefit by such chance circumstances in her favour as belong to the defence
                    made by the man against whom the action is laid. Lord Brougham, in 1838,
                    mentioned a case in the House of Lords, in which not only the man proceeded
                    against was not in truth the woman’s lover, but not even an acquaintance; and
                    the action was an agreed plot between him and the husband, who desired to be rid
                    of his wife!
                But we have only to look back to the origin of divorce in England, to comprehend,
                    that the protection of the woman was the last thing considered in the framing of
                    its laws. Whether we ought to adopt the view taken by Roman Catholics, and
                    consider marriage as a sacrament; or whether (as Milton bitterly wrote, when
                    arguing his right to get rid of the wife who was no “help?mate” to him) persons
                    once wedded, should be compelled, “in spite of antipathy, to fadge together and
                    combine as they may, to their unspeakable wearisomeness;—forced to draw in that
                    yoke, an unmerciful day’s work of sorrow, till death unharness them,”—is no
                    longer an argument in Protestant England. Divorce, in its fullest
                    interpretation;—divorce, which breaks the marriage utterly, and allows of a new
                    choice; the children of which new choice shall be as legitimate and as capable
                    of inheriting by succession, as the children of any other marriages, is the
                    established law of our land. Divorce parliamentary, and divorce ecclesiastical:
                    Bishops vote in the House of Lords, and
                    therefore, it is to be presumed, they vote on divorce cases: and divorced
                    parties are re?married before the Church, and by the ministers of that Church,
                    precisely as they were before. A startling anomaly; but not greater than all our
                    other discrepancies on this subject. Our marriage ceremony belongs to the
                    compilation of our liturgy; and our liturgy was compiled, not by angels, but by
                    men: pious and wise men, whose task was performed with reverence, and should be
                    held in reverence, but they themselves prefaced it with the declaration, that it
                    had been compiled as far as possible to reconcile two contending parties in the
                    Church. Two, if not three, of the compilers, were Roman Catholics. Much of the
                    phraseology, and some of the services retained, are Roman Catholic. The
                    phraseology of the marriage service belongs to that creed. The community of
                    goods referred to in that ceremony, does not exist with us: and the simplest
                    reader must perceive a great contrast between the Church form and the Protestant
                    law: between the power vested in the Legislature to break marriages on a decree
                    made by assembled peers, and the phraseology of a ceremonial declared to be
                    “symbolical of the mystery of Christ’s union with the Church;”—which pronounces
                    the parties man and wife “in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy
                    Ghost;”—and dismisses them with the blessing, “What God hath joined, let no man
                    put asunder.” Is it the ceremony that makes marriage,—or the law that breaks
                    marriage,—that is wrong? They do not agree; and solemn and true is the sentence
                    which first meets our eyes in the preface to the Church Service: “There was never anything by the wit of man so well devised,
                        or so sure established, which in continuance of time hath not been
                        corrupted.” And that because the wit of man (such as it is) is
                    perpetually swayed by the passions of man.
                Now, divorce in England, we owe to Henry VIII. To that monarch,—profanely styled
                    the Father of the Reformation, Defender of the Faith, Supreme Governor of the
                        Church,— to that King, remarkable in youth
                    for inordinate vanity, in manhood for inordinate sensuality, in declining life
                    for inordinate tyranny, we owe the great chasm which divides the interpreted
                    sense of such language, from the reality of its binding effect:—
                        “And Gospel light first shone from Boleyn’s eyes,”—
                    to enable a false?hearted sensualist to rid himself of his legitimate wife.
                    Bishops were executed for objecting to his contemplated divorce;
                    the laws of earth and heaven were confused in the struggle of one wild and
                    reckless will; Rome was alternately appealed to and defied; till, on a Sabbath
                    day in September 1532, at Windsor Castle,—while Katherine was yet his nominal
                    Queen and nominal wife,—a sort of rehearsal of a future coronation was made, by
                    creating Anne Boleyn, Marchioness of Pembroke. The Defender of the Faith himself
                    put the demi?circular coronet on that lovely head, which was so soon to usurp
                    the crown; so soon to be severed by the axe! The Duke of Norfolk’s daughter
                    carried her mantle and coronet; the Countesses of Rutland and Sussex waited upon
                    her; the Bishop of Winchester read aloud the letters patent of her new nobility;
                    and from that day she was attended upon with royal state; like a princess. From
                    that day, for how long? For one,—two,—three months, or more? Historians cannot
                    tell. They dispute the date of Henry’s unhallowed union; and this fact only
                    appears clear, that he married Anne Boleyn BEFORE the
                    sentence of divorce from Katherine was actually pronounced by Cranmer.
                Retribution was in store. Soon, too soon, that fair Aurora of the
                    Reformation,—that woman with such generous impulses, such strong ambition, such
                    passionate attachments, such universal fascination,—was to perish as a victim,
                    where she had reigned as sovereign. Vain were her appeals to the tyrant?heart,
                    whose flame of lust being burned out, held no other light to read a woman’s
                    prayer by. The echo of the same call which had once insulted her mistress,
                    predecessor and superseded Queen,—“CATHERINE, COME INTO COURT!” was repeated for Anne Boleyn.
                    She, too, came into Court—to be tried and condemned. The lover who wooed her in
                    girlhood,—Percy, Duke of Northumberland,—saw her stand that trial: her
                    condemnation he did not hear: he pleaded illness and withdrew, before the close
                    of the proceedings; taking with him the one gleam of faint?hearted pity, to
                    which perhaps, that struggling, despairing woman had looked for help. She was
                    condemned; by those who did not believe her criminal; for crimes which nature
                    revolted at; for crimes she never committed. She died her death of just
                    expiation on a false plea; she left the child of her brief day of love and
                    triumph to reign gloriously over England as Queen Elizabeth; and she left the
                    rescue of her blotted name, to the yearning regret of her poet?admirer Wiatt,
                    and the skill of contending historians.
                The day she perished, Henry took another queen. The cannon which boomed from the
                    Tower, when with patient dignity that forsaken creature laid her head on the
                    block, brought to the king’s ear a double signal; of death and rejoicing. He had
                    thrown of the bondage of a second marriage, and he joyously contracted a third.
                    Every circumstance attending that sudden freedom, should have surrounded it with
                    a grave horror. He had executed his wife,—the mother of his child and our future
                    Sovereign,—on the accusation of being paramour to diverse men, amongst whom was
                    her own brother. He had himself asserted that he had lived in intimate relations
                    with her sister. Her mother had been slandered for his sake: and Dr Bayley in
                    his Life of Bishop Fisher (one of Henry’s victims), alludes to the belief
                    entertained by some persons that Anne Boleyn was the king’s own daughter. He had
                    sought to bastardize the legitimate offspring of his first queen, and afterwards
                    of his second. He had slaughtered churchmen for interfering with the
                    gratification of his passions; and he now slaughtered the woman who had been his
                    temptation.
                Out of that mass of sin, misery, struggle, and lawless con? fusion of rights, sprung the germ of our English form
                    of divorce. From that date, the power of the sacerdotal blessing stood in direct
                    conflict with the right of the civil law to annul it; and man was pronounced
                    perfectly capable of putting asunder those who had been joined before God. The
                    consent of the Church was asked to that divorce: the pleas held to be sufficient
                    to annul marriage, were set before the Church; but the historical result was,
                    that Henry set himself above the Church; that primary power remained vested in
                    Parliament, and the secondary power in sacerdotal forms. Law and religion were
                    both called in, but it was to help the lawless and the irreligious. The shadow
                    of Justice wandered, in the courts where queens pleaded in vain—in the
                    Parliament where nobles bowed their hearts, as they bowed their heads, before
                    the tyrant of England—and presided over the vain consultations of yielding
                    bishops; but its reality was wanting.
                Since the days of King Henry, divorce has remained an indulgence sacred to the
                    aristocracy of England. The poorer classes have no form of divorce amongst them.
                    The rich man makes a new marriage, having divorced his wife in the House of
                    Lords: his new marriage is legal; his children are legitimate; his bride (if she
                    be not the divorced partner of his sin, but simply his elected choice in his new
                    condition of freedom), occupies, in all respects, the same social position, as
                    if he had never previously been wedded. The poor man makes a new marriage,
                        not having divorced his wife in the House of Lords; his new
                    marriage is null; his children are bastards; and he himself is liable to be put
                    on his trial for bigamy: the allotted punishment for which crime, at one time
                    was hanging, and is now imprisonment. Meanwhile, nothing can exceed the
                    ignorance of the poorer classes on this subject. They believe a magistrate can
                    divorce them; that an absence of seven years constitutes nullity of the marriage
                    tie; that they can give and receive reciprocal permission to divorce, and take a
                    more suitable partner; and among some of our rural populations, the grosser belief prevails, that a man may legally
                        sell his wife, and so break the bond of union. They believe
                    anything rather than what is the fact, that they cannot do legally
                    that which they know is done legally in the classes above them: that
                        they cannot consecrate the new tie, or get the old one
                    annulled; but must be content to live, paired together in the only way that
                    remains possible,—or, run the risk of being tried at the bar of justice! Nor is
                    this confined to the lower classes: persons in respectable and educated
                    positions, from ignorance of the exact law, or in the hope of escaping its
                    notice, run the same risk. We have only to turn to the newspapers, and take the
                    first case at hazard, as an illustration. I find one tried before Mr Russell
                    Gurney, no later than December 3, 1853. I find, in that brief report, a story
                    revealed, which resembles the romance of “Jane Eyre” (except, that romance
                    always appears to excite deeper interest than reality). The couple whose
                    misfortunes thus flashed for a moment on public attention, were Mr R. W. Gray
                    and Mary Adams: the evidence showed, that Mr Gray had a wife, living and
                    undivorced; and was therefore guilty of bigamy. Mary Adams deposed, that he had
                    courted her for six years; had no money with her; on the contrary, supplied her
                    with money since his apprehension; had always been very kind; and that they had
                    a child of his, residing with them. The undivorced wife was living with an
                    omnibus man, and had been in a lunatic asylum! Mr Russell Gurney, in deciding
                    the case, observed, with epigrammatic truth, that “this was one of those
                    unfortunate cases, in which, in the present state of the law, if a man
                        were not possessed of wealth, he had no power to remedy his
                    situation.” Now, if instead of plain Mr Gray and obscure Mary Adams, the
                    parties had been Lord Grayton and Lady Mary, we should simply have had
                    “Grayton’s Divorce Bill” going quietly through the House of Lords, previous to
                    receiving the royal assent; and Lady Mary innocently looking forward to making
                    that forsaken home happy; by replacing the mad, bad wife, who could no longer be
                        a “help?mate” to her husband.
                        Not being persons of wealth and station, we have a trial for
                    bigamy, and this illegal attempt at happiness rooted up by the stern hand of
                    justice, which pronounces such unions to be tares among the permitted grain, of
                    marriages “dissolved by Act of Parliament.” Such an anomaly in the
                    administration of equal laws, is scarcely credible; but it exists; and is
                    murmured at,—by the obscure.
                This difficulty,—which exists for the poor, on account of the expense of our form
                    of divorce,—exists also for women, from the reluctance to allow a divorce on
                    their petition. The first instance of a divorce bill passed in England on the
                    petition of the Wife, was in the year 1801, in the case of Mr Addison, who had
                    lived with the sister of his wife. The late king, (then Duke of Clarence), moved
                    the rejection of the bill; on the ground that marriage in this country never had
                    been, and never ought to be, dissolved, unless for the adultery of the WIFE, which alone for ever frustrated the purposes for
                    which marriage had been instituted. Lord Eldon was then Chancellor; but the
                    speaker who answered the Duke of Clarence was the ex?Chancellor Lord Thurlow;
                    who was listened to with rapt attention. Lord Thurlow said, that he had been
                    excited by the bill to examine the whole subject of divorce, and that he was of
                    the opinion the remedy was not confined to the husband. He laid
                        this down as the principle that should decide judgment in such
                    cases: namely,—whether the parties can properly live together as man and wife?
                    He said—Common law and statute law are silent upon the subject,
                        and this is the rule laid down by reason, by morality, and by religion. Why
                        do you grant to the husband a divorce for the adultery of the wife? Because
                        he ought not to forgive her; and separation is inevitable. Where the wife
                        cannot forgive,—and separation is inevitable, by reason of the crime of the
                        husband,—the wife is entitled to like remedy! In this instance,
                        reconciliation is impossible—the wife cannot forgive the husband and return
                        to his house, without herself being guilty of incest. Do such of your Lordships as oppose the bill for the sake
                        of morality, wish or propose that she should? No. You allow that she can
                        never live with him again as her husband: and is she—innocent, and a model
                        of virtue,—to be condemned, for HIS crime, to spend
                        the rest of her days in the unheard—of situation, of being neither virgin,
                        wife, or widow?
                The speech of Lord Thurlow converted Lord Chancellor Eldon, who declared that
                    until he heard it, he had intended to oppose the measure; and ex?Chancellor Lord
                    Rosslyn also gave his vote on the principle so laid down; namely, the
                        impossibility of a reconciliation; on account of the peculiar
                    atrocity of the case, which left no ground for pardon, as common inconstancy
                    might have done. The bill passed both houses, and received the royal assent;
                    that miserable marriage was broken; and the opinion of Lord Thurlow so far
                    obtained, that in one or two cases of enormity, a divorce a vinculo had since been granted by Parliament on
                    the WIFE’S petition.
                Very jealously, however, has the privilege been guarded; and the strange contrast
                    between the laws in two countries which form but one kingdom,—(England and
                    Scotland),—is in nothing more salient than in this; divorce in Scotland, being,
                    as I have said, granted at the wife’s suit as a matter of usual and undisputed
                    justice. In what a different spirit the English law contemplates the fact of a
                    husband’s inconstancy, we may judge by the recommendation of the commissioners,
                    appointed, two years since, to examine and report upon law reform. In the report
                    made, they recommended,—amongst other “improvements,”—that even the nominal
                    right of petition should be taken away from the woman: that the husband should
                    retain his right to divorce his wife on proof of her
                    infidelity,—but that the wife should not, under any circumstances, have a right
                    to claim divorce a vinculo: that, in short,
                    instead of justice being, as at present (as it always is for women), merely
                        improbable, it should be impossible; and that all
                    the gentlemen in England who are so inclined, shall live in legalized
                        infidelity to their wives; the slender
                    remedy left to the wife, being that she may obtain permission to “live apart”
                    from her unfaithful husband. “But the crime of the man is nothing in comparison
                    with the crime of the woman;”—say the objectors. Why? Because—(and here we come
                    to England’s merchant spirit again,—property, not morality, being the thing held
                    sacred),—“because the wife’s adultery may give the husband a spurious son to
                    inherit!” Truly: and the husband’s adultery may give his friend,—into whose
                    house he has crept like a thief, to steal faith and honour,—a spurious son to
                    inherit. Or it may give some wretched victim of his seduction, a spurious son to
                    drown or strangle. Or it may give him a spurious son, by some
                    wanton, on whom he lavishes the patrimony of his legitimate sons. No matter! The
                    wrong done by him cannot be measured by equal weight with the wrong
                    done to him: for he is a MAN, and claims his
                    right of exemption, by natural superiority. As Peers cannot be hung, but must be
                    beheaded,—as members of the House of Commons cannot be arrested for debt,—so men
                    cannot be arrested in sin, on equal grounds with the inferior party.
                Now it is consistent with all the discretion of justice, that far greater
                    leniency should be practically extended, to a sex whose passions,
                    habits of life, and greater laxity of opinions, make their temptations greater
                    and their resistance less, than is the case among women; and a proportionate
                    severity may well be shewn to that other sex, whose purity is of infinitely
                    greater importance. But to say that divorce,—if permitted at all,—should be
                    permitted to one party only; that Lord Chancellor Thurlow’s principle, (that
                    each case should depend on its own peculiar circumstances for decision, and on
                    the moral impossibility of actual reunion), should be superseded by the doctrine
                    that only one party can be wronged sufficiently to deserve the
                    extreme remedy, is surely so obvious an absurdity, that it will scarcely bear
                    arguing upon: and would simply be adding one more anomaly, to laws, in which
                    already the jealous and exclusive guarding of
                    masculine rights, is often the foundation of the most preposterous wrong.
                Called upon to give assent to such a law, even Majesty might feel something of
                    the helplessness of sex: and muse on that accident of regal birth, which has
                    invested her with sacred and irrevocable rights, in a country where women have
                    no rights. The one Englishwoman in England whom injury and injustice cannot
                    reach: protected from it for ever: protected, not as Woman, but as QUEEN: as England’s Symbol of Royalty: and called upon in
                    that capacity, by the law officers of the Crown and “faithful lieges in
                    Parliament assembled,” to complete and perfect by her consent, the power of
                    men’s laws. Sign manual, and royal assent, necessary for perfecting and
                    completing those laws, under a female reign,—in a country where the signatures
                    of married women are legally worthless; where they cannot lay claim to the
                    simplest article of personal property,—cannot make a will,—or sign a lease,—and
                    are held to be non?existant in law!
                Too Utopian would be the dream, that instead of retrograding in the
                    degree of protection afforded by the present code,—better and juster laws for
                    women might be made in the reign of Queen Victoria! That in the exercise of the
                    functions of sovereignty, and the fulfillment of Parliamentary forms, HER royal assent might be recorded, as affixed to those
                    measures of increased protection of the weaker sex, which are the distinctive
                    marks of progressive civilization, as the contrary is the recognized feature of
                    barbarism. The same reign in which the pen of a MACAULAY has
                    defended the intelligent capacity of Englishwomen, might surely see changed, a
                    treatment based on the ancient laws of “Baron and Feme.” And the Queen who has
                    won England’s love—in addition to her hereditary right to England’s loyalty—and
                    who has shown, on more than one occasion, that the sagacity of Elizabeth, and
                    the courage of Cœur de Lion, are not incompatible with the most feminine
                    devotion as Wife and Mother—might well resist, for her women?subjects, that contempt of womanhood, which our
                    unequal laws imply. Leaving, in the blessing of better laws on this subject, a
                    brighter track of light, than all the boasted progress of the “Golden Age,”
                    ruled over by the daughter of murdered Anne Boleyn.
                In the form of our divorce, (since divorce there is),—surely the first step
                    should be first cancelled and altered. Our method of proceeding is,—that the
                    husband shall bring an action for “damages” against the lover of his wife;—then
                    apply to the Ecclesiastical Courts for the limited divorce in their power;—then,
                    to Parliament, to break the marriage altogether. By a singular form, if the
                    damages fall below a certain sum (forty shillings), though it does not acquit
                    the parties, it implies so much disapproval of the circumstances of the
                    case—where this is, for instance, proved connivance or worthlessness on the part
                    of the husband, or known vileness in the wife—that a divorce would not be
                    granted. It is scarcely possible to conceive a more pernicious system than these
                    actions for “damages.” That the form is not inevitable as a
                    preliminary step, is proved by the divorce of one of our peers being lately
                    obtained without it. That it can be no proper mode of testing the truth, is
                    proved by Lord Brougham’s history of the husband who made his compact with a
                    supposed lover to bring such an action. That it may be a base temptation to
                    needy and unprincipled men, has been proved by examples. That it renders the
                    woman’s chance of clearing her character more desperate (she being already
                    denied counsel or defence in the action to which she is no party), is shown in
                    the fact that it is reckoned “ungentleman?like” in the supposed lover, to cast
                    aspersions on the husband, which would merely reduce “damages;” and the defence,
                    therefore, is generally limited to disproval and denial of guilt. So that how
                    the wife has been treated, rarely appears in evidence. In principle, the award
                    of “damages” is absurd. If the husband be really high?minded, honourable, and
                    injured,—it is a mockery to pay him for such injury; if he be
                        not honorable, but base and
                    grasping, it is a strong temptation to him to threaten such an action, or even
                    to speculate on bringing one, without any real belief in the accusation: for a
                    small sum may tempt some poverty?stricken wretch to tell a tale which if
                    believed by the jury, would bring thousands of pounds “damages.” That it is a
                    shameful mode of assessing loss of honour, can hardly be denied. We criticise
                    the custom of Eastern nations, the wives and mothers in whose harems have been
                    bought, perhaps, while yet pure—in the slave?market: they might, in turn,
                    criticise our habit, of taking compensation in money for the wives
                    of English gentlemen,—when they are guilty. It is a shameful and barbarous form;
                    revolting alike to delicacy and common sense. I know that it is in the usual
                    spirit of the English law, as to injury sustained. If a man is falsely
                    imprisoned—“damages;” if he is libelled—“damages;” if he breaks a limb by
                    falling down your unprotected area—“damages;” if his daughter is
                    seduced—“damages;” if he is deceived into buying a bad bargain—“damages.” But in
                    many of these instances, the mercantile award seems a reasonable thing. The man
                    whose limb is broken, has paid a surgeon’s bill and been laid up helpless; the
                    deceived speculator has suffered actual pecuniary loss; the man unjustly
                    arrested, and incarcerated by mistake, has been injured in credit and prevented
                    from earning his daily bread: in all these cases remuneration is both proper and
                    satisfactory. But the English gentleman whose home is broken up, and who
                    receives money from the other gentleman who has carried off his wife, stands in
                    a position at once painful and ridiculous. And the Englishwoman—whose fame,
                    happiness, and future, are at stake on the accusation on which such an action
                    must be based; and who is nevertheless told that “legally” she can make no
                    defense—that she is no party to the suit—that she may not have counsel in
                    court—that she is not permitted to state either the circumstances of her
                    separation from her husband, or his previous treatment of her—stands in a
                    position which would be farcical, if misery
                    did not invest it with bitter solemnity! What a mockery in a case like mine—when
                    all my family and friends could have come forward, and proved on oath the real
                    circumstances of my story—must it have seemed, to be told, that I was “no party
                    to the cause”! That Lord Melbourne’s defence, and the verdict in his favour,
                    must content me! Leaving the whole world to suppose he had been the
                    cause of my quarrel with my husband; and Sir William Follett’s representation of
                    Mr Norton, as a fond, faithful, and injured husband, to stand as uncontradicted,
                    as Sir Fitzroy Kelly’s echo of that description, in the cause decided by Lord
                    Abinger when Sir John Bayley’s evidence was refused. The first step
                    should be the step taken in the Scotch courts. Let the wife be capable of
                    defence, and let the husband be untempted by “damages.”
                I turn from the subject of divorce, to the subject of divorceless separation;
                    full of the same difficulty of obtaining justice.
                The Legislature, which very properly discourages and discountenances separation
                    between man and wife, acknowledges no legal change in the position of an
                    undivorced woman. To stand the brunt of a vile and indecent action at law, and
                    afterwards reside apart from her husband for ten, fifteen, twenty years,—with
                    every human circumstance, except death, that can put divisions between
                    them,—does not affect the legal fiction which assumes that a married couple are
                        ONE. The husband retains his rights over her and her
                    property. If he please, he can bring an action for restitution of conjugal
                    rights; and he may seize her even by force, when “harboured” against his will,
                    by friends or relations. He retains the right of bringing an action for divorce,
                    even in a case like mine. Mr Norton had precisely the same right to divorce me
                    (if he could obtain a verdict), after the mock?trial against Lord
                    Melbourne, that he had before; and it may be observed in Sir John Bayley’s
                    letter, that on my application for some books and journals left at home, he
                    stipulated with Sir John (even while making amicable arrangements),
                    that, if those arrangements failed, he should
                    have the journals returned to him, “in case they might be of use to him in the
                    Ecclesiastical or other Courts”—this stipulation and implied threat being within
                    three months after writing the “Greenacre” letters! So that I was to be
                    divorced, or taken home again; whichever turned out most convenient and
                    feasible! I refused to receive the journals and MS. I applied for, on that
                    insulting alternative; and they remain to this day in Mr Norton’s possession. So
                    does much of my personal property; including the gifts made by relations and
                    friends on my ill?omened marriage. The law does not countenance the idea of
                    separate property. All that belongs to the wife is the husband’s—even her
                    clothes and trinkets: that is the law of England. Her earnings are his. The
                    copyrights of my works are his, by law. When we first separated, he offered me,
                    as sole provision, a small pension paid by Government to each of my father’s
                    children; reckoning that pension as his. The principle of the law
                    is, that the woman’s separate existence is not acknowledged; it is merged in the
                    husband’s existence; hence the difficulty in the matter of the contract. The
                    husband cannot legally contract with his wife: she is part of himself. It is
                    boasted, on the other hand, as an immense concession to the wife, that in
                    consequence of this merging of her existence,—this nonentity in law,—she cannot
                    be arrested or sued for debt. She does not exist: her husband exists; and if the
                    debt be recoverable, it must be from him. I have already shown, by the curious
                    case at page 96, that it may happen, on this principle, that the creditor may
                    lose his money altogether. In France, married women can be arrested for debt;
                    and it would be infinitely more just to the woman, and to the tradesman who
                    trusted her, that she should be responsible to the law, and liable
                    to a civil action, and that a husband should not be able to evade
                    the payment of a contract under his own signature, on the plea of the
                    “non?existence” of the defrauded party with whom it was made. “It may be law; but it isn’t justice,.” is a common phrase among the poor: it is a phrase of which I have
                    learned to appreciate the sound and exact truth. The argument, that the husband
                    may be bound by sureties, is useless: suppose what Mr Norton affirmed were true,
                    and that the woman could not get a surety? Suppose a case different from
                    mine?struggling against a great wrong, with good friends, and a clear
                    intelligence: suppose the woman friendless, helpless, foolish, ignorant, and
                    obscure—is she, therefore, to be cheated by the visionary supposition that she
                    is ONE with the husband, whose only assertion of a
                    husband’s right is to defraud and oppress her?
                A feature in that “oneness” which occurred in my case (and I think there is
                    scarcely any result of this anomalous position, that I have not
                    learned by personal and grievous experience), is, that a married woman (being
                    non?existent) cannot prosecute for libel. Her husband must prosecute. When the
                    first attempt was made by me to recover my children, I wrote two pamphlets on
                    the law as it then stood. One of those pamphlets was entitled, “Separation of
                    Mother and Child by the Law of Custody of Infants, considered”; and the other,
                    “A Plain Letter to the Lord Chancellor, by Pearce Stevenson.” The ‘British and
                    Foreign Quarterly Review’ published a long and vehement article against any
                    change in the law. In the course of that article, they undertook to notice my
                    pamphlet and my story, and to prove that it was entirely for me
                    (and most unfairly, for me), that any such change had been planned. The article
                    was full of distorted falsehoods, which formed a curious contrast with the
                    grandiloquent motto in the title?page in the book:—“In
                        primisque hominis est propria veri inquisitio atque investigatio.”
                    The whole history of my conduct, and the conduct of others was falsified; I was
                    condemned in the most vehement and unsparing terms; the fact that the Lord
                    Chancellor, Lord Denman, Sir William Follett, Lord Lyndhurst, and a host of
                    other great authorities, were earnestly in favour of a change in the law, was
                        entirely overlooked, in the desire to
                    prove a vicious influence on my part; and finally, attributing to me, with the
                    most astonishing audacity, an anonymous paper in the ‘Metropolitan Magazine,’ on
                    the Grievances of Woman, (which I had never seen,—which I had never even heard
                    of,) and boldly setting MY name as the author, in their
                    own index,—they proceeded in language strange, rabid, and virulent, to abuse the
                    writer; calling her a “ SHE?DEVIL” and a “ SHE?BEAST,” speaking of her “non?convicted gallantries,”
                    and pouring out vials of wrath, in words of excessive coarseness. No less than
                    one hundred and forty?two pages were devoted to the nominal task of opposing the
                    Infant Custody Bill, and in reality to abusing me. I read the
                    article with amazement; with curiosity; and finally with exultation. I thought I
                    saw, at last, a chance of triumphantly justifying myself. I sent for my
                    solicitor. I said—“You have told me that I cannot plead for a divorce by reason
                    of cruelty, having condoned all I complained of: that I cannot sue for alimony,
                    because that must arise out of a suit for divorce: that there was no
                    possibility, on the trial, of saying more in my defence than was said,—because I
                    was no party to that suit. Now, thank Heaven, here is a fair opportunity of
                    making my story clear to the world. I did not write the ”Grievances
                    of Woman“ which is thus insolently attributed to me, and indecently reviewed;
                    and as for all the circumstances in the previous portion of the article, you
                    yourself know that they are a series of mis?statements. I request, therefore,
                    that you will instantly commence a prosecution for libel at my suit against the
                    editor, and in the course of that suit, and the proving all his attack on me
                    unjustifiable, I shall obtain a complete acquittal in public opinion, and clear
                    up all that was left doubtful and untouched in the trial, where I personally
                    could have no defence.”
                My solicitor answered this eager and hopeful oration, in a few brief words. He
                    informed me that being a married woman and therefore “non?existant”
                    in law, I could not prose? cute of myself;
                    that my husband must prosecute: my husband—who had himself assailed me with
                    every libel in his power—who, for aught I knew, might himself have furnished to
                    the editor the extraordinary version of his affairs which appeared in the
                    review! Certainly my husband would be too glad of this powerful and rancorous
                    abuse of me: certainly he would not prosecute! Then there could be
                    no prosecution. I could not institute a suit. I must submit; and
                    the editor must slander me with impunity; sending out into the world, according
                    to the ‘British and Foreign Quarterly,’ a bold falsehood, embroidered with
                    bitter comments, invented of a woman utterly helpless, and already sorrowfully
                    struggling against defamation undeserved.
                I did submit. I had no choice. I was “non?existent,” except for the purpose of
                    suffering, as far as the law was concerned: it could oppress, but never help me:
                    and the grotesque anomaly of being considered ONE with
                    the husband whose previous libel, was the cause and foundation of this
                    subsequent libel; of having my defence made necessary, and made impossible, by
                    the same person; that person still my nominal and legal protector, in spite of
                    the changed circumstances of our mutual relations with each other—remained a
                    subject for leisurely contemplation, and helpless complaint.
                The law?forms respecting property, followed the same rules as the law?forms
                    respecting a prosecution for libel. Anxious to make arrangements for a future
                    home; less expensively than in furnished houses, I propose to take a lease; and
                    am told, that, being “non?existent” at law, my signature is
                    worthless. Anxious to recover property left at home; gifts from my mother and my
                    family, I am informed, that, being “non?existent” in law, I can claim nothing,
                    and that my husband intends to sell them. Anxious to leave what
                    little I possess through the generosity of my family, or the gifts of friends—my
                    furniture, trinkets, books, etc., to my two sons, I am informed, that, being
                    “non?existent” in law, it would be a mere
                    farce my attempting to make a will; that a married woman can bequeath nothing,
                    as she can possess nothing; and that my property is the property of the husband
                    with whom I am still legally “ ONE,” after seventeen
                    years of separation! Anxious to end the apparently ceaseless disputes respecting
                    a provision for me in this state of separation, I accept Mr Norton’s own terms
                    (after demanding others); I sign a contract dictated, corrected, and prepared
                    under his instructions, which I never even saw except for the
                    purpose of affixing my signature to it. And I am informed, that, being
                    “non?existent” in law, I have signed that which binds him to nothing.
                A mock?trial, in which I do not “exist” for defence; a gross libel, in which I do
                    not “exist” for prosecution; a disposition of property, in which I do not
                    “exist” either for my own rights or those of my children; a power of benefiting
                    myself by literary labour, in which I do not “exist” for the claim in my own
                    copyrights. That, is the negative and neutralizing law, for married
                    women in England.
                Now, that married persons should be ONE, in the holy and
                    blessed bond which unites them under a common roof, with common interests, and
                    in the common position of protection on the one side and affection and womanly
                    allegiance on the other, is just, fit, and natural; consistent with social order
                    and religious belief. But that married person should be still considered
                        ONE, without the possibility of interference on the part of
                    justice, when living alienated and in a state of separation, is unjust, unfit,
                    and unnatural, and can be productive only of social disorder and scandalous
                    struggle. In the first and more happy position of things, the husband is the
                    administrator and exponent of the law, for he stands in his natural capacity of
                    protector of his wife; that which is an injury or insult to her, is injury and
                    insult to him; and their expenditure is a matter of mutual interest. In the
                    other miserable position, he stands in the unnatural capacity of
                    oppressor of his wife; injury and insult to her are no longer a wrong to him; he is no longer the administrator and
                    exponent of the law, but its direct opponent (for the intention of
                    the law certainly is, that the woman shall be protected; and that he shall be
                    her protector). Their expenditure is no longer a matter of mutual interest; she
                    is a pecuniary burden; provided for with grudging, at a compulsory minimum, on
                    an alien and extra claim, apart from his household government or family
                    care.
                That this is a desperate position for a woman to be in; that if she has
                    voluntarily incurred it, she deserves much suffering; that by every possible
                    means, separation between married persons should be discouraged; are all
                    incontrovertible truths. But it is also an incontrovertible truth, that justice
                    should be made possible for her, even in this false position. That,
                    failing her natural protector, the law should be able to protect; that some
                    direct court of appeal should exist; in which (according to Lord Thurlow’s
                    principle in graver cases), the circumstances of each case should guide its
                    result, and the LAW exercise remedial control. It is vain
                    to say, “Let the woman find sureties:”—suppose her, as I have said above,
                    friendless; without sureties; or that the husband refuses all agreement. It is
                    equally vain to say, “Let her sue for alimony:”—she may not be in a position to
                    sue for alimony. Or to say, “Let her institute proceedings for divorce against
                    her husband:”—that, also, may be impossible. What remains (failing these), is
                    the doubtful claim of the creditor against the husband; which is,
                    in fact, a side?winded means of establishing the wife’s claim. It
                    is an indirect and imperfect mode of legislating for her anomalous position,
                    instead of a direct and perfect mode, which might exist—in a court authorised to
                    decide on the circumstances, and award an allowance—and might exist in the shape
                    of private appeals (as many other matters relating to property are already
                    decided). The present method of establishing the wife’s claim, through the claim
                    of the creditor, is public, odious, scandalous, and uncertain; unjust to the
                    creditor, and unjust to the wife. The other
                    method might be private, decent, and decisive; and make the wife herself
                    responsible to the creditor, after making the husband responsible to
                        her. It would be, as Dr Phillimore said on another matter,—taking out of the sphere of private animosity, caprice, or
                        revenge, that which never ought to be left to private animosity, caprice, or
                        revenge—and effacing that anomaly in law by which it assumes power of
                    control over the poor, and for corporeal punishment inflicted on their wives,
                    but forbears power of control over the rich, and for injuries of a different
                    nature.
                It is astonishing to watch the carelessness and reluctance with which inquiry on
                    this one subject is pursued, and contrast it with our eagerness of other topics.
                    In the reported Parliamentary debates of this busy opening session (March 1,
                    1854), no less than twelve closely?printed columns of the “Times” newspaper, are
                    filled with eager, credulous, kindly, or bitter, speeches from various members,
                    relative to an inquiry into the treatment of Roman Catholic ladies in the
                    conventual establishments of their religion! Because 2,500 ladies live in a
                    state of religious seclusion or relegation, of whom (though the majority
                    obviously must have adopted that life from free choice), a small minority are
                    believed by us to be enduring mental constraint and bodily penance, the House of
                    Commons votes, with eager cheers, for an inquiry into the whole system, for the
                    purpose of checking injustice and oppression, should it be found to exist. What
                    an impulse to humanity is an adverse creed! How easy to see that oppression in
                    others which we deny to exist among ourselves! Here are the gentlemen of
                    England, mustering three hundred strong, in the senate of their country; and
                    nearly two?thirds of that number vote with enthusiastic acclamation for
                    inquiry—into what? Into the treatment of women not of their own
                    religion, many not even their own country?women—while those very men scout the
                    notion of altering the laws, or even of making serious inquiry into the laws,
                    affecting the interests of their own wives,
                    sisters, and daughters! The beam and the mote of Scripture were visible in that
                    warm debate; and if the heads of Catholic houses should think it worth while to
                    return the compliment paid them, by inquiry into the treatment of women living
                    under secular authority in their own homes in England, I will undertake to
                    supply—not from the vague gossip of angry complaint, but from recorded
                        decisions in law?books, printed as precedents for future
                    guidance—such numerous cases of strange injustice, as shall satisfy all
                    inquirers that oppression belongs to no sect and to no condition; but to the
                    passions of men, when uncontrolled by the laws which we frame, in a faint and
                    imperfect copy of that serene and unswerving justice which belongs to another
                    world—not to this!
                I speak bitterly! I feel bitterly: I have suffered bitterly. Is it, or is it not,
                    a grating thought, that in a country so eager for justice, the last to benefit
                    by that eagerness, are its own women? Is it, or is it not, a grating thought,
                    that differences of religious opinion should give such interest to individual
                    cases of hardship, that the letters of two young ladies, put into a Roman
                    Catholic convent for education, by a Roman Catholic father, should be read to
                    three hundred members of Parliament, as a means of convincing and arousing their
                    minds to the consideration of one species of wrong; and that other wrongs,
                    touching English justice so much more nearly, should remain without a
                    possibility of remedy, by the provisions of English law?
                Is it, or is it not, natural, that all the scandal of my own wrongs being
                    revived,—and my character resting on the directly contrary opinions of two
                    men,—I should seek to uphold my argument of legal injustice, by shewing the
                    facts on which these scandals (by that injustice) arose?
                One of those men is the Prime Minister of England: high?minded, honourable, and
                    intellectual—still quoted as authority by his colleagues, still remembered and
                    lamented by his friends. He comforts me in the quarrel which ended
                    in a separation between me and my husband, by
                    bidding me remember, “That I had done everything to stave off
                        that extremity as long as possible;” that I ought “not
                        to be too anxious about rumours and opinions of the world, for, being
                        innocent and in the right, I must in the end,” (when is the end?) “bring everything round;” and that “it is
                        vanity in me to say that my place can be easily supplied, for that no one
                        can fill my place.”
                The other is—Mr Norton. He reviles me in the newspapers; he slanders my dead
                    brother, my mother, and my sons; he heaps indecent accusations upon me. At one
                    time he orders “the chain to be fastened across the door”
                    of my home, should I attempt to return to it; at another (by his own
                        printed and published admission), he kicks the door from its hinges,
                    to force his way to my presence, for the purpose of expelling me! Shall the
                        name of husband shield from condemnation one who has thus dealt
                    by me? One in whom years have wrought no change; who reiterates in cold blood at
                    this present time, coarse and virulent attacks, once again to sting me—me
                    only—for they cannot vex the dead. I stand alone, now, to receive them; and
                    alone I make my defence.
                If, as I have said, my defence be disapproved, blame the LAW, which left me the task of defending, instead of the possibility
                    of being defended. Or, if you still blame me, yet amend the law!
                    What have my faults to do with the real subject?matter? I shall die and be dust;
                    but the laws of my country will survive me. It is very fit and fair that there
                    should be repugnance and distrust, when women meddle in these matters: yet no
                    one can feel them like a woman. It is a rule you do not apply to other
                    subordinate groups. The petition of Spitalfields silk?weavers would not be
                    rejected, because they are silk?weavers: on the contrary, each class seeking
                    protection, is supposed to be the best exponent of its own interests.
                    Petitioning does not imply assertion of equality. The wild and stupid theories
                    advanced by a few women, of “equal rights” and “equal intelligence” are not the
                        opinions of their sex. I, for one (I, with
                    millions more), believe in the natural superiority of man, as I do in the
                    existence of a God. I hold it to be proved by all that ever has been attempted
                    by human intelligence in science and art; even in those pursuits in which no
                    natural or educational impediment would have prevented the success of women,
                        had they been equally capable of success. I cannot conceive
                    disputing the general fact, because exceptional circumstances arise, in which
                    individual women are superior to individual men. As well might it be argued,
                    because a clever child of ten, in a school class, took down his rivals and
                    seniors in every answer, that all children of ten, were cleverer
                    than lads of fifteen. Masculine superiority is incontestable; and with the
                    superiority should come protection. To refuse it because some women exist, who
                    talk of “women’s rights,” and “women’s equality,” is to say that John Mitchell’s
                    exaggerated orations for Ireland, or the Chartist and Rebecca riots in Wales, or
                    Swing fires in the rural districts of England, would have been a sound and
                    sufficient reason for refusing justice to all the Queen’s other subjects in the
                    United Kingdom. The rebellion of a group, against legitimate authority, is not
                    to deprive the general subject?party of general protection. Women have one RIGHT (perhaps only that one). They have a right—founded on
                    nature, equity, and religion—to the protection of man. POWER is on the side of men—power of body, power of mind, power of
                    position. With that power should come, not only the fact, but the
                        instinct of protection. Even the poor dumb animal will defend
                    its companion and its young. Even the tiny bird, that pants to death in a
                    child’s hand, will resist, to the extent of its fragile force, an attack upon
                    its nestlings and its mate. Power, in its purer form, is protection. Power, in
                    its corrupt form, is oppression. What is the meaning of that sympathy with the
                    heroic, which shews itself in all classes and on all occasions? Why does a blow
                    struck, or a sword drawn, in behalf of the helpless, seem to make a hero of the
                    Peasant, and a warrior of the Prince? Because the deep instinct of protection which lies in the human heart,
                    applauds, as the noblest and most natural exercise of power, the resolution to
                        DEFEND:—whether it be home, country, the honour of
                    woman, or the safety of infancy and age.
                Ah! how often, in the course of this session, in the course of this year, will
                        the same men, who read this appeal with a strong adverse
                    prejudice,—be roused by some thought in a favourite author; struck by some noble
                    anecdote; touched by some beautiful pageant of human feeling, seen among
                    glittering lights from a side?box; chaunted perhaps in a foreign tongue. And yet
                    I have an advantage over these, for my history is
                    real. I know there is no poetry in it to attract you. In the last act of
                    this weary life of defamation, I went down in a hack?cab,—to take part in an
                    ignoble struggle,—in a dingy little court of justice,—where I was insulted by a
                    vulgar lawyer,—with questions framed to imply every species of degradation.
                    There was none of the “pomp and circumstance” of those woes that affect you,
                    when some faultless and impossible heroine makes you dream of righting all the
                    wrongs in the world! But faulty as I may be—and prosaic and unsympathised with,
                    as my position might then be—it was UNJUST; and unjust
                        because your laws prevent justice! Let that thought haunt you,
                    through the music of your Sonnambulas and Desdemonas, and be with you in your
                    readings of histories and romances, and your criticism on the jurisprudence of
                    countries less free than our own. I really wept and suffered in my
                    early youth,—for wrong done, not by me, but to me,—and
                    the ghost of whose scandal is raised against me this day. I really
                    suffered the extremity of earthly shame without deserving it (whatever
                    chastisement my other faults may have deserved from heaven). I
                        really lost my young children—craved for them, struggled for
                    them, was barred from them,—and came too late to see one who had died a painful
                    and convulsive death, except in his coffin. I really have gone
                    through much, that if it were invented, would move you,—but being of your
                        every? day world, you are willing it
                    should sweep past, like a heap of dead leaves on the street of time, and take
                    its place with other things that have gone drifting down,—
                        “Où va la feuille de Rose
                        Et la feuille du Laurier!”
                    
                Will none of you aid the cause I advocate, and forget that it was advocated by
                        me? It concerns you all. It is a mistake to think that the Laws
                    depend only on the “Law?lords” for their passing. Few among you are lawyers, but
                    all are lawgivers. It is the business of the law?giving majority to pass the
                    laws; of the lawyer minority to see that they are fitly framed for passing. I
                    quote words that carry with them more authority than mine,—words of the late
                    Lord Holland,—to show the freedom with which an English senator may criticise
                    the opinions of those, whose minds by dint of legal training often narrow the
                    true considerations of such subjects to a single point of view.
                Lord Holland says, then, in a note addressed to me,—dated 10th May, 1839, and
                    speaking of one of the Law?lords (with reference to a measure already alluded to
                    in these pages):—
                
                    “Nothing could be worse, in logick and feeling, than his speech on the bill
                        of last year. It was, that several legal hardships being of necessity
                        inflicted on woman, THEREFORE we should not relieve
                        them from those which were NOT necessary, although
                        repugnant to the feelings of our nature, and indeed to nature itself.
                    “Whenever, and whence?ever, Lyndhurst proposes his bill,—from woolsack or
                        benches,—he will find me on the seat fate may assign me, ready to support
                        it. I honor him for not sacrificing his feelings on this occasion, either to
                        the pedantry of law or the convenience of politicks; and I heartily wish him
                        success in the bill. Yours,
                    “VASSAL HOLLAND.”
                
                Those are Lord Holland’s words; and certainly justice is not a thing to
                    sacrifice, either to “the convenience of politicks or the pedantry of the law.” If this pamphlet be an
                    appeal to English justice, it ought not to be disregarded because it is a
                    woman’s appeal; or because it is MY appeal. On justice
                    only, let it rest. Think if the smallest right be infringed for
                    men,— if the rent of a paddock remain unpaid, or a few angry words
                    of libel be spoken, how instantly the whole machinery of the law is set in
                    motion, to crush out compensation; and think what it must be to spend all one’s
                    youth, as I have spent mine, in a series of vain struggles to obtain
                        any legal justice! Or, do not think at all about me; forget by
                    whose story this appeal was illustrated (I can bring you others, from your own
                    English law books); and let my part in this, be only as a voice
                    borne by the wind—as a cry coming over the waves from a shipwreck, to where you
                    stand safe on the shore—and which you turn and listen to, not for the sake of
                    those who call,—you do not know them,—but because it is a cry for HELP.
                I add, in an appendix, a portion of the examination of John Fluke, principal
                    witness against Lord Melbourne, in the trial of 1836: indeed, the
                        only witness who ventured to depose to anything criminal in our
                    relations. And I repeat that I leave to the unbiassed judgment of those who
                    read, the amount of value to be set upon such testimony!
            

        
        
        
            
                APPENDIX.
                Sir William Follett,—who afterwards, in a private letter to me, and publicly in
                    the “Times” newspaper, disavowed all share in advising the trial
                    (though compelled to fulfil his duty as counsel, by conducting it),—early in his
                    opening statement, made the following declaration to the jury:—
                “I believe I shall be able to call before you every servant who has lived in the
                    house during the time; who will tell you that, however much their suspicions
                    might have been excited, they never did communicate to Mr Norton any of the
                    facts or grounds of their suspicion, until inquiry was made, and they were
                    compelled to disclose the truth. Mrs Norton was a kind and indulgent mistress;
                    they had no wish to say anything that would injure her; they did not; and Mr
                    Norton had no reason for suspicion until Mrs Norton had left his house in
                    March.”
                The ONLY witness, nevertheless, who deposed to a sinful
                    intimacy, was a groom of the name of John Fluke; who had been discharged two or
                    three years before,—by Mr Norton himself,—for drunkenness and street?riot, on
                    the occasion detailed in his evidence. I give these portions of his
                    cross?examination which decided the case (as far as his credibility was
                    concerned). He was cross?examined by Sir Frederick Thesiger at great length: I
                    give extracts—
                “Are you a married man?” “I am.”
                “Have you any children?” “Three living out of ten.”
                “They lived, then, over the stables in Fleece yard and Bell yard?” “Yes.”
                “Where did you remove to?” “To Monmouth street.”
                “What did you do there?” “I sold second?hand shirts and gowns.”
                “Then you kept an old?clothes shop?” “Yes.”
                “Had you the whole house?” “No.”
                
                “You lived in the cellar?” “Yes.”
                “Have you lived there with your wife ever since?” “Ever since, till lately.”
                “Mending shoes?” “Yes; and dealing in women’s old apparel.”
                “Have you been in good circumstances?” “I earn my bread by my own honest
                    industry.”
                “Have you been embarrassed?” “I was when in Mr Norton’s service, before I
                    left.”
                “Have you ceased to be in embarrassed circumstances?” “It has not been in my
                    power to pay my creditors all I owe them; but I have paid them as far as I was
                    able.”
                “When were you found out as a witness in this case?” “I believe about six weeks
                    ago.”
                “You were then living in the cellar in Monmouth street, carrying on this business
                    of yours?” “Yes.”
                “Have you continued to live in that cellar?” “No.”
                “Have you given up your business?” “I can return to it again: I have been to the
                    country.”
                “Have you carried on any business since you have been to the country?” “No.”
                “Have you been to see your friends in the the country?” “I went to WONERSH.”
                “What took you there?” “I went down by the coach.”
                “Is that your answer?” “I went down with my wife and children.”
                “Bag and baggage?” “Yes.” (Laughter.)
                “Have you been living at Wonersh since?” “Oh, yes.”
                “Have you been examined about this matter by anyone?” “By the attorney.”
                “By Mr Norton?” “By Mr Norton before the attorney.”
                “Where?” “At Lincoln’s inn Fields.”
                “And having examined you, they sent you down to Wonersh?” “Yes.”
                “Does Lord Grantley live there?” “Yes.”
                “Is Lord Grantley in Court?” “Yes, on the bench.”
                “How far from Wonersh does Lord Grantley live?” “He lives at Wonersh.”
                “You have not been living at his house, I presume?” “No.”
                “At a public?house?” “For a little time.”
                “And your wife and children?” “Yes.”
                “Who paid for you?” “I paid myself.”
                “Who gave you the money?” “The solicitor gave me the money to pay my fare.”
                
                “How much money?” “About 10
                        l
                        pound
                    .” *
                “Did he give you the 10
                        l.
                        pound
                     before you went to Wonersh?” “Yes.”
                “Has he not given you any since?” “No.”
                “You are sure of it?” “Yes.”
                “You gave up your business and went to Wonersh?” “Yes.”
                “When did you leave Wonersh?” “Last night.”
                “How long did you live at the public?house?” “About a week.”
                “What public?house?” “The Grantley Arms.”
                “Did you carry on any business at Wonersh?” “No.”
                “And you lived in that lodging up to last night?” “Yes.”
                “How have you been employed?” “I amused myself as well as I
                    could.”
                “Did you go out fishing or shooting?” “I have gone out fishing.”
                    (Laughter.)
                “How else did you amuse yourself?” “I walked about and exerted myself as well as
                    I could.”
                “Did you ever see Lord Grantley?” “Twice while I was there, and spoke to him
                    once.”
                “Have you not said that you were under examination for nine days?” “I did not say
                    under examination; but I went to the solicitor’s chambers every day; sometimes I
                    was examined, and sometimes I was not.”
                “But have you not said that you were under examination for nine days?” “Not to my
                    recollection.”
                “Will you swear you have not said so?” “Not to my recollection.”
                “Try to recollect?” “I cannot; I might have said so, but I cannot RECOLLECT.”
                “Have you not said that Lord Wynford examined you?” “Never in my life; I do not
                    know Lord Wynford.”
                “I ask you upon your oath, have you not said; that although Lord Wynford examined
                    you, he did not know what you would say?” “I do not RECOLLECT anything of the kind, or that I did say anything of the
                    kind.”
                “Will you swear positively that you did not say so?” “I cannot say, but I cannot
                        RECOLLECT.”
                “I will once more put the question about the 500
                        l.
                        pound
                     or 600
                        l
                        pound
                    . The “fare” is
                        from London to Guildford. Will you
                    swear that you have not said that after the trial was done you would get 500
                        l.
                        pound
                    ?” “How could I say such a thing?”
                “Will you swear that you have not said so?” “I never RECOLLECT of having said it.”
                “Will you swear that you have not said so?” “I never RECOLLECT saying so.”
                “From whom did you buy that cab, and the fly, and the gig?” “One from one man,
                    the other from another.”
                “And from whom did you get the cab?” “A man of the name of Saunders built my
                    cab.”
                “Have you paid him for it?” “There was a settlement between us. I really don’t
                    know how I stand.”
                “You don’t know! Have you paid for the gig?” “The gig was included in the account
                    to me for the cab.”
                “From whom did you buy the fly?” “I bought the fly from a man of the name of
                    Crook.”
                “Have you paid him?” “I paid him part, and I owe him part.”
                “Well, then, you have sold the cab, and the gig, and the fly; will you swear that
                    you have paid for any of them?” “I have paid part.”
                “Have you not said, that after the trial was over, you would get 500
                        l.
                        pound
                     or 600
                        l.
                        pound
                     a?year?” “Oh, dear! Sir, I only wish I may get enough to eat or drink,
                    much less 500
                        l
                        pound
                    .”
                “But I ask you if you have said so?” “Oh, no. I came forward with a free good
                    will, and to speak the truth.”
                “No doubt, but I asked you if you had not said that after the trial you would get 500
                        l.
                        pound
                    ?” “I do not RECOLLECT anything of the
                    kind.”
                By the COURT—“Do you wish to say that you did not say so,
                    or that you do not recollect having said so?” “I do not RECOLLECT ever saying it. I might have said it, but I am sure I
                    could not have said it. ”
                “How could you not have said it?” “Oh, I am not acquainted with law. I don’t know
                    what gentlemen give. I don’t know anything. I DON’T KNOW WHAT IS
                        GIVEN. I don’t know anything about it.”
                “Have you not said to Sly that you were employed to fish out evidence?” “I might
                    have said I was going after a fellow?servant.”
                “I give you the very words: did you not say you were employed to fish for
                    evidence?” “I might have said I was going after a witness for Mr Norton.”
                “I will have my words answered if you please?” “I do not think I said, ‘to fish up all the evidence.’ I might
                    have said I was employed to go after my fellow?servants.”
                “You have said you sometimes went a fishing. Probably this was the kind of
                    fishing you liked best?” “I did not say I was employed to fish up the evidence.
                    I deny the expression. I say, I might say I was going after my fellow?servant as
                    a witness.”
                “Might you not have said you were employed to fish up evidence, although you do
                    not recollect it?” “No, I do not RECOLLECT it.”
                “But you might have said so?” “I might have said so; but I do not think I have
                    said so.”
                “Did you not say to Sly, that you had been suffering a good deal of late years,
                    and that you thought this matter would make you amends?” “No; I only said I had
                    been out of place two years. I was obliged to work at mending shoes. Of course a
                    man must work if he means to get a bit of bread. I always did work, and work
                    very laboriously too.”
                “Well, did you say you had been out of place, and that this matter would make
                    amends to you?” “No. I might have done; but I do not RECOLLECT saying so.”
                “But you might have done it?” “I do not RECOLLECT saying
                    so. What I recollect I will answer, and what I don’t recollect I cannot
                    answer.”
                “Will you swear that you did not say to Sly, that this business would make you
                    amends?” “I cannot swear that I did NOT say so, and
                    cannot swear that I DID. The fact is, about making
                    amends, I do not understand at all myself what amends a man can have for
                    speaking the truth.”
                “Did you not say to Sly, that you intended to take care of yourself?” “Take care
                    of myself. I hope I shall always take care of myself.” (Laughter.)
                “Very well. Therefore it is not unlikely you did say you intended to
                    take care of yourself?” “If I had not looked more to others than to myself, I
                    should not be so badly off.”
                “Did you not say, that most likely you would be able to leave London, and retire
                    to the country after this trial?” “No.”
                “No, upon your oath?” “I have already said I cannot say I said so, since I do not
                        RECOLLECT that I ever said so.”
                By the COURT: “You were asked if you did not say you would
                    most probably be able to retire to the country after this trial?” “I do not
                        RECOLLECT, and how can I say what I do not recollect?
                    ”
                “Will you SWEAR that you did not say so?” “I think I
                        might have been able to go down to the
                    country, for I was getting on very well in Monmouth street.”
                “You were going on very comfortably in the cellar?” “I was paying my way.”
                “Will you SWEAR that you have not said, that after the
                    trial was over, you would get 500
                        l.
                        pound
                     or 600
                        l.
                        pound
                    , and would retire to Scotland, and would not care for anything?” “I
                    don’t RECOLLECT anything of the kind. I cannot swear I
                    may not have said so. I do not believe I ever said anything of the kind, but I
                    can’t swear. I have sworn already to speak the truth, but I do not RECOLLECT anything of the kind. ”
                “Now, Sir, again upon your solemn oath, I ask, have you not used these words, or
                    words to this effect—that, if all went on right, you would have 500
                        l.
                        pound
                     or 600
                        l.
                        pound
                    , and retire to Scotland, and not care for anybody?” “Never, TO MY KNOWLEDGE.”
                “Never to your knowledge? That is the only answer you can give me?” “Never, to my
                    knowledge.”
                “Have you not said so within the last fortnight?” “Never, to my knowledge.”
                “Have you said so within a week?” “Never, to my knowledge.”
                “Have you said so within the last 48 hours?” “Never, to my knowledge.”
                “Have you said so within the last 24 hours?” “Not to my knowledge.”
                “How was it that you left Mr Norton’s?” “To tell the truth, I got a drop too
                    much. (Laughter.) It was a Court day, and we generally have a drop at such a
                    time. Mr and Mrs Norton fell out in the carriage, and of course they put the
                    spite upon me, and so I was discharged.” (Laughter.)
                “Then you got a drop too much?” “Why, I like to speak the truth, and I confess I
                    had. (Laughter.) Mrs Norton was very cross, and you could not please her very
                    easily. She was cross because the black horse happened to gallop, and I could
                    not get him into a trot; horses will break sometimes, you can’t help it.
                    (Laughter.)”
                “And they put the spite on you?” “Oh, it is not the first time I have had it like
                    that.”
                “You like to speak the truth sometimes; you took a drop too much, eh?” “I don’t
                    know who does not at times. We are all alike for that, masters and servants.
                    (Great laughter.)”
                “Did not Mrs Norton complain that you had drunk too much?” “Mrs Norton never complained of that because I
                    was a good servant, though I did take a drop too much; a very good servant, and
                    you know gentlemen do the same sometimes.”
                “Have you not had a sabre cut in your head?” “No, thank God; but I had a touch on
                    my hip at Waterloo.”
                “How often did you take a drop too much, while in Mr Norton’s service?” “What,
                    Sir, during the four years. (Great laughter.) You have put a very heavy
                    question.”
                “But on a moderate computation?” “Why, some people carry a little so well that
                    you can’t tell when they’ve got a drop too much. I can’t answer your
                    question.”
                “Did it not happen generally in the afternoon?” “I was not drunk, Sir, every
                    day.”
                “But pretty often?” “Middling; as we generally all are.”
                “Did it ever happen that you had taken too much when driving Mr and Mrs Norton to
                    the Queen’s ball?” “I was sober going to the Queen’s ball; but when going to the
                    Marquis of Lansdowne’s in the evening I certainly got a drop too much; and then
                    the black horse began to gallop. Mr Norton got out of the coach and mounted the
                    box in his opera?hat, and I did not think he looked well, driving in that
                    fashion.” (Laughter.)
                “You were so drunk that it was necessary for Mr Norton to get on the coach?box
                    with his opera?hat to drive?” “I’ll tell you the whole, Sir. When Mrs Norton
                    wanted Mr Norton to do anything, he was so fond of her he would do it, let it be
                    what it might. So he got upon the box; and I, being a goodish sort of coachman,
                    did not wish to see my master make a fool of himself in a crowd; so I said, ‘If
                    you will drive, you must drive by yourself.’ I had one of my own
                    and one of my master’s horses in the carriage, and I did not like to see my own
                    horse doing all the work, so I preferred walking; a pretty good proof that I was
                    not very drunk. (Laughter). When I got to the Marquis of Lansdowne’s I expected
                    to see the carriage at the door; but instead of that I saw a parcel of fellows
                    cutting at my horse. I then said to my master, ‘Let me drive, and I will soon
                    get you up. The truth is,’ says I, ‘you look rather foolish;’ but he refused to
                    give up the reins, and I then said, ‘If you will be obstinate, I must take my
                    horse out.’ (Roars of laughter.) So I went to take my horse out,
                    and Mr Norton said, ‘John, John, don’t do that — policeman, take John away.’
                    (Great laughter.) I did not take the horse out, but a policeman came up and said
                    that I must go along with him. I said, ‘I am
                    very willing to go with you, my good fellow; I will go with all the pleasure in
                    the world.’ So he took me to the watchhouse.”
                “Poor John! And so there you were locked up all night?” “I was.”
                “Did you not make an offer to release him then?” “I wanted to take hold of the
                    reins, to get him out of the crowd.”
                “Did Mr Norton contrive to get the carriage up, driving with his opera?hat on?”
                    “So I understood the next morning.”
                “And then you were discharged?” “I was fined 5
                        s.
                        shilling
                     for being intoxicated, at the office, though I was then as sober as I
                    am now.”
                “Who was the magistrate who fined you 5
                        s
                        shilling
                    ?” “Mr Norton seemed to know him, for they talked together a long
                    while.”
                “Then you think your sentence was a very unjust one?” “I don’t think I was well
                    used.”
                “You were not drunk?” “No, when I went away with the policeman, no more than I am
                    now.”
                “It was very unjust, then, that you were turned off?” “Oh, Sir, when Mrs Norton
                    told master to do anything, he must do it.”
                “It was her fault, then, was it not?” “Rather more her’s than master’s.”
                “Now, did you not say that that d—d b—h, Mrs Norton, had got you discharged?” “I
                    do not RECOLLECT whether I did, or not, but I may have
                    said it. I had had my wife confined, I lost my business, and it was enough to
                    make any man angry, and speak what he did not mean.”
                “Did you not say that you would be revenged on her, or something of that sort?”
                    “No, never, never.”
                “What never?” “I did not.”
                “Have you not said that you were the principal witness against the Premier of
                    England?” “No. I might have said I was one of them, but there were a good many
                    of them.”
                “But you might have said you were the principal witness against the Premier?”
                    “The Premier of England! I never did.”
                “Have you not said they forced you to leave your shop in Monmouth street, and go
                    to Wonersh?” “I did not say there was any forcing in it. ”
                “Have you not said they took you away at a moment’s notice?” “I don’t think I
                    have.”
                “Did you not say you were to remain at Wonersh, and not to come to London till
                    the trial came on?” “I DID stop there. I remained there
                    till last night.”
                
                Another witness having also deposed to receiving money, and remaining resident,
                    with all her family, at Wonersh, for some weeks before the trial, the
                    Attorney?General commented on these extraordinary admissions in his reply. He
                    said —
                “His learned friend (Sir William Follett) had promised the jury to call before
                    them all the persons who had been in the service of Mr and Mrs Norton. But had
                    he performed that promise? ...... ALL the witnesses had
                    not been called; the evidence had been garbled; and those witnesses alone had
                    been called, who had previously been tutored as to the evidence they were to
                    give.”
                “The witness Fluke, was the one who boasted he was the principal witness against
                    the Premier of England, and said, ‘if all went well he should make 600
                        l.
                        pound
                     and spend the rest of his days in ease in Scotland.’ It seemed he had
                    been a soldier and fought at Waterloo. When he came into the service of Mr
                    Norton, he had a cab, a gig, and a fly. He acknowledged he had been often drunk.
                    He left the plaintiff’s service in debt, and swindled several people. He bought
                    the fly from Saunders to turn it into money, for he sold it. He had a colt, to
                    break in, which he sold for 20
                        l.
                        pound
                     and no part of the money did he pay to the owner of the colt. He then
                    went to Sloane street, sold the cab, and then took a cellar in Monmouth street,
                    where he set up as a dealer in old clothes, where he remained until he has ready
                    to sell himself as a witness; and a glorious day it was for him when he was
                    discovered. From such evidence as this, was the plaintiff’s case made up! Fluke
                    said he expected to be paid, because ’does not every man expect
                        to be paid?’ He (the Attorney?General) had a great curiosity to know if
                    he did not expect 500
                        l.
                        pound
                     or 600
                        l.
                        pound
                     and repeatedly asked him. All he said was ‘I do not RECOLLECT.’ —‘non mi ricordo’,
                    repeated at least 10 times. He (the Attorney?General) asked him if he had not
                    within the last 48 hours said that he expected to make 500
                        l
                        pound
                    . He would only say he ‘could not RECOLLECT.’ He
                    did recollect that he got so drunk on taking Mr and Mrs Norton to Lansdowne
                    house, that Mr Norton got on the box and drove the carriage; whereupon he
                    (Fluke) ran to Lansdowne house, and endeavoured to unharness and take away one
                    of the horses, which he said was his own; and his behaviour was so violent that
                    he was taken to the watchhouse! Would the jury act upon the testimony of such a
                    man—would they hang a dog upon it? If he had not said ‘that if
                    there was a verdict he should get 500
                        l.
                        pound
                    ,’ he would immediately and
                    positively have denied that he had ever used such words; but he did not dare to
                    give a direct denial; he merely said he ‘did not RECOLLECT,’ and it was not possible to call witnesses to contradict
                    that testimony. He took care to avoid the possibility of being contradicted, or
                    of being indicted for perjury. This was the expedient of a deceitful and artful
                    witness; but he would ask the jury if they had any doubt that he DID say so; aye, twenty times! Coupling this answer, ‘that he did
                    not RECOLLECT,’ with his swindling, drunkenness, and
                    history, could the jury place the smallest reliance on his testimony? Why did
                    they send him to Wonersh? For six weeks he had been disporting himself at
                    Wonersh, fishing, and talking over his evidence with Mrs Comyns, and considering
                    how he should secure ease for the remainder of his life...... Why were not those
                    witnesses who were living in the service when the separation took place,
                    produced before the jury? Not only were they not produced; but those who had
                    been in the service during the years 1834, 1835, and 1836, were kept back. All
                    those persons had been examined out of court; but it appeared that only those
                    who would answer the whip, and had such convenient memories as to be able to
                    recollect things which were said to have taken place years ago,—but had forgot
                    what had occurred within the last 48 hours,—were selected.
                There was a charge against two parties, and they should bear this in mind, that
                    neither of them could be called as witnesses. Lord Melbourne could not, because
                    he was the defendant—Mrs Norton could not, because she was the wife of the
                    plaintiff. Therefore it was impossible, if any witness could come forward and
                    say that he had seen a fact, when no persons except those two were present, that
                    that witness could be contradicted. They could only, in such a case, look to the
                    character of the witness, the probability of the story, and the credit to which
                    it was entitled. If a charge of want of chastity was brought against the purest
                    of women, and that no one but the accuser was said to be present, she must rest
                    her defence on her own innocence, the improbability of the story, and the
                    character of the accuser...... In the Ecclesiastical Court, time, and place, and
                    circumstance must be proved, but here there was nothing definitive; the evidence
                    ranging over a period of four or five years, and excluding all evidence of what
                    occurred within the last two or three years........ What family, he would ask,
                    could be safe, if at the distance of years, discarded servants could come
                    forward and make such statements, con? cealed
                    for so long a period, and which they themselves admit excited no suspicion while
                    the circumstances were recent, and while they were there to make their
                    observations? If they were to be brought forward at the end of years,—excited
                    with the hopes of reward, and of making their fortunes,—what safety could there
                    be, what protection for innocent persons? He could not approve of the manner in
                    which the witnesses had been carried off from their homes to Wonersh. He cared
                    not who was offended, but he would say, that the system of carrying off the
                    witnesses, such as had been detailed that day—of giving them large sums of
                    money—of exciting these extravagant expectations, that had been detailed,
                        if their evidence proved successful—was one which could not be
                    defended, and was a mode of conducting a case reflecting very little credit on
                    those resorting to it. No case had ever been conducted as the present had
                    been...... It was the duty of the plaintiff to have laid before them the
                    circumstances under which the quarrel and separation had taken place between Mr
                    and Mrs Norton, when it might have been seen to demonstration, that Lord
                    Melbourne had no more concern in the matter than any indifferent bystander then
                    in Court; that bringing such a charge against Lord Melbourne was a mere
                    after?thought; that it was what had never entered into the head of Mr Norton
                    himself, but was put into his head by others; he would not say WHO,—he would not insinuate who,—but it must have been some
                    insinuating rogue who had devised the slander.
                It had been asserted that every servant in the service of Mr Norton would be
                    produced, but Mrs Gulliver, whose testimony was most material, had been
                    withheld. If truth only was the object of the other party, why had she not been
                    produced? And why had not Fitness been called, who was at that moment living at
                    Storey’s Gate? They had not dared to call him, because he was there at the time
                    of the separation; and if it had not been that Mrs Morris had been called to
                    prove the handwriting of Mrs Norton, the circumstances which lead to the
                    separation, would have remained a secret and a mystery. Nay, it would have been
                    left for them to surmise, that Mr Norton had actually separated from his wife in
                    consequence of discovering her intimacy with Lord Melbourne. But what was the
                    fact, as it now appeared from the questions he had put to the witness, Mrs
                    Morris? Why, that a quarrel had taken place between them, on account of the
                    proposed visit to Frampton; and that in consequence of that, Mr Norton gave
                    orders that the children should be kept at home; and then sent them, first to
                    Berkeley street afterwards to Wonersh; and Mrs
                    Norton was thrown into the deepest consternation, and almost into the state of
                    distraction, at finding that her children were to be thus separated from her.
                    She pursued them all over the town, until she found them in Berkeley
                    street—where her tears and entreaties to see them were unavailing... But it is
                    quite clear that some persons have made Mr Norton a tool—an instrument of
                    shame—he has been persuaded to allow his name to be used; and used merely for
                    party and political purposes. Before I sit down, gentlemen, I think it right in
                    the name of Lord Melbourne to declare, as he instructed me to do—in the most
                        CLEAR, EMPHATIC, and SOLEMN
                        MANNER—that he never had criminal intercourse with Mrs Norton, nor
                    did he ever do anything in the slightest degree to abuse the confidence which
                    her husband reposed in him. I allow that you must find your verdict according to
                    the evidence, and that you must not allow yourselves to be swayed by the solemn
                    declaration of Lord Melbourne. You must look to the evidence—I wish you to do
                    so—but looking at the evidence, I say that it is IMPOSSIBLE to find a verdict for the plaintiff.
                The Learned Judge summed up at some length.
                The Jury having turned round, and conferred a few seconds,
                The Foreman said,—“My Lord, we are agreed; it is my duty to say that our verdict
                    is for the Defendant. ”
                The announcement was received with loud bursts of applause.
                A few days afterwards, Sir W. Follett thus deprecated the notion that he
                    countenanced the proceedings which he conducted as counsel; and thus publicly
                    disowned Mr Norton’s cause. So much for the great scandals, by which a woman’s
                    whole destiny may be darkened and wrecked!
                Extract from the “Times” of June 25, 1836.
                
                    To the Editor of the Times.
                    Sir,— Having seen in the ‘Times’ of this morning, that the action of ‘Norton 
                            v.
                            versus
                         Lord Melbourne,’ was advised by the able and upright Counsel who
                        conducted it,’ we think it is due to Sir William Follett to state, that the
                        action was not brought under his advice; and that although he
                        was retained so far back as the 25th of April last, the evidence was not in
                        complete state for his brief to be delivered to him until the 14th of June
                        inst., and when no course was open to the parties but to proceed with the
                        trial of the cause, which had been fixed for the present sittings.
                    We are, Sir, Your most obedient servants,
                    (Signed) CURRIE AND WOODGATE.
                    Lincoln’s Inn, June 25, 1836.
                
                THE END.
            
        
    
