
     ----CITATION----
        Butler, Josephine Elizabeth Grey (1828-1906). The New Godiva. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 99 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (15-June-1998).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7068
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    
                        
                            THE NEW GODIVA
                            A DIALOGUE
                        
                        BY JOSEPHINE E. BUTLER.
                        
                            
                                
                                    “‘You would not let your little finger ache
                                    For such as these?’ ‘But I would die,’ she
                                        said.”
                                
                                GODIVA.
                            
                        
                        
                            A LETTER TO THE INTERNATIONAL CONVENTION OF WOMEN
                                AT WASHINGTON FROM JOSEPHINE E. BUTLER
                        
                        MARCH 1888
                    
                
                
                    
                    THE NEW GODIVA.
                    A DIALOGUE.
                    SCENE.??A Smoking Room, Tyburnia.
                    THE INTERLOCUTORS ARE TWO BROTHERS, VICTOR AND CECIL.
                    
                        
                            “‘You would not let your little finger ache
                            For such as these?’ ‘But I would die,’ she said.”
                        
                        GODIVA.
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        The last of them gone, thank Heaven! Now, at last, we shall get a couple
                            of hours alone together. I seem scarcely to have seen you since you came
                            home. By the way, let me congratulate you on the figure you make in
                            society, after ten years in Queensland. Our friends to?night, I could
                            see, imagined they had been asked to meet a kind of savage, a sort of
                            wild?man?of?the?woods, and were surprised, and a little disappointed, to
                            find a cultivated English gentleman, well up in the politics,
                            literature, and even small?talk of the day, and guiltless of eating with
                            his knife, or helping himself with his fingers.
                    
                    
                        CECIL.
                        You flatter me. More than once this evening, I felt painfully conscious
                            of my social inexperience. When your friend Aimee, for instance, sounded
                            upon woman's suffrage, and eyed me with good humored contempt as I
                            feebly expounded my retrograde views on that subject, I devoutly wished
                            myself back in the Bush.
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        I deny the contempt. Aimee is incapable of scorn, except for what is
                            base. She is the greatest friend my wife has.
                    
                    
                        CECIL.
                        Indeed! I should have thought her too strong?minded for the gentle Mary.
                            You smile—
                    
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        At the notion of anything strong?minded, in the vulgar sense
                            of the term, in one of the most refined, tender, and lovable of women.
                            Oh, prejudice! what a miracle?worker art thou! You met a charming,
                            sympathetic, feminine creature like Aimee, and you are prepared to fall
                            at her feet. You hear that she wants the franchise, and instantly,
                            without any change in her demeanour, you dub her
                                strong?minded, a compound of Medusa and Mrs.Jellyby, an
                            unsexed, aggresive, officious, dangerous being, to whom all rational
                            persons would give a wide berth!
                    
                    
                        CECIL.
                        Aimee, at any rate, is fortunate in her champion! But, seriously,
                            granting the prejudice, and attributing it, if you like, to a very
                            natural cause, my ten years' exile from the haunts of civilization and
                            progress, I confess that nothing has amazed me more in my solitude than
                            certain recent developments of this woman question. Reading, of course,
                            can never take the place of personal intercourse with one's fellows, to
                            which, for all except scholars proper, it is at best an adjunct, and it
                            is very possible that my mind has been warped by the solitary perusal of
                            what Aimee would call reactionary journalism and periodical literature.
                            But failing such personal intercourse, I have read all the more
                            diligently, and, perhaps, I may say, honestly, and the result is a
                            feeling of some bewilderment at what would appear to be some very
                            curious, if not threatening, social phenomena. Even the strides of
                            science, inconceivably marvellous though these are, seem to me to be
                            less portentious than the moral revolution which is rapidly modifying
                            and displacing the sex.
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        Perhaps you would mention some of the more alarming of these phenomena,
                            some of the graver symptoms of the malady?
                    
                    
                        CECIL.
                        You are laughing at me. You know better than I do what they are. In the
                            first place, you have ladies' high schools and colleges—women receiving
                            men's education and men's degrees. Then you have lady doctors—women  familarized with dissecting
                            rooms—vivisecting rooms too, if our medical faculty is in the right.
                            Then you have lady members of school?boards and boards of guardians;
                            ladies 
                                wielding
                                weilding
                             the municipal franchise; ladies assembling in monster
                            demonstrations to clamour for the parliamentary franchise. Literature,
                            of course, has been their special field for long; but, so far as I know,
                            it is only of late years that they have joined the ranks of atheists and
                            agnostics, and that if you happen upon a magazine article of more than
                            common rancour against existing creeds, you are safe in taking for
                            granted that it was written by a woman. Last, but not least, you have
                            women initiating and banding together to promote an agitation of too
                            unsavoury and repulsive a character even to name. How it has come to
                            pass that any pure?minded woman could mix herself up in the remotest
                            degree in so contaminating a matter, I am, for my own part, totally at a
                            loss to conceive. It is, of course, impossible not to credit the greater
                            part of the large number of women who seem to be concerned in the
                            movement with honest, if mistaken and pernicious motives. I can only say
                            that, personally, I find it difficult to reconcile the notion of
                            anything honourable or worthy with a “mission” of that sort. To take the
                            most charitable view of the thing, I do not suppose that misguided
                            philantrophy, ignorant, 
                                hysterical
                                hysterrical
                            , feminine enthusiasm, even culminated in so painful and
                            revolting a monstrosity as this of the “shrieking sisterhood”—
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        That will do. Your outburst is natural enough, and you will easily
                            believe that it is not the first philippic of the kind I have listened
                            to. But before you go any further, I think it only fair to mention that
                            the ranks of the “shrieking sisterhood” have been swelled by a recent
                            convert, in the person of—your sister?in?law, my wife!
                    
                    
                        CECIL.
                        Gracious powers!
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        Do not look so distressed. I expected all this and only said nothing of
                            the matter in writing, because I felt a personal explanation would be
                            easier.
                    
                    
                    
                        CECIL.
                        But you have allowed it? you countenanced it?
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        Pardon me. There is no question of allowing between my wife and myself.
                            That is the relation between master and slave; or, if you will, between
                            parent and child, not between two grown human beings endowed with
                            reason. I admire Mary's “enthusiasm” and I share it, for reasons which I
                            shall presently explain.
                    
                    
                        CECIL.
                        Good heavens! The gentle Mary! The sweetest, tenderest, merriest little
                            girl of eighteen, as I recollect her. And so beautiful now, so young, so
                            fair, a man 
                                “Would not beteem the winds of heaven
                                Visit her face too roughly!”
                             If these things must be—and from your espousal of the cause, I am
                            willing to believe there is more in it than I know—surely they should be
                            left to older women, to matrons and spinsters who are tired of Dorcas
                            meetings and district?visiting. That they should take to political
                            agitation—and such political agitation—is bad enough. But a woman like
                            Mary! born to enchant society! a woman you can hardly endure to see
                            cross the muddy streets!
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        I can best answer you by repeating a short conversation I had with her a
                            few days ago. I found her one evening sitting alone—beautiful enough in
                            the bright light—the face whiter than usual from a vigil that had not
                            been tearless; the blue eyes still large with tears, yet, oddly enough,
                            a smile about the mouth. She saw me start, and turned to me. “I was
                            thinking,” she said, “how glad I am that I have kept my good looks. I
                            have found out the use of being pretty now. It is a proof that you are
                            in earnest.” “How so?” I asked. “It is not hard,” she said, “to make
                            yourself unpopular, when you have few popular gifts to sacrifice, when
                            you are wrecked by time, and, if not soured, saddened—as I suppose all
                            thinking beings must be—by age. But to embrace an unpopular cause when
                            you have, in a sense, the world at your feet; to lay yourself open to
                            misconception and calumny and  scorn,
                            and worse” (here she shuddered), “when you might surround yourself with
                            nothing but what is flattering and pleasant—this, I think, is to show
                            that you are disinterested and sincere.”
                    
                    
                        CECIL.
                        It would be difficult, certainly, to, look into Mary's eyes and imagine
                            her to be anything else. But go on. Did she say anything more?
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        She did. After thinking for a few minutes very gravely, she began to
                            smile again in that curious, tearful manner. “And in another way,” she
                            said, “I have found it of use to be tolerably fresh and pleasant
                            looking. It puts me quicker en rapport
                            with my girls. It shows them that at least I have known what it is to be
                            young and foolish. They write to me about my ‘dear face,’ my ‘bright
                            face,’ my ‘happy smile.’ All that is useful, and not to be despised. I
                            notice there are so many women who take up ‘work’ of various kinds from
                            motives which are not the highest. They want occupation; they are tired
                            of home restraints; they have had disappointments, and ‘epousent Dieu, parce que'elles n'ont pu epouser leur
                                cousin.’ Now, in my case, my children can never think I go
                            to them because I have nothing else to do.”
                    
                    
                        CECIL.
                        Then Mary has some class of girls?
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        Not exactly. Mary is a believer in individual treatment, and, never has
                            more than one with her at a time, if she can help it. She says she gets
                            at them better in one tete?a?tete than she would do in twenty classes.
                            Besides, classes are not exactly compatible with rescue work.
                    
                    
                        CECIL.
                        Rescue work. Do I understand you that Mary visits Refuges and
                            Penitentiaries.
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        I should have said with the branch of rescue work which she has taken up.
                            No. She has chosen a field which she deems of more importance, because
                            it is the most difficult of all, and the workers in it are scarce, as
                            yet. She and her friend Aimee visit the houses of ill?fame in the
                            daytime, try to reach the inmates separately, and when  they have got them out, which they accomplish
                            mainly by winning their affections, deal with each case singly, as the
                            special circumstances require.
                    
                    
                        CECIL.
                        I am bewildered! To hear you talk so calmly of such horrors! As if it
                            were a matter of course that one's wife should be exposed to such
                            contamination, should go freely into those dens of iniquity and
                            associate on equal terms with the wretched women whose very existence it
                            is a shame she should know of!
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        I am only not surprised at your bewilderment, but I can sympathize with
                            you in it. It is not till a man has given long, patient, unprejudiced
                            and unselfish thought to this matter, that any other attitude of mind
                            can be expected of him. We are all brought up, or have been until quite
                            latterly, men and women alike, to ignore, as far as it can be ignored,
                            that outward and visible sign of an inbred taint and of wide?spread
                            corruption known as the “social evil.” What we have heard of it in our
                            youth, we have heard illicitly and by stealth; any practical knowledge
                            we may have of it in later years, we acquire also illicitly and by
                            stealth, lest our mothers and sisters, lest any pure?minded woman, or,
                            for the matter of that, high?minded man, hear of our wild?oat?sowing;
                            or, if we are of a different calibre, and unfortunately brought,
                            officially or otherwise, into contact with the abominable thing, we get
                            through our distasteful duties as rapidly as we may, thinking nothing of
                            the tremendous issues, national and domestic, that are involved, but
                            only how we may pass on, with all expedient haste, to less unsavoury
                            business.
                    
                    
                        CECIL.
                        I confess I have not been in the habit of regarding this matter from a
                            “national” point of view. What do you mean, now, by tremendous national
                            issues?
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        I could talk to you on that chapter till morning. But I prefer to sum up
                            in words not my own the substance of what I should say. I can put my
                            finger on the passage—here—in my common?place book. It is from the  first volume of Froude's “Early Life of
                            Carlyle”:— 
                                He saw that now, as much as ever, the fate of nations depended,
                                    not on their material development, but, as has been said in the
                                    Bible, and among all serious peoples, on the moral virtues,
                                    courage, veracity, PURITY, justice and good sense. Nations where
                                    these were honoured prospered and became strong. Nations which
                                    professed well with their lips, while their hearts were set on
                                    wealth and pleasure, were overtaken as truly in modern Europe as
                                    in ancient Palestine by the judgment of God.
                            
                    
                    
                        CECIL.
                        I suppose there is no controverting the argument contained in that very
                            eloquent passage. But I am afraid I am a dense, matter?of?fact person,
                            not very susceptible to flights of rhetoric, and I own I should prefer
                            some less vague and general proof of your assertion.
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        As I said before, it would take me all night to prove it categorically.
                            For the rest, I am not a great believer in statistics. As George Eliot
                            says, “the driest argument has its hallucinations,” and I maintain that
                            men may dream in statistics as well as in demonstrations, and cut out
                            for themselves illusory worlds in the shape of returns, as well as
                            axioms, “with a final exclusion of fact signed Q.E.D.” But if you are a
                            stickler for figures, I will mention one or two. They will, I think,
                            content you. The number of victims—I will call them by no harsher name,
                            lest I come short of the truth—the number of victims to the selfishness
                            of men, the indifference of women, and the ignorance and callousness of
                            society generally, in London alone has been computed at 80,000. Suppose
                            it is only half as many. Imagine forty thousand women
                            living in a state of the profoundest moral and physical degradation, in
                            a servitude more abject than the most abject form of slavery recorded in
                            history, in a defilement as complete as anything we have shuddered at in
                            the annals of ancient Rome or modern Paris! The fact requires no
                            comment. It is not an agreeable fact; it is not a cheerful fact. But I
                            think  it cannot be gainsaid that it is
                            an important fact, and that it behooves us as citizens—I will not say as
                            humane and rational beings—to look it in the face. My common?place book,
                            which, with your leave, will remain open while we are upon this subject,
                            furnishes plenty of evidence, not of a “vague and general”
                            character, if more be desired. Here is a specimen. “I consider,” says a
                            writer who has earned the right to be heard on this question, “the
                            saddest and deepest of our social evils, the degradation of women, as
                            preeminently a sin against the commmunity, feeding the
                            crime and disease of the country to a degree that few altogether
                            realize. Out of 18,700 summary female convictions in Ireland, 11,463, or
                            61.3 per cent. were prostitutes. The statistics of disease would show
                            more terrible results still, could they be obtained.” Have you had
                            enough? Or will you hear another fact? Our slave?population
                            of degraded girls is of a transitory, not of a permanent character.
                            About two?fifths of them marry. What of their subsequent history? What
                            of their off?spring? What of a society recruited from such elements, of
                            a lower class so mothered? But, as I said, to my own mind no figures are
                            needed to expose the horrors of this national sore we hide indeed, but
                            secretly nourish—I had almost said cherish—at any rate, accept as a
                            disposition of things that always must be, as it always has been. For
                            one whose eyes are opened, the proofs of the injury it occasions to the
                            community, the deep?seated evil of which it is at the same time cause
                            and effect, are not far to seek. They are in every newspaper he takes
                            up, every book he reads, every chance conversation he hears.
                    
                    
                        CECIL.
                        May I interrupt you to ask a question in passing? I do not understand why
                            you insist on calling these wretched women victims and
                                slaves. Surely they are free agents like the rest of
                            us, and have themselves to thank for the plight they are reduced to.
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        Are women free agents? Do we consider our own women—the women of our own
                            class—free agents?  Even when we have
                            braced and strengthened them with all that care and culture can do for
                            them; when, amid the amenities of home life, we have taught them German
                            and music, possibly Greek and mathematics; do we consider them, so
                            trained and panoplied, fit to be launched upon the world alone at
                            fifteen, sixteen? Do we not look upon they as quasi children while they
                            are in their teens—indeed, in many cases, till they marry, at whatever
                            age? Do we not foster them, shelter them, shield them, demur to their
                            going abroad unchaperoned—continue, in short, to father them? Yet these
                            girls who make our streets unholy and our nights
                                hideous—you persist in calling them women!
                            What wondrous hallucination is this? Is it a far?off memory of the
                            “strange woman” of Proverbs? And do you seriously believe that three
                            thousand years have wrought no change in this thing—that the Judea of
                            Solomon's time was in all respects as the London of our own, that “the
                            profligate married woman of mature years, described in those verses,
                            bore the smallest relation to the wretched, hungry,ind ignorant children
                            who infest our streets?” Again, it is scientific fact that a rapid
                            physiological development is frequently accompanied by a sluggish mental
                            one. The woman of sixteen is an infant in judgment, in
                            reflection, in self?control—
                    
                    
                        CECIL.
                        But not always in experience.
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        Almost always in experience that is calculated to do her any good. Of
                            what use is it to her to know that infamy exists years
                            before her sister of the upper classes suspects it? How does she acquire
                            the knowledge? From the lips of the only teacher that ever kept man or
                            woman steadfast in innocency of life—the lips of love? Or from her low
                            surroundings, her unscrupulous companions, her coarse, unlovely mode of
                            life, and those harsh threats which sow the seeds of every evil they are
                            intended to avert?
                    
                    
                        CECIL.
                        It is the matter of fact that these girls are for the most part very
                            young in years?
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        It appears from the statistics of Rescue Socie? ties that the greater number are led astray
                            before they are eighteen. I will not touch upon the appalling fact of
                            the increasing desecration of mere children. You know that up to
                            thirteen the law affords them a certain protection. After that we have
                            ordained that these infants in mind and will, these unstable ones,
                            these, orphaned ones—for orphaned they usually are of all true
                            succour—shall be free agents. If they had so much good
                            fortune as to possess material wealth, we should guard that for them
                            till they were twenty?one. No plea of “consent” would avail one who
                            should seek to defraud tnem of their gold. But, if in a moment of
                            giddiness and blindness—ah me! of hunger and of anguish—they barter away
                            the one priceless possession that they have, what is that to us? She is
                            of age, ask her, she shall speak for herself. She is—thirteen! Good God!
                            It makes the blood curdle. Upon the condition of public opinion which
                            renders such a state of the law tolerable for another hour, I will not
                            trust myself to enlarge. I will merely turn again to the writer whose
                            impassioned words I have quoted more than once. “As long as ruined girls
                            are talked of as a necessity of a complex civilization, which delays
                            early marriage; as long as a high price is forthcoming for the
                            commodity; as long as Englishmen remain on a level with the Zulu
                            chieftain who, when the English Government sent him a present of wagons
                            and wheelbarrows, exclaimed, in fine scorn, ‘What's the use of those
                            things for bearing our burthens whilst we have plenty of women?’ as long
                            as the British Zulu says complacently, ‘What is the use of our bearing
                            that burthen of self?control which civilized life throws upon us, whilst
                            we have plenty of women to crush and degrade,’ so long the demand will
                            create the supply.
                    
                    
                        CECIL.
                        Stop a moment. You are going too fast. Your zeal, which I will admit to
                            be righteous, seems to me to be slightly outrunning your discretion. I
                            do not believe that the majority of men reason in that manner.
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        Oh, for that matter, neith1er do I. I am speaking  of their practical, not of their ostensible
                            reasoning. It matters very little to you how men talk, if
                            once you have the unlucky knack of examining the logic of their
                            actions.
                    
                    
                        CECIL.
                        Then you would give men in general credit for being so black?hearted?
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        Heaven forbid. My quarrel is with principles, not with individuals. They
                            are the victims of a false public opinion, that is all. For the most
                            part they have no conception themselves where that same unconscious
                            logic of theirs really lands them. I think well enough of my species to
                            believe that when any average man does know it, does learn, by careful
                            investigation, observation, and reflection, the true position in which
                            he is placed by the anomalies of our present social code, he repudiates
                            that code as he repudiates cowardice and baseness, and everything that
                            dishonours, deforms, and degrades his manhood. For the rest, if I
                            exaggerate in discussing this question, you must condone it on the score
                            of the centuries of numbness, of deadness, that have surrounded the
                            aspect of it upon which we are just now dwelling. We have hitherto
                            exaggerated our blame of the weak woman. We may be pardoned for
                            temporarily exaggerating our blame of the strong man. Let our endeavour
                            be to fix our eyes neither upon man nor woman, but upon
                                truth only, and the balance may be trusted to redress
                            itself of its own accord. Meanwhile, there are heroic spirits who are
                            not afraid of exaggerating their own share of responsibility in this
                            matter. There is a young man—a kind of Galahad—brave as only the very
                            pure can be—a true knight of modern times—who is giving his life to the
                            cause. He once went up to a group of outcasts, and told them from his
                            heart, with all the pitying respect and courtesy due to their spoiled
                            womanhood, that when he thought of how men had wronged them, he was
                            ashamed to look them in the face—he was ashamed to be a man.
                    
                    
                        CECIL.
                        You speak as though none of them had ever tempted men—young men
                            especially—to evil.
                    
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        I never hear that argument without thinking of that manly excuse of
                            Adam's: “The woman whom Thou gavest to be with me, she gave me of the
                            tree, and I did eat.” But granting, as you know that I do abundantly
                            grant, that most men are simply without the means of knowing their real
                            duty in relation to women; that we wrong them only less cruelly than we
                            wrong their temptresses, that we educate them falsely at home, at
                            school, and in the world,—are we, on that account, to keep up our
                            pariah?system with regard to the weaker class of transgressors only? How
                            did they become such? From choice? I answer most deliberately—No. In
                            Paris, the “brothel of Europe,” as it has been called with painful
                            fitness, it has been computed that only about five per cent. of these
                            poor souls voluntarily choose and like their life. They are in prison
                            and cannot come forth. The first false step has placed them under the
                            social ban. Henceforth retrieval is made well?nigh impossible. They must
                            “tempt” or starve. They are the scorn of women, the slaves of men. The
                            leaden pall of age?long custom, of tradition, of conventionality, has
                            descended upon them, as it were, in an instant, and effectually shut off
                            from them all hope of rising into a purer air. Last of all, the State
                            steps in to recognize their “trade” and fit them for it, to carefully
                            exclude them from every constitutional, as they are already excluded
                            from every social, privilege, to brand them like cattle, and set them
                            apart for uses less noble than those to which we devote the beasts of
                            the field.
                    
                    
                        CECIL.
                        But are we to condone impurity in a woman? Is there not something to be
                            said for the “age?long custom” which ostracizes a fallen woman? Is she
                            not a traitress to the cause which it is her special mission to
                            uphold—the cause of domestic purity, of untarnished family life?
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        No doubt the same reflection occurred to the Scribes and Pharisees when
                            they brought the woman taken in adultery to One whom they suspected of
                            disaffection  towards certain of their
                            existing institutions. But His pure eyes saw, through the mists of a dim
                            nature, a fairer day arise, when the responsibility of the family—that
                            unit of the State upon which its stability add strength depend—would not
                            be thrown alone upon its weaker members; when men, of stronger passions
                            if you will, but also stronger in the power of self?control, would scorn
                            to exact from women a standard of moral purity they were not prepared to
                            conform to themselves. Tracing upon the sand those mystic signs whose
                            purport we know not, we know that his passoniate soul was kindling with
                            pity and shame, and the sorrowful indignation of the man who, amidst
                            prevailing obscurantism, apprehends truth, who, amidst cynicism and
                            cruelty, hungers after love. And those scathing words when his trance
                            was ended,— 
                                “He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at
                                    her,”
                             —how is it that they have not branded for ever our unequal moral
                            standard with the infamy it deserves?
                    
                    
                        CECIL.
                        That it is an unequal standard must occur at times to every one who
                            thinks. But I have been accustomed to explain it to myself on the ground
                            that it is based upon a natural law. The infidelity of the woman saps
                            the very foundations of family life, confuses offspring, destroys the
                            home, whereas the license of the man—
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        Creates a pariah?class which cannot exist without the most deadly injury
                            to the family. How fatal to family life the existence in our midst of a
                            class of women dedicated to impurity must be it would seem needless to
                            demonstrate, were it not for the paradox current in some quarters that
                            its maintenance is actually a safeguard of the family! There is no time
                            in a desultory conversation like the present to refute this and such
                            like arguments seriatim, We are but
                            cursorily skiniming the surface of a vast question, which branches out
                            at every turn into fresh ramifications. But I may tell you that science,
                            medical and economic, is hourly proving the fallacy of any such sup? position. For the rest mere
                            common?sense, without the aid of science, ought surely to suffice. As
                            well keep an open cesspool at your door on the plea of its being a
                            safe?guard to health, as a moral plague?spot like this in your great
                            centres of population to preserve the purity of domestic life intact.
                            Apart from tlhe more obvious and hideous dangers, must not such an
                            institution react in a thousand subtle ways upon the atmosphere of our
                            homes? Is it not a standing education in selfishness to our sons, in
                            stupid heartlessness to our daughters?
                    
                    
                        CECIL.
                        What do you mean?
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        Ah! you should hear Mary on that chapter. Her education, as you know, was
                            neither more nor less Pharasaic than is usual with girls of her class.
                            But she has often told me that when she made for herself the discovery
                            that these nameless ones were her sisters, made of her own flesh and
                            blood, only poor, only weak, only ignorant, only ground into a foul
                            serfdom by the tender mercies of our Christian civilization, it
                            revolutionized her life. She had been taught that it was wrong to know
                            of their existence. When the scales fell from her eyes, she saw that in
                            that teaching lay the root of half their wrongs. And she has told me,
                            moreover, that it would be well if a childish, ignorant hardness were
                            the worst result upon the characters of women, of this division of their
                            sex into two classes, one to be cherished, the other to be destroyed.
                            She has noted in some circles she was at one time a good deal thrown
                            with—and who that has been much in society of late years will not
                            confirm her words?—she has noted a deterioration among her girl
                            companions and among women generally, which she cannot but attribute to
                            the same source. She says that in the conditions of modern society it is
                            impossible that the contamination should not spread beyond the limits we
                            have tried to assign to it. One result of the increasing disproportion
                            of women to men has been a tendency on the part of women of the upper
                            classes to ape  men's habits,
                            amusements, dress and so forth, and among other things, to adopt more
                            and more the moral tone which men think good enough among themselves.
                            How can the constant companions of “fast” men fail to become “fast”
                            themselves? and, in the over crowded state of the marriage?market, not
                            endeavour to outdo in dress, manners, ay, and in morals, their most
                            formidable competitors? It is their metier to affect the style the men they consort with most
                            admire, and who shall blame them? When men really worship and reverence
                            purity in women—not in the woman they intend to make the
                            mother of their children, but in women, in womanhood—things will mend
                            fast enough.
                    
                    
                        CECIL.
                        I suspect from what you say that the tone of society generally has not
                            improved during the last few years. I have been leading the life of a
                            recluse, and though you are pleased to compliment me on having preserved
                            a certain veneer of civilization, our talk to?night has made me feel
                            more than ever behind the world. I do not recollect in my college and
                            law?student days such a condition of moral degeneracy as you
                            describe.
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        Because, on the one hand, you had small natural affinity with it, and on
                            the other, it never occurred to you to take cognizance of it from the,
                            so to speak, external standpoint of the social reformer. Besides, it is
                            true that matters have not changed for the better in recent years. How
                            should they? We are reaping as we have sown. We have, as a community,
                            sown to the flesh, and, as a community, we are reaping corruption. I
                            have here a collection of notes, culled at random from the current
                            literature of the day, and from my own personal experience, bearing on
                            this part of our subject. Many of them are insignificant enough in
                            themselves, merely the straws that show which way the wind blows. Will
                            you hear a few?
                    
                    
                        CECIL.
                        You know my penchant for documentary
                            evidence.
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        The first I open to is from a book which has recently had an almost
                            miraculous amount of success among  all
                            classes of readers. It purports to be the history of a scholar, a
                            Christian, and a gentleman of the seventeenth century, whose varied
                            culture and catholic breadth of spirit are probably intended as a model
                            for all time. This is his attitude with regard to the virtue of
                            chastity:—“As a courtier and man of the world [John Inglesant] was
                            profoundly tolerant of error and even of vice (provided the latter did
                            not entail suffering on any innocent victim), looking upon it as a
                            natural incident in human affairs.”
                    
                    
                        CECIL.
                        Well, what more would you have?
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        Before I reply to that question let me give you the absolutely identical
                            views of a gentleman of the nineteenth century,—not a notorious roue whom we, I mean whom some of us, would
                            be shy of admiting into our families—but a man neither better nor worse
                            than other men, a “good fellow,” kind?hearted, honourable, and popular
                            in society. He figures in one of Whyte Melville's later novels, called
                            “Roy's Wife.” He is, or imagines himself to be, deeply in love with a
                            good woman, when he makes the following proposition to a friend. “Dine
                            with me quietly, en garcon. I've a box
                            at the Deucalion. We'll see the Ugly Duck—its rather a good
                            burlesque—and bring What's?her?name back to supper. It wouldn't be bad
                            fun.” Now, I need not point out to you that the author who credits a
                            young Englishman with so much respect for women in general, and for the
                            woman he loves in particular, is not one who is drawing on his
                            imagination. He was, on the contrary, better qualified than most
                            novelists to describe the bachelor life of our gilded youth. He was
                            himself of a nobler strain than the Fitz?Owens. Commenting upon this
                            young gentleman's theory of life, he says—“Lord Fitz?Owen's code of
                            morals was one of which we cannot approve, the result of a false system
                            of education..... He could see that it was wrong to disturb wedded
                            happiness and the peace of families, to blight a girl's hopes, or taint
                            a woman's reputation before the world with the lightest breath of  shame. Such injuries he would no more
                            have inflicted than he would have .... struck a man when he was down. To
                            his own code of social morality as it may be called, he adhered
                            strictly, but this left a wide range wherein he felt at liberty to
                            disport himself, as he pleased.” Is not that John Inglesant to the
                            letter? “Tolerant of vice provided it did not entail suffering on any
                            innocent victim, looking upon it as a natural incident in human
                            affairs.”
                    
                    
                        CECIL.
                        Precisely; and I say again, what more can you expect? You are not,
                            surely, sanguine enough to suppose that the “man of the world” will ever
                            look at it in any other point of view?
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        Why should he not?
                    
                    
                        CECIL.
                        Why? The thing is an absurdity. And so about this pariah class, as you
                            call it. It always has existed, and it always will exist.
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        Spare me that time?honoured argument. It has been pleaded against every
                            reform that ever germinated in the brain of prophet or seer, and, having
                            drained his heart's blood, and procured for him the proud reward of
                            cross or stake, went forth triumphant through an adoring world, and
                            became a truism on children's lips. I am not so credulous as to suppose
                            that we can eradicate vice any more than that we can eradicate murder or
                            theft. What I do maintain is that we can eradicate tolerated and
                            approved and legalized vice, and that by a due leavening of public
                            opinion we can place it where it should be—in the same category with
                            murder and theft. Have we ceased to regard the soul as of greater worth
                            than the body? It is the murder of the soul. Do we revere the body? It
                            is the theft of all that sanctifies that “temple.”
                    
                    
                        CECIL.
                        But if the murder be already done, the theft committed?
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        Let me recall to you that social code of Lord Fitz?Owen's. He would not
                            “strike a man when he was down.” That would have been as heinous as to
                            cheat a  man at cards, break your
                            solemn word to a man, be guilty, in short, of any dishonourable act
                            towards your equal and associate—man. But when it comes to
                            a woman—when it is a woman who is “down”—what then? Plunge
                            her lower! Heap infamy upon her! Place one more stumbling?block in the
                            way of her retrieval! Do your best that she shall continue a by?word!
                            You have law on your side, you have society on your side, you have—or
                            until quite recently you had—women your side, you have immemorial usage
                            on your side, and that noble “always?has?been?and?always?must?be” as
                            your excuse. Against you, you have only—shall I call it the law of
                            God?—the immutable law of Goodness which will have mercy and not
                            subscriptions to charity?lists, and justice rather than many missionary
                            societies. But we are digressing. I will now give you a “straw” of a
                            more portentous character. I have it recorded here in the terse form of
                            a letter addressed not a great while since to a newspaper by a lady
                            signing herself “A Soldier's Sister.” Referring to the case of an
                            ex?officer of the British Army, who was cashiered for what the judge who
                            sentenced him described as “a wicked outrage which I must call cowardly
                            and dishonourable,” she remarks that “the world to her has been a
                            drearier place since 359 members of a leading club have pronounced that
                            the conduct for which he was expelled the army has not detracted
                                from his character as a gentleman.” Again I refrain from
                            commenting upon the moral condition of a society in which such a
                            phenomenon is possible. Let us pass on. My next extract is from a
                                Times' Parliamentary report of last session. It shows,
                            as you will see, that there is something irresistibly ludicrous to our
                            senators in women meddling with politics at all; but that when they
                            meddle with them at the expense of their dearest prejudices, and of
                            their keenest susceptibilities, when they meddle with them at the cost
                            of their happiness, their peace of mind, their health—ah me! of their
                            reputation itself—that then the joke becomes truly exquisite.
                    
                    
                    
                        CECIL.
                        You refer, of course, to the annual difficulty of clearing the Ladies'
                            Gallery when the objectionable Acts are under discussion. I cannot bring
                            myself to see that it is in any way necessary—nay, that it is not highly
                            undesirable that it should be occupied on those occasions.
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        Waiving that question for the moment, you must agree with me that the
                            manner and mood in which its clearance is sought to be effected leave
                            something to be desired. In the course of a brief disussion on the
                            motion to exclude strangers, the Times reports “laughter”
                            no less than five times. After this the common talk about Christianity
                            elevating the social status of women, about chivalry “through which the
                            reverence of man for woman became an integral part of the moral
                            structure of society!” smacks somewhat of irony. “Integral part of the
                            structure of society!” We have not learned the A B C of true reverence
                            for women.
                    
                    
                        CECIL.
                        You surprise me: one would expect the graver aspects of these questions
                            to appeal to men responsible for public affairs.
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        The causes of the anomaly, like the causes of everything else, lie buried
                            deep in the past, and would require half a lifetime to disinter and
                            disentangle. But one broad fact may be stated, without fear of
                            contradiction, which accounts for a good deal. The Christian Church
                            (though the world owes to her the first recognition of personal purity,
                            as a binding obligation on man and woman alike) in violent reaction
                            against the excesses of the worn?out Pagan world, started off in very
                            early times on the wrong tack. She made the grand—I had almost said the
                            irretrievable error—of seeking to be wiser than nature, wiser than God.
                            Instead of placing purity where it was intended to be, in the very head
                            and forefront of all the moral virtues, she gave it a second place; she
                            subordinated purity, with marriage for its end and crown,
                            and conjugal fidelity for its sacred duty and ideal, to a fantastic
                            invention of her own called virginity. The result was, as
                            might have been foretold, a speedy lowering of the chimerical standard, and a hopeless
                            confusion of moral ideals. Concessions had to be made to the weak, sin
                            had to be winked at; the doctrine of the “higher spiritual life” had to
                            be invented—by the devil.
                    
                    
                        CECIL.
                        And pray why—by the devil?
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        Because a dual standard of morality can by no possibility have any other
                            parentage. As soon as you admit that there can be a different standard
                            of right and wrong, in essential matters, for pope and emperor, for monk
                            and man of the world, for clergy and laity, you open the door to evrey
                            sort of logical fallacy, and every form of creeping, contemptible
                            iniquty. You speedily reach a state of things typified by the immortal
                            grocer of “sand?the?sugar?and?then?come?into?prayers” celebrity, or by
                            the Italian cut?throat who mutters an orison to the Virgin, with one
                            hand on his stiletto and the other in your pocket.
                    
                    
                        CECIL.
                        What about the Reformation? Did not the vessel of the church shift her
                            course a little at that time?
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        She did little more than exchange the Scylla of ceremonial for the
                            Charybdis of dogma. And between these two she has most pitifully wavered
                            ever since; the two opposing parties, Orthodox and Heretic, Catholic and
                            Protestant, High and Low—call them what you will—too much occupied in
                            vituperating each other to notice that all the time the angel of
                                Goodness was standing without, forgotten and alone,
                            yea, though his outstretched hands bore the print of the nails, and his
                            face was, as it were, the face of the Christ.
                    
                    
                        CECIL.
                        The charge is a terribly sweeping one.
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        Let me remind you, I am not speaking of individuals, of the handful of
                            men who have battled in all ages, and in all communions, and who, as I
                            thankfully acknowledge, are battling at the present moment, with real,
                            not with what Milton called scarecrow, sins. But ask the average
                            clergyman or minister whether he preaches against fornication, as St.
                            Paul did. Your invariable reply will be something in  which the phrase “mixed congregations” is
                            chiefly audible.
                    
                    
                        CECIL.
                        But do you not sympathize with him in his difficulty? How can he shape
                            his discourse so that it shall not offend—I do not say the prude or the
                            Philistine—but the little ones of his flock?
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        I wonder whether these nice considerations weighed with St. Paul, when he
                            lifted up his voice against the torrent of evil he saw threatening to
                            overwhelm the world, or with the Baptist, when he cried to men in the
                            wilderness to flee from the wrath to come! But tell me, where do you
                            hear even the secondary causes of immorality denounced as they should
                            be, and could be, without offense to any, from every pulpit in the land?
                            Where is the prophet, who proclaims that selfish luxury, that busy
                            idleness, that the life devoted to pleasure, to sport, to tittle?tattle,
                            or worse, is absolutely and unconditionally sinful, more sinful I say it
                            without a shadow of hesitation—more sinful than the life of the wretched
                            housebreaker or pickpocket, than the life of the child?harlot, be she
                            nine or nineteen? Where do you hear the hideous forced over?crowding of
                            our people, and the avariciousness of landlords, and supineness of
                            munipalities, to the health and morals of the people denounced as they
                            ought to be? Where do you hear the miserable condition of the large
                            majority of working women and domestic servants exposed as it should
                            be—the horrible extortion and oppression, whether voluntary or not, of
                            the employers of women's labour, the starvation rate of wages, literally
                            forcing them into sin, the total absence of every form of innocent
                            recreation such as the young need, of all cheerful kindly sympathy in
                            their bitter struggle for existence?
                    
                    
                        CECIL.
                        To hear you talk, one would suppose the “Song of the Shirt” might have
                            been written yesterday.
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        Ay, and its sequal the “Bridge of Sighs.” There are at the present moment
                            in London about 60,000 working girls earning wages barely sufficient to
                            support life. What do you say, for instance, to shirt?making at 2
                                d.
                                pence
                            , 1¾
                                d.
                                pence
                            , 
                                some?
                                sometime
                             time one penny
                            each? The white slave, thus remunerated, can make six, or eight, perhaps
                            even a dozen shirts in a day, by sitting at her machine from six in the
                            morning till twelve at night. Out of this stupendous wage, she has
                                to find her own thread. Or her trade, perchance, is the
                            making of women's ulsters. For one of these garments, selling at 7
                                s.
                                shilling
                             11
                                d.
                                pence
                            , she will be paid 2
                                d.
                                pence
                            ; for one selling at 25
                                s.
                                shilling
                            , 6
                                d.
                                pence
                             She can, with difficulty, make six in a day; thus earn a
                            glorious income, out of which, as you may imagine, she scarcely misses 5
                                d.
                                pence
                             for every dozen ulsters spent in twist and cotton! Or she is
                            an apprentice, aged fifteen, in a house of business, a mile or two from
                            her home. The walk is long, the hours of attendance are long, and she is
                            often very weary. And she earns 2
                                s.
                                shilling
                            , sometimes 1
                                s.
                                shilling
                             a week!
                    
                    
                        CECIL.
                        And your theory is that this miserable and really iniquitous rate of
                            payment. is one of the great feeders of the social evil?
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        Is it necessary of theories? Do not the facts
                            stare one in the face? And yet we scorn, and yet we condemn, and yet we
                            pass by on the other side. How can we expect self?control, self?denial,
                            self?respect, from those poor shivering, underfed bodies, to whom a
                            hearty meal, a warm good garment, an hour's frolic, comes only in the
                            form of temptation? It grows late, and the note?book, which you have had
                            too much of already, must be put away for to?night, or I could poison
                            your dreams with some entries under this head.
                    
                    
                        CECIL.
                        There is time for one or two.
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        A lady who devotes herself to some of these friendless ones, principally
                            young servants who have forfeited their characters,
                                writes:—“The feeding of poor girls at home has much to
                            do with their unsatisfactory service. They go with a weak body to work
                            hard—no appetite when they can get food.” Another lady says:—“I know of
                            workroom where they have no fires until a certain date no matter how
                            cold it may be. During last November
                            the girls suffered horribly, and for one of them I had to procure a
                            ticket as out?patient to a hospital, her delicacy having been chiefly
                            induced through constant suffering from cold whilst at work.” A doctor
                            at Islington informs a daily paper that “within half a mile of my place
                            there are a large number of retail establishments, chiefly of the cheap
                            and competing kind, and at the present time I have on my books more than
                            a dozen patients, young women, whose 
                                ailments
                                aliments
                             are entirely attributable to the excessive number of hours
                            they are compelled to work, and to their being constantly on their
                            feet.” These same patients are described as “some weak and fragile,
                            others more robust, but all alike suffering intense pain,
                            the natural consequence of being on their feet thirteen or fourteen
                            hours every day, and sixteen or seventeen on a Saturday.....” And now to
                            bed, with what appetite for sleep you may!
                    
                    
                        CECIL.
                        Stay a moment. Time was made for slaves. Do you know you have touched me
                            a good deal for these young creatures?
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        If I could tell you all that I have heard from a woman's lips of what
                            women, even women of the well?nourished classes, suffer from the frailty
                            of their bodies, the chronic lassitude, the regiment of woes falling
                            under the to us mysterious head of “nerves,” the hidden sufferings of
                            potential and actual motherhood which suck the energy and verve from
                            life, as we men know it—but I have said enough. Cecil! it is time we
                            shook off the selfishness of our cynicism, whether of word or act, and
                            rose to a manlier view of our responsibilities towards the other sex. It
                            is time we assumed something of the prerogative of strength; protection,
                            even of the vile; pity, even for the temptress, spoiled, seared,
                            bestialized by sin; reverence even for that most horrible, and happily
                            rare thing, a womanhood tainted from the birth by hereditary guilt, and
                            altogether past redemption by any effort of ours. Shall we not
                                remember—
                            
                                “What 'tis to be a man—to curb and spurn
                                The tyrant in us—that ignobler self,
                                Which boasts not loathes its likeness to the brute,
                                And owns no good save ease, no ill save pain!”
                            
                    
                    
                        CECIL.
                        Believe me, I do not speak mockingly when I say that I am ashamed to
                            interrupt you with a reflection that has occurred to me more than once
                            in the course of your remarks. But you will not misunderstand me. You
                            have incidentally referred to a difference of opinion as to the
                                necessity for the existence of an outcast class. I
                            think you have disposed of your opponent's case from the more strictly
                            social point of view. But you have touched very lightly upon the
                            hygienic question. If I am rightly informed, the medical faculty are not
                            altogether at one upon the point, and I understand that some doctors of
                            repute are in the habit of giving young men counsel diametrically
                            opposed to that which you would offer them.
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        Believe me, I do not speak thoughtlessly when I say that I am ashamed,
                            always deeply ashamed and humiliated, when I am called upon to encounter
                            that argument. It shows a profound ignorance of sound human physiology,
                            which teaches us that self?government is the principle of individual
                            health, and chastity the condition a strong national growth. Two words
                            should guide medical counsel—Temperance and Occupation. But usually I
                            prefer to meet this difficulty with a reductio
                                ad absurdum. If the existence of a class of hetæræ is a necessity, it
                            should be not only, as indeed it is already, recognized by law as an
                            industry like any other, but respected socially as an important factor
                            in the national health and well?being. It should be recruited—if there
                            is anything in the enthusiasm of humanity not solely from the daughters
                            of the people, because forsooth, they are the most defenceless; but
                            fathers and brothers of the well?to?do classes, willing Jephthahs should
                            occasionally, from patriotic motives—
                    
                    
                        CECIL.
                        Hold! hold! A jest may be carried too far.
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        Not in this connection. What do you say, for  instance, to the jest of a magistrate at
                            Orleans the other day, who, when a poor victim was about to name the
                            wealthy scoundrel who had been her moral murderer, shut her mouth with,
                            “Hush! Do not compromise the honour of a respectable man!”
                            But this in passing. No, I do but depict the logical consequences of
                            these theories about the necessity of vice. All I have said
                            should, logically, take place, and something more. We should pull down,
                            not only our churches—that goes without saying—but the institutes and
                            lecture?rooms where we inculcate humanity, ay, and the hospitals and
                            asylums where we practise it. We should once and for ever do away with
                            our religion, of course, but equally with our cant of virtue, of
                            altruism, of a race made perfect by upward striving, and glorious by
                            self?renunciation. If we are so inconceivably selfish, cruel, and
                            bestial as to set aside in cold blood a certain number of thousands of
                            poor girls—not being OUR OWN sisters and daughters—as a
                            holocaust; natural and necessary for the good of the
                            community—why, we may talk of Suttee and the torturing of Hindu widows,
                            we may talk of the atrocities of Mohammedan harems and of Australian
                            savagedom—the only difference between these degraded barbarians and
                            ourselves will be that we shall be a thousand times more degraded, more
                            contemptible, more unspeakable than they, for we have prided ourselves
                            on our civilization, we have prated of virtue, we have received, century
                            after century, upon our foreheads the symbol of self?effacement, the
                            sign of the Cross, and we have called ourselves for ages by the name of
                            the pure and compassionate Christ.
                    
                    
                        CECIL.
                        I was thinking how our conversation began. Was it not with Aimee and the
                            “shrieking sisterhood?” I should be glad to hear more of your views on
                            the subject of that agitation, and its relation to the broader questions
                            we somehow drifted into discussing.
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        That must be for another day. In the 
                                mean?
                                meanwhile
                             while, beware of regarding it
                            as anything but what it is—a symptom of a great moral revolution. It is
                            not a spasmodic, isolated phenomenon; it is a precursor of a chance
                            already stirring in the secret heart of multitudes. The smuggling of
                            those amazing and iniquitous Acts into our Statute?books (in other
                            countries, as you may not know, they exist only in the form of police
                            regulations) was but the spark falling on the tinder, the last drop in
                            the over?full cup. Like the great kindred movement for the abolition of
                            slavery, this movement is the product of the world's growth in the
                            humaner virtues, of the late blossoming of loving?kindness, mercy and
                            equity. We may call in question, if we choose, its mode of operation,
                            the details of its programme, the feasibility, nay the sanity of its
                            immediate aims; about the principles which gave it birth
                            are their own justification, and carry within them the germs of future,
                            absolute triumph.
                    
                    
                        CECIL.
                        You are not too sanguine?
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        Who said that history was prophecy? Even a superficial study of history
                            makes one something of a sooth?sayer. There was a time when the
                            conscience of the world was ripe for a protest against the traffic in
                            human flesh. The world knew it not. Slavery always had
                            been, and, so it was said, always would be; but those who could
                            read the signs of the times knew that it was doomed, and that had the
                            nations been polled, and the result been a minority of one against the
                            fated institution, still that the world would come round to that
                                minority of one. Emerson spake truly. And so it is now. The
                            world is ripe, not for perfection, not for Paradise, not for Utopia, but
                            for the abolition of vice legalized, vice patented, vice tolerated in
                            society with a toleration strangely like acquiescence, if not approval.
                            That portent that struck you just know with horror and amazement—the
                            descent of pure women into the arena—is perhaps the most momentous of
                            them all. Well may it amaze, even appal you! It is a measure of the
                            significance of the  combat. This
                            protest of women against the systematized degradation of their sex,
                            against the desecration of marriage, against the undermining of the
                            family, is a profounder thing than you know. It is unperceived,
                            nine?tenths of it; it is as yet immature; but it is growing fast; its
                            roots are striking deep into the soil of the civilized world, and it
                            will not fail to bear fruit upward.
                        There was a picture of Long's in the Academy two or three years back—you
                            were in the Bush—which held me spell?bound. It represented Esther, the
                            Queen, seated in royal apparel. She is about to carry out her grand
                            resolve. It is a question of life or death. In her fixed pathetic eyes
                            you read, “If I perish, I perish.” You cannot take away your own from
                            them. The details, the technique of the picture are lost in
                            that absorbed, absorbing gaze; tranquil, heroic, pitiful. I think of
                            Esther now as symbolic of the woman of the nineteenth century,
                            sacrificing life itself in the cause, not merely of her people, not even
                            of her sex, but of humanity.
                        Oftener I compare her to Godiva, staking something dearer than life in
                            the high emprise, stripping herself bare of the very vesture of her
                            soul, rather than see the poor of her people become a prey, the rich
                            given over to selfish indulgence and shortsighted cruelty. It is no
                            hyperbolical phrase that I use when I say, “dearer than life.” 
                                “‘You would not let your little finger ache
                                For such as these?’ ‘But I would die,’ she said.”
                             —the Godiva of old. And she would have died, probably
                            would have preferred death to the grisly alternative which she accepted
                            for the people's sake.
                        From the new Godiva, to, a harder thing than the mere laying down of
                            one's life has been required. From her, too, it has been exacted to
                            place upon the altar her reputation, exposing herself to
                            something worse than mere physical torture, to a species of
                            misconception more exquisitely agonizing than the most ingenious
                            refinement of bodily suffering. For her
                            the delight of living is gone,, the invigorating charm of social
                            pleasures, the early, innocent gladness of the world. Friendship, the
                            consoler, is often spoiled for her; sometimes she is cut off from
                            love—the breath of life. Over all her pathway a shadow lies, and when
                            her eyes are brightest, and her talk gayest, the heaviness of this thing
                            is at her heart.
                        Oh, the leaven has been working for years! Thinking women of the last
                            generation saw well enough that the existing social code was rotten, a
                            pitiable convention, one half prudery, the other half laxity— 
                                “Whose pureness rooted in impureness stood,
                             to adapt a line of the Laureate.
                        They saw even then that something less hollow, less negative, less
                            hypocritial, was required. They craved even then a more passionate
                            goodness, a more militant purity; and in their lives and writings they
                            presaged dimly the bursting forth of the flame that was smouldering in
                            their day. The works of Elizabeth Barrett Browning are charged with this
                            sense of crying need and of coming change. It was strong in Harriet
                            Martineau and in Mary Carpenter. Earlier still, it kindled the “genius
                            of benevolence” in Elizabeth Fry, and drew her, tender and tremulous and
                            self?distrustful as she was, with irresistible force to the filth and
                            infamy of the female side of Newgate. Were that grand spirit among us
                            now, with what holy joy would she have united in the crusade initiated
                            by her spiritual daughter, Josephine Butler, supported in different ways
                            and at different points of the field of battle by women like Fanny
                            Vicars and Ellice Hopkins, Frances Power Cobbe, Elizabeth Blackwell, and
                            Emily Venturi, and sanctioned by a name dear to every English heart, the
                            honoured name of Florence Nightingale!
                    
                    
                        CECIL.
                        And the name of my sister?in?law—the sweet child I remember—is to be
                            added to the bede?roll. I still cannot find it in my heart to bear that
                                she should suffer so.
                    
                    
                    
                        VICTOR.
                        Mary and I sometimes agree that heroism a
                                deux is not so very heroic after all, and that martyrdom
                            together would be quite possible to bear. But since when have reformers
                            trodden a primrose path. Since when have they not been despised and
                            rejected of men—men and women of sorrows and acquainted with grief—from
                            whom the world they shed their blood for hides, as it were, its face?
                            And then, there is solace in high endeavour, and the very balm of Gilead
                            in a great conviction. This new conception of one moral law for man and
                            woman, this late?won truth that prudery is not purity, and that laxity
                            is merely baseness, that, if there be any virtue or any praise, the
                            “sacred human principle of sex” is to be recognized from the first with
                            a reverent candour, and trained from the first with religious awe, and
                            that only sin is shameful—this, too, has its consolations, its brighter
                            aspects, its glimpses of solemn energizing rapture.
                        And the rest Time rectifies. The day is not far distant when we shall
                            look back with a certain ashamed incredulity at our past selves—we who
                            have mocked, or opposed, or stood aloof—and admit that while we loathed
                            to see the people over?taxed, while we shuddered and blundered,
                            multiplied churches, subscribed to charities, tinkered at our Poor Law
                            and fought over our School Boards, some women had had the inconceivable
                            courage and devotion to grapple personally with the most deadly,
                            difficult and distasteful of all the causes at the bottom of the
                            pauperism, crime, and threatened national disintegration with which we
                            were contending, and that the New Godiva— 
                                “Did more, and underwent and overcame.”
                            
                    
                        
                
            
            
            
                
                    
                    A LETTER TO THE INTERNATIONAL CONVENTION OF WOMEN AT WASHINGTON FROM
                        JOSEPHINE E. BUTLER.
                    MARCH 1888
                    
                    A LETTER TO THE INTERNATIONAL CONVENTION OF WOMEN AT WASHINGTON FROM
                        JOSEPHINE E. BUTLER.
                    
                        
                            March, 1888.
                        
                    
                    DEAR LADIES,
                    Being prevented by domestic circumstances from attending your assemblies
                        personally, I am glad to entrust a few words of greeting to my dear and
                        honored friend, Mrs. STEWARD, who has consented to cross the Atlantic, at my
                        earnest request, as a delegate from our Ladies' National Association. That
                        Association was formed in the winter of 1869, having for its definite aim
                        the obtaining of the repeal of the Acts of Parliament of 1866?69 for the
                        State regulation of vice; or, in other words, for the provisioning of the
                        army and navy (not in Great Britain alone, but in our Indian Empire and all
                        our colonies) with selected and superintended and healthy women. “A celibate
                        soldiery,” it was said by our heathen legislators of that day, “require such
                        a provision as urgently and as regularly as they required daily
                        rations.”
                    Now, I have no reason to suppose that this special subject (always a mournful
                        and repellant one) will be formally brought forward in your Convention;
                        although the kindred and closely?allied subject of personal and social
                        purity will surely be so. It would, however, be impossible for me either to
                        appear at or write to your Convention  with
                        the aim of furnishing a contribution to your deliberations, except in
                        connection with my own life work, and the deep convictions which instigated
                        that life?work—and which have become even more and more profound as I
                        continued in it.
                    The Committee of our Ladies' National Association therefore strongly desired
                        that a delegate should be selected from our midst, who had been associated
                        in that work from an early period; and such an one is Mrs. Steward, who has
                        been an indefatigable worker, not only in England, but in Belgium, in
                        pursuit of and for the saving of the English?girl victims who were bought,
                        stolen and destroyed under this diabolical system of State?protected vice in
                        that country. There is now a crowd of younger workers who are bravely
                        preaching the purity crusade and doing excellent vigilance work; while there
                        are few of the veterans left who inaugurated in 1869 the fierce contest with
                        our Government, the Houses of Lords and Commons, the Medical Boards, the
                        Press, and the Upper Classes generally, in order to gain the abolition of
                        the vice?protecting laws—and to assert the equality of the Moral Law for two
                        sexes, as well as the dignity and sacredness of Womanhood. Among those
                        veteran workers were included the names of Florence Nightingale, Harriet
                        Martineau, Mary Somerville, Mary Carpenter and others. Some are gone to
                        their rest; others are aged and worn, and waiting for their call home. Those
                        who remain hold together and work together still, bound to each other by
                        strong affection, and by the memory of past suffering and conflict shared
                        together. Of this group Mrs. Steward is one, and I commend her to your
                        sisterly kindness and hospitality.
                    It may not be out of place here, in order to set forth the motives which
                        drove us to devote ourselves to this Crusade before all others, to quote
                        some words of mine which were drawn from me at a great meeting in Leeds, in
                        July, 1870. Some of us had been long working for the “Higher Education of
                             Women.” A council for that end had
                        been formed, embracing members from all the northern parts of England. I was
                        for three years the President of that Council; but in 1870, feeling impelled
                        to resign the presidentship, I thought it right to give my reasons for doing
                        so. I venture to quote from a Report of that meeting.
                    “There were gentlemen present who would give some account of the educational
                        movement now going on in our country in its different branches. She proposed
                        to give a short sketch of the educational efforts now being made on the
                        Continent, under the auspices of the International Association of Women.
                        They had arrived at a period of the world's history when the injunction,
                        ‘Look not every one to his own things, but to the things of others,’ had
                        become applicable to nations as well as to individuals. In fact, England
                        could not safely live any longer for itself only, nor could any country; and
                        she thought there was an exclusiveness peculiar to our insular character as
                        a nation, which required correction before we could hope to give and receive
                        all the benefit we might, and to get rid of war and other disturbances of
                        progress and happiness. The objects of this International Association were
                        the amelioration of the social position of women, and their moral and
                        intellectual elevation, through education; and the granting of the various
                        rights which they claimed.
                    “Mrs. Butler detailed the practical steps which have been taken in the
                        direction of this education, both at home and in Switzerland, Italy,
                        Germany, Russia, France, and Constantinople; and in proceeding to consider
                        the relation of this educational movement to a more general and a very great
                        social movement, including innumerable interests—a movement which she
                        trusted would result sooner or later in a purer and juster state of
                        society—she said: ‘I proposed at our meeting yesterday to resign the office
                        of President of this Council as soon as may be convenient to this Council to
                        allow me to do so. It is not because I am not  deeply interested in the cause which this Council
                        represents. I may say I am more deeply interested than ever, for I see in
                        the education of women one of the most necessary means of freeing poorer
                        women from the awful slavery of which I have seen so much lately; nor do I
                        undervalue the higher culture of the individual as a means towards the
                        attainment of the highest personal happiness.
                    The strangely providential guidance of all our schemes has lately been deeply
                        impressed on my mind. We started our educational schemes, I believe, in an
                        honest and humble spirit, and they appeared to us the readiest path towards
                        aiding our fellow?women, the distressed, the needy, and the wronged; and I
                        believe our labour has not been in vain. But in this, as in all our work on
                        earth, we need further enlightening and teaching. Looking back on my own
                        experience of the past year, it appears to me as if God in His goodness had
                        said to me, “I approve your motive and your work: but you are trying to lay
                        on the topmost stones while there is an earthquake shaking your foundations.
                        You must first descend to the lowest depths before you can safely build up;”
                        and then He showed us a plague spot—He showed us a deadly poison working
                        through the wholesale, systematic, and now legalized, degradation of women
                        to the service of vice. He showed us the ready elements for a speedy
                        destruction of society, which the highest education itself would not be able
                        to stem. Not that our work in the cause of education has in any sense been a
                        failure, far from it; but we need a still larger infusion into these noble
                        schemes for educating the masses, of the spirit of self?sacrifice, even of
                        martyrdom; we need to have our hearts more deeply penetrated with pity, and
                        to be more resolutely bent on making all our practical efforts tend to the
                        revival of justice and of a pure and equal moral standard and equal
                        laws.
                    “While, therefore, I continue to regard the cause of Education as a most
                        sacred cause, I come to the present 
                        meeting with a saddened heart; and I only propose to relinquish the office I
                        now hold, because I feel that God has called me to a more painful one. All
                        members have not the same office; all are not called to descend to the
                        depths of woe to clear out moral sewers, and to cast in their lot among
                        wretched slave gangs, in order to help the slaves to carry the weight of
                        their chains, if not to break them away. This work, I think, is mine, but
                        there is other work not less holy, and which aims not less directly at a
                        future emancipation; so while I feel all the deeper gratitude to you, my
                        fellow?workers in this Council, for the work you are doing in the cause of
                        humanity, I am obliged to confess to you that, for my own part, I fear I may
                        not in future be able to give the needful time to this work which it
                        demands. I wish to leave it in abler and freer hands. It has my deepest
                        sympathy. It points to one of the most important of all the means by which
                        we hope to undo the heavy burdens and let the oppressed go free and
                        inaugurate a purer and sounder National Life. To keep pace, however, with
                        this portion of the great work, one requires to have the head and heart
                        free, and that cannot be the case with one who is called to deal with the
                        most miserable, to walk side by side, hand in hand, with the outcast, the
                        victim of our social sins, whose names one scarcely dares to name in refined
                        society. I am full of hope for the education cause, and for the anti?slavery
                        cause, in which we are engaged. Nevertheless my very soul grows faint before
                        the facts of 1870, and though that faintness of soul may complete one's
                        fitness to be a fellow?sufferer with the slave, it does not increase one's
                        capacity for a work which requires intellectual energy.’”
                    It is impossible, and would not be right, that I should trouble you with a
                        report of the arduous work which our Women's Abolitionist Society
                        accomplished between 1869 and 1874. Suffice it to say, that we shook the
                        Government and aroused the whole nation; mountains were removed by the
                        energy imparted by a gigantic faith. In 1874 a “new departure” was inaugurated. The battle was
                        carried across the channel to France—where, under the first Napoleon, this
                        abominable and impure tyranny had first been instituted in the end of the
                        eighteenth century—to Italy, to Switzerland, to Germany and to the
                        Netherlands. It afterwards spread to Spain, Holland, Denmark, Austria,
                        Hungary; and Sweden and Norway. We now have friends in Russia; but no
                        association is yet found there. The first year's work was reported by our
                        financial secretary, Prof. Stuart, as follows:
                    “It was indeed a wise intuition which led the women of England to carry into
                        its original strongholds the campaign against the system of regulated vice,
                        against whose encroachments we are contending in this country. That move
                        will benefit the agitation for Repeal in this country not only by the vast
                        strengthening and encouragement which the knowledge of the sympathy and
                        co?operation of persons of all tongues and countries has brought to so many
                        of our workers here, but also because it has opened up an attack upon the
                        whole vicious system in its rear, and, drying up the sources and roots, so
                        to speak, will cause the system to fall more easily in this country; and not
                        least because it has called forth in many countries the co?operation of new
                        Workers who may, confident of success and with united force and power, carry
                        on the work against profligacy itself throughout a Christendom united for
                        that end.
                    “Not only have we seen, during the year of work just concluded, Refuges for
                        the fallen established throughout many cities of Europe, and men and women
                        of many languages joining together to call for and work for the abolition of
                        regulated prostitution, and to aim through that at the abolition finally of
                        prostitution itself; but we have seen whole cities shaken as it were with
                        the wind of a new revival, recognizing the crime that they have committed
                        before God in regulating and licensing the destruction of His image; we have
                        seen through the length and breadth  of
                        nations societies formed, actively working in a cause which had before laid
                        dormant; and we have seen the whole great nation of Italy, called as it were
                        by the voice of God through his poor and weak servants, recognizing that
                        virtue and purity alone can be the basis of future greatness.”
                    In a brief time we had won the public adhesion to our cause of many of the
                        most distinguished persons on the Continent, among whom we counted Joseph
                        Mazzini and Garibaldi, in Italy; Jules Favre, Jules Simon, and Victor Hugo,
                        in France; the Count Agenor de Gasparin and the Countess de Gasparin, of
                        Geneva; Baron de Bunsen and Count Ungern Sternberg, in Germany; M. Emile de
                        Laveleye, the well known writer and economist of Belgium. But it is not so
                        much to the adhesion of the great men that we hold, as to the active
                        concurrence of the thousands of women on the Continent of Europe, who have
                        been awakened on this question, and who have formed numerous and
                        ever?increasing Associations for working out our aims, more especially in
                        Switzerland, Holland, France, and the Scandinavian Peninsula.
                    Our Continental Secretary, Mr. Humbert, writing on this subject after
                        fourteen years' experience, says: “Happy are those nations in which women
                        themselves have taken the initiative in this great movement, for in such
                        cases the movement will never die; whereas in countries where the work is
                        left entirely to men, although some reforms may be achieved, the movement is
                        fitful and never possesses the same life.”
                    This brings to me the most recent expansion of our work in the Colonies and
                        in India. It is in allusion to this new expansion that Mr. Humbert writes
                        the letter just quoted. He continues, “How are we to proceed successfully
                        for the emancipation of women from the hateful thraldom imposed on them by
                        the civilization of conquering races, the thraldom of compulsory and
                        state?regulated prostitution among Buddhists, Brahmins, Mahometans, or  Pagans, where the fate of women, in this
                        world, at least, depends absolutely on the will of man, their master? This
                        is a difficult question to answer. We see occasionally a spark kindled
                        amongst those nations; but the light is short lived, and it continually
                        requires to be rekindled.” In spite of these difficulties, however, we are
                        pushing forward our work in Egypt and in the French Colonies of North
                        Africa, as well as in other directions.
                    We believe that the question is coming rapidly to the front in India. The
                        present mission of Mr. Dyer to India is producing an awakening there that
                        will be productive of very decided results from a Parliamentary and
                        Governmental point of view. We, as women, are more especially concerned with
                        the awakening of the women of India on the subject of this
                        imperially?imposed degradation of their race, and to kindred questions
                        vitally concerning womanhood. On this side we are full of hope. It is
                        affecting to see the petitions which are now in the hands of some of our
                        Members of Parliament this session. These petitions are from Anglo?Indian
                        and native women—and many are signed in Hindoo characters. The prayer of the
                        petition is for relief from this degrading law. We receive also privately
                        very touching appeals from Indian ladies, and to these our Association
                        responds with eager sympathy. The following quotation from one of the
                        replies, sent from the Leeds branch of our Abolition Society, will show you
                        the spirit with which the women of the world are communicating with each
                        other on this subject:—
                    “Do let us assure you, dear Indian friends, that we have found that so long
                        as our motives are pure, no evil knowledge can hurt us. We have seen, on the
                        contrary, that work of this kind undertaken in the spirit of consecration
                        (and in no other spirit can anyone endure to continue the work), may lead to
                        a higher and purer knowledge of life and the human heart. That many have
                        found (as all must do sooner or later) that intellectual force alone cannot
                             guard against the horror of this evil;
                        and have thus been driven to seek more spiritual means of warfare, and so
                        have passed into a higher life.
                    “Do be sure, dear friends, that whatever your enemies may say of you, in the
                        invisible kingdom of righteousness, you can but be purified by this labour
                        of love.
                    “And when you most greatly doubt success, when the power and wiles of the
                        enemy seem indeed to be too powerful for the feebleness of your hands, we
                        feel sure you will find, as we have found, that from quarters least
                        expected, from the darkest parts of your sky, from the weakest parts of your
                        army, help and light and strength will come to you. Our victories do not
                        often come to us in the manner or at the time that we expect, any more than
                        do our defeats.
                    “We cannot direct the whole order of the conduct of life; we can only fight
                        in our own place, obeying the nearest word that reaches us, knowing that no
                        army can be beaten of which each individual soldier refuses to accept
                        defeat.”
                    Thus the women of the world are reaching out their hands to each other, and
                        banding themselves together so that when councils, rulers, and lords of
                        science endeavour by decrees or by social tyranny to give a continuance to
                        the most degrading institution which has defiled the history of the human
                        race, they will have the power to say, “You shall not slay us or our
                        sisters.” They have struck a note for which the ages have been waiting, and
                        which even the Church itself in its organized ecclesiastical forms has never
                        yet intoned.
                    There is a point on which I have sometimes thought (possibly without reason)
                        that American women feel less strongly than we do: I allude to the physical
                        treatment forcibly imposed, the personal outrage on women, which lies at the
                        root of the practical working of the whole system of the state regulation of
                        vice. You have happily not had in America the practical experience which we
                        in the old world have had of the degrading effects of this outrage. It is
                        the  final and most complete expression of
                        the foul idea of woman as a chattel, a slave, an instrument, a mere vessel,
                        officially dedicated to the vilest uses.
                    At our last International Congress, held at Lausanne, in September, 1887,
                        some of our less?instructed followers had been occupying too much of our
                        time in an attempt to defend, up to a certain point, the State's action in
                        tyrannizing over women. Thinking that the moment had come for a decided word
                        on the part of women themselves, I gave utterance to the thoughts which were
                        in my mind; and in doing so I proclaimed in the name of all women, that
                        whatever subtlety of argument might weigh with certain doctors, legislators,
                        etc., this was nothing to us, and we women solemnly declared again the
                        principle of our own dignity, and our determination never to sanction the
                        enslavement of any woman by the outrage perpetrated under this
                        system. At the close of my few words Mdme. de Morsier, of Paris, rose, and
                        with uplifted hand asked earnestly that every woman present who agreed with,
                        and re?echoed from the depths of her heart the words of Mrs. Butler, should
                        stand up. The large hall was crowded with women as well as men. The men
                        continued sitting, but every woman rose, and with right hand uplifted high,
                        followed the action of Mdme. de Morsier and Mdme. de Gingins, responding to
                        the solemn words uttered by her—“In the name of God, Amen!” There was a
                        significant silence of a few moments. Some of the gentlemen were surprised;
                        most were deeply moved; and to every woman present, I feel convinced, it was
                        a ratification of our principles never to be forgotten. The sound of it went
                        far abroad beyond the mere hall of meeting itself.
                    I mention this incident merely as an illustration of the spirit of our women
                        in their jealous guardianship of the sacredness of womenhood, even in the
                        persons of the most degraded of their sisters. I myself believe this spirit
                        to be thoroughly in accord with that of our Master, Christ.
                    
                    As an inevitable and necessary accompaniment of the establishment of licensed
                        houses of ill?fame under Government patronage, all over the world there
                        exists, as you well know, the most extensive slave traffic in the interests
                        of vice. This fact has become so fully acknowledged during the last few
                        years as to have given rise to that admirable and much?needed Society—the
                        “International Association of Friends of Girls,”—originating in Switzerland
                        and now spreading all over and far beyond Europe. That Society has been
                        greatly strengthened in England since the Congress held in London in 1886;
                        and this fact is brought home to us by the reassuring sight at various
                        railway stations and landing places of the warnings and friendly placards,
                        so diligently distributed and put up by the English branch of the Society,
                        informing all girls and women of where they may find friends, and of what
                        dangers they must beware.
                    Our Federation has collected carefully many facts and statistics concerning
                        this world?wide slave traffic. People in Europe speak with indignation of
                        the traffic in negroes. It would be just as well if they would open their
                        eyes to what is going on much nearer—throughout the whole of
                        Europe—especially in Germany and Austria, where the exportation of white
                        slaves is carried on on a large scale. A terrible picture is presented to us
                        of the enforced movement to and fro upon the face of the earth of these
                        youthful victims of human cruelty. “Numbers are embarked at Hamburgh, whose
                        destination is South America, Bahia, and Rio de Janeiro. The greater number
                        are probably engaged for Monte Video and Buenos Ayres; others are sent by
                        the Straits of Magellan to Valparaiso. Other cargoes are sent to North
                        America, some being forwarded to England others direct. The competition
                        which the traders meet with when they land sometimes constrains them to go
                        further ahead; they are found, therefore, descending the Mississippi with
                        their cargoes to New Orleans and Texas. Others are taken on to California.
                        In the market of California they  are
                        sorted and thence taken to provision the different localities on the coast
                        as far as Panama. Others are sent from the New Orleans market to Cuba, the
                        Antilles, and Mexico. Others are taken from Bohemia, Germany, and
                        Switzerland, across the Alps to Italy, and thence further south to
                        Alexandria and Suez, and eastward to Bombay, Calcutta, Singapore, Hong Kong,
                        and Shanghai. The Russian official houses of vice draw their slaves in a
                        great measure from Eastern Prussia, Pomerania, and Poland. The most
                        important Russian station is Riga; it is there that the traders of St.
                        Petersburg and Moscow sort and get ready their cargoes for Nijni?Novgorod,
                        and from this latter place cargoes are sent on to the more distant towns of
                        Siberia. At Tschita, a young German was found who had been sold and resold
                        in this manner.”
                    You in America are happily free from the state regulation of vice; but,
                        undoubtedly there is an extensive traffic in white slaves in your midst, and
                        a constant importation of poor foreigners to your shores, who are destined
                        to moral and spiritual destruction. I trust you will, from your Congress,
                        put out strong hands for the abolition of this traffic.
                    It may be that I am writing to some who have been accustomed to think of the
                        poor outcasts of society as beings different from others—in some way tainted
                        from their birth, creatures apart without the tenderness and capacities for
                        good possessed by your own cherished daughters.
                    You may have imagined them to be for the most part reckless and willful
                        sinners; or, if in the first instance betrayed or forced into sin, now at
                        least so utterly destroyed and corrupted as to have become something
                        unmentionable in polite society. Now, all who have had a practical
                        acquaintance with the lives of poor and tempted women, know how mistaken is
                        such a judgment, how cruelly false in most cases. But granting for the
                        moment that women who have fallen from virtue have become so
                        degraded as to be repulsive or
                        uninteresting to you, what have you to say concerning outraged children?—And
                        thousands of these are but children in age and in knowledge.
                    Who will dare to say that any child is determinedly, willfully wicked and
                        degraded; that any child in the world is further from God's kingdom than we
                        grown?up people are, however virtuous we may be? Nay, but “of
                            such is the Kingdom of Heaven.” One who never errs has said it.
                        We are not told that He selected an exceptionally pure and holy child when
                        He set a little child in the midst of the multitude, and said that, Except
                        we become as such a little child, we shall in no wise enter the Kingdom of
                        Heaven. Verily, “their angels do always behold the face of my Father, which
                        is in Heaven,” and woe be to that man, to that nation, to those mothers of
                        men and of nations, who, seeing that little child fallen among thieves,
                        robbed, wounded, murdered, dying, shall calmly pass by on the other side! A
                        day is coming in which it will not avail any of us to say, we knew it not;
                        for now we know it. The means of knowing it, and the means of helping to
                        redress this wrong are within our reach, at our very hand. I cherish the
                        hope and the belief that the time is at hand when all women who are indeed
                        mothers, and worthy of the name, will give up the chilling reserve, which
                        seems too much like acquiescence in evil, and will come forward to the
                        rescue, not only for the sake of the innocent and betrayed, but for the sake
                        of their sons, and of our nation.
                    This letter is sent forth with earnest prayer that while pardoning the
                        imperfections of my poor appeal, God would make use of it to fan the holy
                        and purifying fire, which I feel sure is already kindled in your hearts.
                        When I kneel in my chamber to plead for the deliverance of these little ones
                        for whom Christ died, I seem to see the childish faces gathering in crowds
                        around me, filling the space on every side—the faces of the slaughtered dead
                        as well as of the living. These victims, voiceless and unable to plead their
                        own  cause, seem to make their ceaseless,
                        mute appeal from their scattered, unknown graves and from out those dark
                        habitations of cruelty, where they are now helplessly imprisoned.
                    But their weeping has been heard in heaven, and judgment is at hand. Of their
                        destroyers it may be said, “They murder the fatherless; yet they say the
                        Lord shall not see it.” Of you, O friends, let it be said, and let the
                        Saviour Himself speak the words, “Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of
                        the least of these, ye have done it to Me.”
                    
                        JOSEPHINE E. BUTLER.
                    
                        
                
            
        
    
