
     ----CITATION----
        Craik, Dinah Maria Mulock (1826-1887). Olive, Volume 1. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 314 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (06-April-1999).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7119
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    OLIVE. 
                    A Novel.
                
                BY THE AUTHOR OF “THE OGILVIES.”
                IN THREE VOLUMES.
                VOL. I.
                
                    LONDON: 
                    CHAPMAN AND HALL
                        193, PICCADILLY(LATE 186, STRAND).
                
                1850.
                
                
                    WHITING, BEAUFORD HOUSE, STRAND.
                
            
            
                
                TO A—. C—.
                THE BEST MOTHER, WIFE, AND FRIEND,— THE TRUEST WOMAN I KNOW,— I
                    DEDICATE THIS STORY OF A WOMAN'S LIFE.
                
                    THE AUTHOR.
                
            
            
                
                By the same Author, in 3 vols. post 8vo. cloth
                THE OGILVIES.
                A Novel.
                
                    
                        
                            “This book is charming. It is written with deep earnestness, and
                                pervaded by a noble and loving philosophy; while in giving form to
                                her conceptions, the writer evinces at once a fine and subtle
                                imagination, and that perception of minute characteristics which
                                gives to fiction the life-like truth of biography. Nor does she want
                                the power to relieve her more serious view by one of genial and
                                well-directed humour.”
                            —Athenæum.
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            “It is a pleasure to speak, as we are bound to speak, of the book
                                before us—viz., in terms of high and cordial praise.”
                            —Weekly News.
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            “A tale of intense passion, powerfully written, evidently by one
                                whose acquaintance with the mysteries of the human heart, with its
                                infirmities and its inconsistencies, is long and deep.”
                            —John Bull.
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            “A clever novel... No class of reader will be disappointed.”
                            —Literary Gazette.
                        
                    
                
            
        
        
            
            OLIVE.
            
                CHAPTER I.
                “PUIR wee lassie, ye hae a waesome welcome to a waesome
                    warld!”
                Such was the first greeting ever received by my heroine, Olive Rothesay. However,
                    she would be then entitled neither a heroine, nor even “Olive Rothesay,” being a
                    small nameless concretion of humanity, in colour and consistency strongly
                    resembling the “red earth,” whence was taken the father of all nations. No
                    foreshadowing of the coming life brightened her purple, pinched-up, withered
                    face, which, as in all new-born children, bore such a ridiculous likeness to extreme old age. No tone of the all-expressive
                    human voice thrilled through the unconscious wail that was her first utterance,
                    and in her wide-open meaningless eyes had never dawned the beautiful human soul.
                    There she lay, as you and I, reader, with all our compeers, lay once—a helpless
                    lump of breathing flesh, faintly stirred by animal life, and scarce at all by
                    that inner life which we call spirit. And, if we, every one, were thus to look
                    back, half in compassion, half in humiliation, at our infantile likeness—may it
                    not be that in the world to come some who in this world bore an outward image,
                    poor, mean, and degraded, will cast a glance of equal pity on their
                    well-remembered olden selves, now transfigured into beautiful immortality.
                I seem to be wandering from my Olive Rothesay; but the time to come will show the
                    contrary.
                Poor little spirit! newly come to earth, who knows whether that “waesome welcome”
                    may not be a prophecy? The old nurse seemed
                    almost to dread this, even while she uttered it, for with the superstition from
                    which not an “auld wife” in Scotland is altogether free, she changed the
                    dolorous croon into a “God guide us!” and, pressing the babe to her aged breast,
                    bestowed a hearty blessing on her nursling of the second generation—the child of
                    him who was at once her master and her foster-son.
                “An' wae's the day that he's sae far awa', and canna do't himsel, my bonnie
                    bairn! It's ill coming into the warld without a father's blessing.”
                Perhaps the good soul's clasp was the tenderer, and her warm heart throbbed the
                    warmer to the new-born child, for a passing remembrance of her own two
                    fatherless babes, who now slept—as close together, as when, “twin-laddies,” they
                    had nestled in one mother's bosom—slept beneath the wide Atlantic which marks
                    the sea-boy's grave.
                Nevertheless, the memory was now grown so dim with years, that it vanished the
                    moment the infant waked and began to cry.
                    Rocking to and fro, the nurse tuned her cracked voice to a long-forgotten
                    lullaby—something about a “boatie.” It was stopped by a hand on her shoulder,
                    followed by the approximation of a face which, in its bland gravity, bore “M.D.”
                    on every line.
                “Well! my good—excuse me, but I forget your name.”
                “Elspeth, or mair commonly, Elspie Moray. A very gude name, doctor. The Murrays
                    o' Perth were—”
                “No doubt—no doubt, Mrs. Elsappy.”
                “Elspie, sir. Ye maunna ca' me out o' my name, wi' your unceevil
                    English tongue,” added the pertinacious old dame.
                “Well, then, Elspie, or what the deuce you like,” said the doctor, vexed out of
                    his proprieties. But his rosy face became rosier when he met the horrified and
                    sternly reproachful stare of Elspie's keen blue eyes as she turned round—a whole
                    volume of sermons expressed in her, “Eh, sir?” Then she added, quietly,
                “I'll thank ye no to speak ony mair sic words in
                    the ears o' this puir innocent new-born lassie. It's no canny.”
                “Humph!—I suppose I must beg pardon again. I shall never get out what I wanted to
                    say—which is, that you must be quiet, my good dame, and you must keep Mrs.
                    Rothesay quiet. She is a delicate young creature, you know, and must have every
                    possible comfort that she needs.”
                The doctor glanced round the room, as though there was scarce enough comfort for
                    his notions of worldly necessity. Yet though not luxurious, the antechamber and
                    the room half-revealed beyond it seemed to furnish all that could be needed by
                    an individual of moderate fortune and desires. And an eye more romantic and
                    poetic than that of the worthy medico might have found ample atonement for the
                    want of rich furniture within, in the magnificent view without. The windows
                    looked down on a lovely champaign, through which the many-winding Forth span its
                    silver network, until, vanishing in the distance, a white sparkle here and there only showed whither the river wandered. In
                    the distance, the blue mountains rose like dim clouds, marking the horizon. The
                    foreground of this landscape was formed by the hill, castle-crowned—than which
                    there is none in the world more beautiful or more renowned.
                In short, Olive Rothesay shared with many a king and hero the honour of her place
                    of nativity. She was born at Stirling.
                Perhaps this circumstance of birth has more influence over character than many
                    matter-of-fact people would imagine. It is pleasant, in after-life, to think
                    that we first opened our eyes in a spot famous in the world's story, or
                    remarkable for natural beauty. It is sweet to say, “Those are my
                    mountains,” or “This is my fair valley;” and there is a delight
                    almost like that of a child who glories in his noble or beautiful parents, in
                    the grand historical pride which links us to the place where we were born. So
                    this little morsel of humanity, yet unnamed, whom by an allowable prescience we
                    have called Olive, may perhaps be somewhat
                    influenced in her nature by the fact that her cradle was rocked under the shadow
                    of the hill of Stirling, and that the first breezes which fanned her baby brow
                    came from the Highland mountains.
                But the excellent presiding genius at this interesting advent “cared for none of
                    these things.” Dr. Jacob Johnson stood at the window with his hands in his
                    pockets—to him the wide beautiful world was merely a field for the exercise of
                    the medical profession—a place where old women died, and children were born. He
                    watched the shadows darkening over Ben Ledi—calculating how much longer he ought
                    in propriety to stay with his present patient, and whether he should have time
                    to run home and take a cosy dinner and a bottle of port before he was again
                    required.
                “Our sweet young patient is taking a nice sleep, I think, nurse,” said he, at
                    last, in his most benevolent tones.
                “Ye may say that, doctor—ye ought to ken.”
                
                “I might almost venture to leave her, except that she seems so lonely, without
                    friends or attendance, save yourself.”
                “And wha's the best nurse for Captain Angus Rothesay's wife and bairn, but the
                    woman that nursed himsel?” said Elspie, lifting up her tall gaunt frame, and for
                    the second time frowning the little doctor into confused silence. “An' as for
                    friends, ye suld just be unco' glad o' the chance that garr'd the leddy bide
                    here, and no amang her ain folk. Else there wadna hae been sic a dowie welcome
                    for her bonnie bairn. Maybe a waur, though, God forgie me;” added the woman to
                    herself, with a sigh, as she once more half buried her little nursling in her
                    capacious embrace.
                “I have not the slightest doubt of Captain Rothesay's respectability,” answered
                    Dr. Johnson. Respectability! applied to the scions of a family
                    which had had the honour of being nearly extirpated at Flodden-field, and again
                    at Pinkie. Had the trusty follower of the
                    Rothesays heard the term, she certainly would have been inclined to annihilate
                    the presumptuous Englishman. But she was fortunately engaged in stilling the
                    cries of the poor infant, who, in return for the pains she took in undressing
                    it, began to give full evidence that the weakness of its lungs was not at all
                    proportionate to the smallness of its size.
                “Crying will do it good. A fine child—a very fine child,” observed the doctor, as
                    he made ready for his departure, while the nurse proceeded in her task, and the
                    heap of white drapery was gradually removed, until from beneath it appeared the
                    semblance of a very—very tiny specimen of babyhood.
                “Ye needna trouble yoursel to say what's no true,” was the answer; “it's just a
                    bit bairnie—unco' sma'. An' that's nae wonder, considering the puir mither's
                    trouble.”
                “And the father is gone abroad?”
                “Just twa months sin' syne. But eh doctor, look ye here,” suddenly cried Elspie,
                    as with her great, brown, but tender hand she
                    was rubbing down the delicate little spine of the now quieted babe.
                “Well—what's the matter now?” said Dr. Johnson, rather sulkily, as he laid down
                    his hat and gloves. “The child is quite perfect, rather small perhaps, but as
                    nice a little girl as ever was seen. It's all right.”
                “It's no a' richt,” cried the nurse, in a tone trembling between anger and
                    apprehension. “Doctor, see!”
                She pointed with her finger to a slight curve at the upper part of the spine,
                    between the shoulder and neck. The doctor's professional anxiety was aroused—he
                    came near and examined the little creature, with a countenance that grew graver
                    each instant.
                “Aweel?” said Elspie, inquiringly.
                “I wish I had noticed this before; but it would have been of no use,” he
                    answered, his bland tones made earnest by real feeling.
                “Eh, what?” said the nurse.
                “I am sorry to say that the child is deformed—born so—and will
                    remain so for life.”
                
                At this terrible sentence Elspie sank back in her chair, overpowered with blank
                    dismay. Then she started up, clasping the child convulsively, and faced the
                    doctor.
                “Ye lee, ye ugly creepin, Englisher! How daur ye speak so of ane o' the
                    Rothesays,—frae whase blude cam the tallest men an' the bonniest leddies—ne'er a
                    lamiter amang them a'. How daur ye say that my master's bairn will be a —. Wae's
                    me! I canna speak the word.”
                “Poor woman!” mildly said the doctor, “I am really concerned!” He looked so, and
                    considerably frightened besides.
                “Haud your tongue, ye fule!” muttered Elspie. While she again laid the child on
                    her lap, and examined it earnestly for herself. The result confirmed all. She
                    wrung her hands, and rocked to and fro, moaning, aloud.
                “Ochone, the wearie day! O, my dear master, my bairn, that I nursed on my knee!
                    how will ye come back an' see your firstborn, the last o' the Rothesays, a puir
                    bit crippled lassie.”
                
                A faint call from the inner room startled both doctor and nurse.
                “Good Heavens!” exclaimed the former. “We must think of the mother. Stay—I'll go.
                    She does not, and she must not know of this. What a blessing that I told her the
                    child was a fine and perfect child. Poor thing, poor thing!” he added,
                    compassionately, as he hurried to his patient, leaving Elspie hushed into
                    silence, still mournfully gazing on her charge.
                It would have been curious to mark the changes in the nurse's face during that
                    brief interval. At first it wore a look almost of repugnance as she regarded the
                    unconscious child; and then that very unconsciousness seemed to awaken her
                    womanly compassion.
                “Puir hapless bairnie, ye little ken what ye're coming to! Lack o' kinsman's
                    love, and lack o' siller, and lack o' beauty. God forgie me—but why did He send
                    ye into the waefu' warld at a'?”
                It was a question, the nature of which has perplexed theologians, philosophers,
                        and mnetaphysicians, in every age, and will
                    perplex them all to the end of time. No wonder, therefore, that it could not be
                    solved by the poor simple Scotswoman. But as she stood hushing the child to her
                    breast, and looking vacantly out of the window at the far mountains which grew
                    golden in the sunset, she was unconsciously soothed by the scene, and settled
                    the matter in a way which wiser heads might often do with advantage.
                “Aweel! He kens best wha's made the warld and a' that's in't; and maybe He will
                    gie unto this puir wee thing a meek spirit to bear ill luck. Ane must wark,
                    anither suffer. As the minister says, It'll a' come richt at last.”
                Still the babe slept on, the sun sank, and night fell upon the earth. And so the
                    morning and evening made the first day of the new existence, which was about to
                    be developed, through all the various phases which compose that strange and
                    touching mystery—A woman's life.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER II.
                THERE is not a more hackneyed subject for poetic enthusiasm
                    than that sight—perhaps the loveliest in nature—a young mother with her
                    first-born child. And perhaps because it is so lovely, and is ever renewed in
                    its beauty, the world never tires of dwelling thereupon.
                Any poet, painter, or sculptor, would certainly have raved about Mrs. Rothesay,
                    had he seen her in the days of convalescence, sitting at the window with her
                    baby on her knee. She furnished that rare sight—and one that is becoming rarer
                    as the world grows older—an exquisitely beautiful woman. Would there were more
                    of such!—that the ideal of physical beauty
                    might pass into the heart, through the eyes, and bring with it the ideal of the
                    soul's perfection, which our senses can only thus receive. So great is this
                    influence—so unconsciously do we associate the type of spiritual with material
                    beauty, that perhaps the world might have been purer and better if its onward
                    progress in what it calls civilisation had not so nearly destroyed the fair
                    mould of symmetry and loveliness which tradition celebrates.
                It would have done any one's heart good only to look at Sybilla Rothesay. She was
                    a creature to watch from a distance, and then to go away and dream of, scarce
                    thinking whether she were a woman or a spirit. As for describing her, it is
                    almost impossible—but let us try.
                She was very small in stature and proportions—quite a little fairy. Her cheek had
                    the soft peachy hue of girlhood; nay, of very childhood. You would never have
                    thought her a mother. She lay back, half-buried in the great arm-chair; and
                        then, suddenly springing up from amidst the
                    cloud of white muslins and laces that enveloped her, she showed her young,
                    blithe face.
                “I will not have that cap, Elspie; I am not an invalid now, and I don't choose to
                    be an old matron yet,” she said, in a pretty, wilful way, as she threw off the
                    ugly ponderous production of her nurse's active fingers, and exhibited her
                    beautiful head.
                It was, indeed, a beautiful head! exquisite in shape, with masses of light-brown
                    hair folded round it. The little rosy ear peeped out, forming the commencement
                    of that rare and dainty curve of chin and throat, so pleasant to an artist's
                    eye. A beauty to be lingered over among all other beauties. Then the delicately
                    outlined mouth, the lips folded over in a lovely gravity, that seemed ready each
                    moment to melt away into smiles. Her nose—but who would destroy the romance of a
                    beautiful woman by such an allusion? Of course, Mrs. Rothesay had a nose; but it
                    was so entirely in harmony with the rest of her face, that you never thought whether it were Roman, Grecian, or aquiline.
                    Her eyes— 
                        “She has two eyes, so soft and brown—
                        She gives a side-glance and looks down.”
                    
                But was there a soul in this exquisite frame? You never asked—you never cared!
                    You took the thing for granted; and whether it were so or not, you felt that the
                    world, and yourself especially, ought to be thankful for having looked at so
                    lovely an image, if only to prove that earth still possessed such a thing as
                    ideal beauty; and you forgave all the men, in every age, that have run mad for
                    the same. Sometimes, perchance, you would pause a moment, to ask if this magic
                    were real, and remember the calm, holy airs that breathed from the presence of
                    some woman, beautiful only in her soul. But then you never would have looked
                    upon Sybilla Rothesay as a woman at all—only a flesh-and-blood fairy—a Venus de
                    Medici transmuted from the stone.
                Perhaps this was the way in which Captain Angus Rothesay contrived to fall in
                        love with Sybilla Hyde; until he woke from
                    the dream to find his seraph of beauty—a baby-bride, pouting like a vexed child,
                    because, in their sudden elopement, she had neither wedding-bonnet nor Brussels
                    veil!
                And now she was a baby-mother; playing with her infant as, not so very long
                    since, she had played with her doll; twisting its tiny fingers, and making them
                    close tightly round her own, which were quite as elfin-like, comparatively. For
                    Mrs. Rothesay's surpassing beauty included beautiful hands and feet; a blessing
                    which nature—often niggardly in her gifts—does not always extend to pretty
                    women, but bestows it on those who have infinitely more reason to be thankful
                    for the boon.
                “See, nurse Elspie,” said Mrs. Rothesay, laughing in her childish way; “see how
                    fast the little creature holds my finger! Really, I think a baby is a very
                    pretty thing; and it will be so nice to play with until Angus comes home.”
                Elspie turned round from the corner where she
                    sat sewing, and looked with a half-suppressed sigh at her master's wife, whose
                    delicate English beauty, and quick, ringing English voice, formed such a strong
                    contrast to herself, and were so opposed to her own peculiar prejudices. But she
                    had learned to love the young creature, nevertheless; and for the thousandth
                    time she smothered the half-unconscious thought that Captain Angus might have
                    chosen better.
                “Children are a blessing frae the Lord, as maybe ye'll see, ane o' these days,
                    Mrs. Rothesay,” said Elspie, gravely; “ye maun tak' them as they're sent, and
                    mak' the best o' them.”
                Mrs. Rothesay laughed merrily. “Thank you, Elspie, for giving me such a solemn
                    speech, just like one of my husband's. To put me in mind of him, I suppose. As
                    if there were any need for that! Dear Angus! I wonder what he will say to his
                    little daughter when he sees her; the new Miss Rothesay, who has come in
                    opposition to the old Miss Rothesay—ha! ha!”
                
                “The auld Miss Rothesay! Ye speak a wee bit too lightly, seeing she's your
                    husband's aunt,” observed Elspie, feeling it necessary to stand up for the
                    honour of the family. “Miss Flora was a braw, braw leddy ance, as a' the
                    Rothesays aye were.”
                “And this Miss Rothesay will be too, I hope, though she is such a little brown
                    thing now. But people say that the brownest babies grow the fairest in time, eh,
                    nurse?”
                “They do say that,” replied Elspie, with another and a heavier sigh; while she
                    bent closer over her work, and her hard coarse features softened into a look of
                    deepest compassion.
                Mrs. Rothesay went on in her blithe chatter. “I half wished for a boy, as Captain
                    Rothesay thought it would please his uncle; but that's of no consequence. He
                    will be quite satisfied with a girl, and so am I. Of course she will be a
                    beauty, my dear little baby!” And with a deeper shadowing of mother-love
                    piercing through her childish pleasure, she bent over the infant; then took it up, awkwardly and comically
                    enough, as though it were a toy she was afraid of breaking, and rocked it to and
                    fro on her breast.
                Elspie started up. “Tak' care, tak' care! ye'll hurt it, maybe, the puir wee—Oh,
                    what was I gaun to say!” and she stopped hastily, with an expression of anguish
                    which showed how hard was concealment to her honest nature.
                “Don't trouble yourself,” said the young mother, with a charming assumption of
                    matronly dignity; “I shall hold the baby safe. I know all about it.”
                And she really did succeed in lulling the child to sleep; which was no sooner
                    accomplished than she re-commenced her pleasant musical chatter, partly
                    addressed to her nurse, but chiefly the unconscious overflow of a simple nature
                    which could not conceal a single thought.
                “I wonder what I shall call her—the darling! We must not wait until her papa
                    comes home. She can't be ‘baby’ for three
                    years. I shall have to decide on her name myself. Oh, what a pity! I, who never
                    could decide anything. Poor dear Angus! he does all—he had even to fix the
                    wedding-day!” And her musical laugh—another rare charm that she possessed—caused
                    Elspie to look round with mingled pity and affection.
                “Come, nurse; you can help me, I know. I am puzzling my poor head for a name to
                    give this young lady here. It must be a very pretty one. I wonder what Angus
                    would like? A family name, perhaps, after one of those old Rothesays that you
                    and he make so much of.”
                “Oh, Mrs. Rothesay! And are ye no proud o' your husband's family?” said Elspie,
                    reproachfully.
                “Yes, very proud; especially as I have none of my own. He took me—an orphan,
                    without a single tie in the wide world—he took me into his warm loving
                    arms”—here her voice faltered, and a sweet womanly tenderness softened her eyes.
                    “God bless my noble husband! I am
                    proud of him, and of his people, and of all his race. So come,” she added, her
                    childish manner reviving, “tell me of the remarkable women in the Rothesay
                    family for the last five hundred years—you know all about them, Elspie. Surely
                    we'll find one to be a namesake for my baby.”
                Elspie—pleased and important—began eagerly to relate long traditions about the
                    Lady Christina Rothesay, who was a witch, and a great friend of “Maister Michael
                    Scott,” and how, with spells, she caused her seven step-sons to pine away and
                    die; also the Lady Isobel, who let her lover down from her bower-window with the
                    long strings of her golden hair; and how her brother found and slew him;—whence
                    she laid a curse on all the line who had golden hair, and such never prospered,
                    but died unmarried and young.
                “I hope the curse has past away now,” gaily said the young mother, “and that the
                    latest scion will not be a golden-tressed
                    damsel. Yet look here”—and she touched the soft down beneath her infant's cap,
                    which might, by a considerable exercise of imagination, be called hair—“it is
                    yellow, you see, Elspie! But I'll not believe your tradition. My child shall be
                    both beautiful and beloved.”
                Smitten with a sudden pang, poor Elspie cried, “Oh my leddy, dinna think o' the
                    future. Dinna!—” and she stopped, confused.
                “Really, how strange you are. But go on. We'll have no more Christinas nor
                    Isobels.”
                Hurriedly, Elspie continued to relate the histories: of noble Jean Rothesay, who
                    died by an arrow aimed at her husband's heart; and Alison, her sister, the
                    beauty of James the Fifth's reckless court, who was “no gude;” and Mistress
                    Katharine Rothesay, who hid two of “the Prince's” soldiers after Culloden, and
                    stood with a pair of pistols before their bolted door.
                “Nay, I'll have none of these—they frighten me,”
                    cried Sybilla, hiding her pretty face with a pretended alarm; “I wonder I ever
                    had courage to marry the descendant of such awful women. No! my sweet innocent!
                    you shall not be christened after them,” she continued, stroking the baby-cheek
                    with her soft finger. “You shall not be like them at all, except in their
                    beauty. And they were all handsome—were they, Elspie?”
                “Ne'er a ane o' the Rothesay line, man or woman, that wasna fair to see—the
                    fairest in the land,” cried Elspie.
                “Then so will my baby be!—like her father, I hope—or just a little like her
                    mother, who is not so very ugly, either; at least, Angus says not.” And with a
                    charming consciousness, Mrs. Rothesay drew up her tiny figure, patted one dainty
                    hand—the wedded one—with its fairy fellow; then—touched perhaps with a passing
                    melancholy that he who most prized her beauty, and for whose sake she most
                    prized it herself, was far away—she leaned back and sighed.
                However, in a few minutes, she cried out, her
                    words showing how light and wandering was the reverie, “Elspie, I have a
                    thought! The baby shall be christened Olive!”
                “It's a strange, heathen name, Mrs. Rothesay.”
                “Not at all. Listen how I chanced to think of it. This very morning, just before
                    you came to waken me, I had such a queer, delicious dream.”
                “Dream! Are ye sure it was i' the morning-tide?” cried Elspie, aroused into
                    interest.
                “Yes; and so it certainly means something, you will say, Elspie? Well, it was
                    about my baby. She was then lying fast asleep in my bosom, and her warm, soft
                    breathing soon sent me to sleep too. I dreamt that somehow I had gradually let
                    her go from me, so that I felt her in my arms no more, and I was very sad, and
                    cried out how cruel it was for any one to steal my child, until I found I had
                    let her go of my own accord. Then I looked up, after awhile, and saw standing at
                    the foot of the bed a little angel—a
                    child-angel—with a green olive-branch in its hand. It told me to follow; so I
                    rose up, and followed it over a wide desert country, and across rivers and among
                    wild beasts; but at every peril the child held out the olive-branch, and we
                    passed on safely. And when I felt weary, and my feet were bleeding, with the
                    rough journey the little angel touched them with the olive, and I was strong
                    again. At last we reached a beautiful valley, and the child said, ‘You are quite
                    safe now.’ I answered, ‘And who is my beautiful comforting angel?’ Then the
                    white wings fell off, and I only saw a sweet child's face, which bore something
                    of Angus's likeness and something of my own, and the little one stretched out
                    her bands and said, ‘Mother!’”
                While Mrs. Rothesay spoke, her thoughtless manner had once more softened into
                    deep feeling. Elspie watched her with wondering eagerness.
                “It was nae dream; it was a vision. God send it true,” said the old woman,
                    solemnly.
                
                “I know not. Angus always laughed at my dreams, but I have a strange feeling
                    whenever I think of this. Oh, Elspie, you can't tell how sweet it was! And so I
                    should like to call my baby Olive, for the sake of the beautiful angel. It may
                    be foolish—but 'tis a fancy of mine. Olive Rothesay! It sounds well, and Olive
                    Rothesay she shall be.”
                “Amen; and may she be an angel to ye a' her days. And ye'll mind o' the blessed
                    dream, and love her evermair. Oh, my sweet leddy, promise me that ye will!”
                    cried the nurse, approaching her mistress's chair, while two great tears stole
                    down her hard cheeks.
                “Of course I shall love her dearly! What made you doubt it? Because I am so
                    young? Nay, I have a mother's heart, though I am only eighteen. Come, Elspie, do
                    let us be merry; send these drops away;” and she patted the old withered face
                    with her little hand. “Was it not you who told me the saying, ‘It's ill greeting
                    ower a new born wean.’ There! don't I succeed
                    charmingly in your northern tongue?”
                What a winning little creature she was, this young wife of Angus Rothesay!
                    Probably the only person who did not think so was the old Highland uncle, Miss
                    Flora's brother, who had disinherited his nephew and promised heir for bringing
                    him a Sassenach niece.
                “A charming scene of maternal felicity! I am quite sorry to intrude upon it,”
                    said a bland voice at the door, as Dr. Johnson put in his shining bald head.
                Mrs. Rothesay welcomed him in her graceful, cordial way. She was so ready to
                    cling to every one who showed her kindness—and he had been very kind; so kind
                    that, with her usual quick impulses, she had determined to stay and live at
                    Stirling until her husband's return from Jamaica. She told Dr. Johnson so now;
                    and, moreover, as an earnest of the friendship which she, accustomed to be loved
                    by every one, expected from him, she requested him to stand godfather to her
                    little babe.
                
                “She shall be christened after our English fashion, doctor, and her name shall be
                    Olive. What do you think of her now? Is she growing prettier?”
                The doctor bowed a smiling assent, and walked to the window. Thither Elspie
                    followed him.
                “Ye maun tell her the truth—I daurna. Ye will?” and she clutched his arm with
                    eager anxiety. “An' oh! for Godsake, say it saftly, kindly. Think o' the puir
                    mither.”
                He shook her off with an uneasy look. He had never felt in a more disagreeable
                    position.
                Mrs. Rothesay called him back again. “I think, doctor, her features are
                    improving. She will certainly be a beauty. I should break my heart if she were
                    not. And what would Angus say? Come—what are you and Elspie talking about so
                    mysteriously?”
                “My dear madam—hem!” began Dr. Johnson. “I do hope—indeed, I am sure—your child
                    will be a good child, and a great comfort to both her parents;—”
                
                “Certainly—but how grave you are about it.”
                “I have a painful duty—a very painful duty,” he replied. But Elspie pushed him
                    aside.
                “Ye're just a fule, man!—ye'll kill her. Say your say at ance!”
                The young mother turned deadly pale. “Say what, Elspie? What is he
                    going to tell me? Angus—”
                “No, no, my darlin' leddy! your husband's safe;” and Elspie flung herself on her
                    knees beside the chair. “But, the bairnie—(dinna fear, for it's the will o' God,
                    and a' for gude, nae doubt)—the sweet wee bairnie is—”
                “Is, I grieve to say it, deformed,” added Dr. Johnson.
                The poor mother gazed incredulously on him, on the nurse, and lastly on the
                    sleeping child. Then, without a word, she fell back, and fainted in Elspie's
                    arms.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER III.
                IT was many days before Mrs. Rothesay recovered from the shock
                    occasioned by the tidings—to her almost more fearful than her child's death—that
                    it was doomed for life to suffer the curse of hopeless deformity. For a curse, a
                    bitter curse, this seemed to the young and beautiful creature, who had learned
                    since her birth to consider beauty as the greatest good. She was, so to speak,
                    in love with loveliness; not merely in herself, but in every human creature.
                    This feeling sprung more from enthusiasm than from personal vanity, the borders
                    of which meanness she had just touched, but never crossed. Perhaps, also, she
                    was too conscious of her own loveliness, and admired herself too ardently to care for attracting the petty admiration
                    of others. She took it quite as a matter of course; and was no more surprised at
                    being worshipped than if she had been the Goddess of Beauty herself.
                But if Sybilla Rothesay gloried in her own perfections, she no less gloried in
                    those of all she loved, and chiefly in her noble-looking husband. And they were
                    so young and impassioned, so quickly wed and so soon parted, that this emotion
                    had no time to deepen into that soul-united affection which is independent of
                    outward semblance; or, rather, becomes so divine, that instead of beauty
                    creating love, love has power to create beauty.
                No marvel then, that not having attained to a higher experience, Sybilla
                    considered beauty as all in all. And this child—her child and Angus's, would be
                    a deformity on the face of the earth, a shame to its parents, a dishonour to its
                    race. How should she ever bear to look upon it? Still more, how should she ever
                    dare to show the poor cripple to its father,
                    and say, “This is our child—our first-born.” Would he not turn away in disgust,
                    and answer that it had better died?
                Such exaggerated fancies as these haunted the miserable and erring mother, when
                    she passed from her long swoon into a sort of fever; which, though scarce
                    endangering her life, was yet for days a source of great anxiety to the devoted
                    Elspie. To the unhappy infant this madness—for it was temporary madness—almost
                    caused death. Mrs. Rothesay positively refused to see or notice her child,
                    scorning alike the tearful entreaties and the stern reproaches of the nurse. At
                    last Elspie ceased to combat this passionate resolve, springing half from anger
                    and half from delirium—
                “God forgie ye, and save the innocent bairn—the dochter He gave, and the whilk
                    ye're like to murder—unthankfu' woman as ye are,” muttered Elspie, under her
                    breath, as she quitted the room and went to succour the almost dying babe. Over
                    it her heart yearned as it had never yearned before.
                
                “Your mither casts ye aff, ye puir wee thing. Maybe ye're no lang for this warld,
                    but while ye're in it ye sall be my ain lassie, an' I'll be your ain mammie,
                    evermair.”
                So, like Naomi of old, Elspie Murray “laid the child in her bosom and became
                    nurse unto it.” But for her, the life of our Olive Rothesay,—with all its
                    influences, good or evil, small or great, as yet unknown,—would have expired
                    like a faint-flickering taper.
                Perhaps, in her madness, the unhappy mother might almost have desired such an
                    ending. As it was, the disappointed hope, which had at first resembled positive
                    dislike, subsided into the most complete indifference. She endured her child's
                    presence, but she took no notice of it; she seemed to have forgotten its very
                    existence. Her shattered health supplied sufficient excuse for the utter
                    abandonment of all a mother's duties, and the poor feeble spark of life was left
                    to Elspie's cherishing. By night and by day the child knew no other
                    resting-place than the old nurse's arms, the
                    mother's seeming to be for ever closed to its helpless innocence. True, Sybilla
                    kissed it once a day, when Elspie brought the little creature to her, and
                    exacted, as a duty, the recognition which Mrs. Rothesay, girlish and yielding as
                    she was, dared not refuse. Her husband's faithful retainer had over her an
                    influence which could never be gainsaid.
                Elspie seemed to be the sole regent of the babe's destiny. It was she who took it
                    to its baptism;—not the festal ceremony which had pleased Sybilla's childish
                    fancy with visions of christening robes and cakes, but the beautiful and simple
                    “naming” of Elspie's own church. She stood before the minister, holding the
                    desolate babe in her protecting arms; and there her heart sealed the promise of
                    her lips, to bring it up in the knowledge and fear of God. And with an earnest
                    credulity, which contained the germs of purest and loftiest faith, she,
                    remembering the mother's dream, called her nursling by the name of Olive.
                
                She carried the babe home and laid it on Mrs. Rothesay's lap. The young creature,
                    who had so strangely renounced that dearest blessing of mother-love, would fain
                    have put the child aside; but Elspie's stern eye controlled her.
                “Ye maun kiss and bless your dochter. Nae tongue but her mither's suld ca' her by
                    her new-christened name.”
                “What name?”
                “The name ye gied her yer ain sel.”
                “No, no. Surely you have not called her so. Take her away; she is not my sweet
                    angel-baby—the darling in my dream.” And Sybilla hid her face; not in anger, or
                    disgust, but in bitter weeping.
                “She's your ain dochter—Olive Rothesay,” answered Elspie, less harshly. “She may
                    be an angel to ye, yet.”
                While she spoke, it so chanced that there flitted over the infant-face one of
                    those smiles that we see sometimes in young children—strange, causeless smiles,
                    which seem the reflection of some invisible influence.
                
                And so, while the babe smiled, there came to its face such an angel-brightness,
                    that it shone into the mother's careless heart. For the first time since that
                    mournful day which had so changed her nature, Sybilla Rothesay sat down and
                    kissed the child of her own accord. Elspie heard no maternal blessing—the name
                    of “Olive” was never breathed; but the nurse was satisfied when she saw that the
                    babe's second baptism was its mother's repentant tears.
                There was in Sybilla no hardness or cruelty, only the disappointment and vexation
                    of a child deprived of an expected toy. She might have grown weary of her little
                    daughter almost as soon, even if her pride and hope had not been crushed by the
                    knowledge of Olive's deformity. Love to her seemed a treasure to be paid in
                    requital, not a free gift bestowed without thought of return. That
                    self-forgetting maternal devotion, lavished first on unconscious infancy, and
                    then on unregarding youth, was a mystery to her utterly 
                        incom-
                        incomprehensible
                     prehensible. At least it seemed so
                    now, when, with the years and the character of a child, she was called to the
                    highest duty of woman's life. This duty comes to some girlish mothers as an
                    instinct, but it was not so with Mrs. Rothesay. An orphan, and heiress to a
                    competence, if not to wealth, she had been brought up like a plant in a hot-bed,
                    with all natural impulses either warped and suppressed, or forced into undue
                    luxuriance. And yet it was a sweet plant withal; one that might have grown, ay,
                    and might yet grow, into perfect strength and beauty.
                Mrs. Rothesay's education,—that education of heart, and mind, and temper, which
                    is essential to a woman's happiness,—had to begin when it ought to have been
                    completed—at her marriage. Most unfortunate it was for her, that ere the first
                    twelvemonth of their wedded life had passed, Captain Rothesay was forced to
                    depart for Jamaica, whence was derived his wife's little fortune; their whole
                    fortune now, for he had quitted the army on his marriage. Thus Sybilla was deprived of that wholesome influence which man
                    has ever over a woman who loves him, and by which he may, if he so will,
                    counteract many a fault and weakness in her disposition.
                Time passed on, and Mrs. Rothesay, a wife and mother, was at twenty-one years old
                    just the same as she had been at seventeen—as girlish, as thoughtless, eager for
                    any amusement, and often treading on the very verge of folly. She still lived at
                    Stirling, enforced thereunto by the entreaties, almost the commands, of Elspie
                    Murray, against whom she bitterly murmured sometimes, for shutting her up in
                    such a dull Scotch town. When Elspie urged her unprotected situation, the
                    necessity of living in retirement, for the “honour of the family,” while Captain
                    Angus was away, Mrs. Rothesay sometimes frowned, but more often put the matter
                    off with a merry jest. Meanwhile she consoled herself by going as much into
                    society as the limited circle of Dr. and Mrs. Johnson allowed; and therein, as
                    usual, the lovely, gay, winning young creature
                    was spoiled to her heart's content.
                So she still lived the life of a wayward, petted child, whose natural instinct
                    for all things good and beautiful kept her from ever doing what was positively
                    wrong, though she did a great deal that was foolish enough in its way. She was,
                    as she jestingly said, “a widow bewitched;” but she rarely coquetted, and then
                    only in that innocent way which comes natural to some women, from a universal
                    desire to please. And she never ceased talking and thinking of her beautiful,
                    noble Angus.
                When his letters came, she always made a point of kissing them half-a-dozen
                    times, and putting them under her pillow at night, just like a child! And she
                    wrote to him regularly once a month—pretty, playful, loving letters. But there
                    was in them one peculiarity,—they were utterly free from that delicious maternal
                    egotism which chronicles all the little incidents of babyhood. She said, in
                    answer to her husband's questions, that “Olive was well;” “Olive could just
                        walk;” “Olive had learned to say
                        ‘Papa and Elspie.’” Nothing more.
                The fatal secret she had not dared to tell him.
                Her first letters,—full of joy about “the loveliest baby that ever was seen,”—had
                    brought his in return echoing the rapture with truly paternal pride. They
                    reached her in her misery, to which they added tenfold. Every sentence smote her
                    with bitter regret, even with shame, as though it were her fault in having given
                    to the world the wretched child. Captain Rothesay expressed his joy that his
                    little daughter was not only healthy, but pretty; for, he said, “He should be
                    quite unhappy if she did not grow up as beautiful as her mother.” The words
                    pierced Sybilla's heart; she could not—dared not tell him the truth; not yet, at
                    least. And whenever Elspie's rough honesty urged her to do so, she fell into
                    such agonies of grief and anger, that the nurse was obliged to desist.
                Sometimes, when letter after letter came from the father, full of inquiries about
                        his precious first-born,—Sybilla, whose
                    fault was more in weakness than deceit, resolved that she would nerve herself
                    for the terrible task. But it was vain—she had not strength to do it.
                The three years extended into four, and still Captain Rothesay sent gift after
                    gift, and message after message, to his daughter. Still he wrote to the
                    conscience-stricken mother how many times he had kissed the “little lock of
                    golden hue,” severed from the baby-head; picturing the sweet face and lithe,
                    active form which he had never seen. And all the while there was stealing about
                    the old house at Stirling, a pale, deformed, child; small and attenuated in
                    frame—quiet beyond its years, delicate, spiritless, with scarce one charm that
                    would prove its lineage from the young beautiful mother, out of whose sight it
                    instinctively crept.
                Thus the years fled with Olive Rothesay and her parents; each month, each day,
                    sowing seeds that would assuredly spring up, for good or for evil, in the
                    destinies of all three.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER IV.
                THE fourth year of Captain Rothesay's absence passed;—not
                    without anxiety, for it was war-time, and his letters were frequently
                    interrupted. At first, whenever this happened, his wife fretted
                        extremely—fretted is the right word, for it was more a fitful
                    chafing than a positive grief. Sybilla knew not the sense of deep sorrow. Her
                    nature resembled one of those sunny climes where even the rains are dews. So,
                    after a few disappointments, she composed herself to the certainty that nothing
                    would happen amiss to her Angus; and she determined never to expect a letter
                    until she received it, and not to look for him at all until he
                    wrote her word that he was coming. He was sure to do what was right, and to return to his dearly-loved wife as soon as ever he
                    could. And, though scarce acknowledging the fact to herself, her husband's
                    return involved such a humiliating explanation of truth concealed, if not of
                    positive falsehood, that Sybilla dared not even think of it. Whenever the
                    long-parted wife mused on the joy of meeting—of looking once more into the
                    beloved face, and being lifted up like a child to cling round his neck with her
                    fairy arms, for Angus was a very giant to her—then there seemed to rise between
                    them the phantom of the pale, deformed child.
                To drown these fancies, Sybilla rushed into every amusement which her secluded
                    life afforded. At last she resolved on an exploit at which Elspie looked aghast,
                    and which made the quiet Mrs. Johnson shake her head—an evening party—nay, even
                    a dance, at her own home.
                “It will never do for the people here; they're ‘unco
                        gude,’” said the doctor's English wife, who had imbibed a few
                    Scottish 
                        pre-
                        prejudices
                     judices by a residence of thirty
                    years. “Nobody ever dances in Stirling.”
                “Then I'll teach them,” cried the lively Mrs. Rothlesay; “I long to show them a
                    quadrille—even that new dance that all the world is shocked at. Oh! I should
                    dearly like a waltz.”
                Mrs. Jacob Johnson was scandalised at first, but there was something in Sybilla
                    to which she could not say nay,—nobody ever could. The matter was decided by
                    Mrs. Rothesay's having her own way, except with regard to the waltz, which her
                    friend stanchly resisted. Elspie, too, interfered as long as she could; but her
                    heart was just now full of anxiety about her nursling, who seemed to grow more
                    delicate every year. Day after day the faithful nurse might have been seen
                    trudging across the country, carrying little Olive in her arms, to strengthen
                    the child with the healing springs of Bridge of Allan, and invigorate her weak
                    frame with the fresh mountain air—the heather breath of beautiful Ben-Ledi.
                    Among these 
                        in-
                        influences
                     fluences did Olive's childhood dawn,
                    so that in after-life they never faded from her.
                Elspie scarce thought again about the gay party, until when she came in one
                    evening, and was undressing the sleepy little girl in the dusk, a vision
                    appeared at the nursery door. It quite startled the old Scotswoman at first, it
                    looked so like a fairy apparition, all in white, with a green coronet. She
                    hardly could believe that it was her young mistress.
                “Eh! Mrs. Rothesay, ye're no goin' to show yoursel in sic a dress,” she cried,
                    regarding with horror the gleaming bare arms, the lovely neck, and the tiny
                    white-sandalled feet, which the short and airy robe exhibited in all their
                    perfection.
                “Indeed, but I am! and 'tis quite a treat to wear a ball-dress. I, that have been
                    smothered up in all sorts of ugly costume for nearly five years. And see my
                    jewels! Why, Elspie, this pearl-set has only beheld the light once since I was
                    married—so beautiful as it is—and Angus's gift too.”
                “Dinna say that name,” cried Elspie, driven to a
                    burst of not very respectful reproach. “I marvel ye daur speak of Captain
                    Angus—and ye, wi' your havers and your jigs, while yer husband's far awa', and
                    your bairn sick! It's for nae gude I tell ye, Mrs. Rothesay.”
                Sybilla had looked a little subdued at the allusion to her husband, but the
                    moment Elspie mentioned the little Olive, her manner changed. “You are always
                    blaming me about the child, and I will not bear it. She is quite well. Are you
                    not, Baby?”—the mother never would call her Olive.
                A feeble, trembling voice answered from the little bed, “Yes, please, mamma!”
                “There, you hear, Elspie! Now, don't torment me any more about her. But I must go
                    down stairs.”
                She danced across the room in a graceful waltzing step, held out her hand towards
                    the child, and touched one so tiny, cold, and damp, that she felt half inclined
                    to take and warm it in her own. But Elspie's hawk-eyes were watching her, and
                    she was ashamed. So she only said, “Good night,
                    Baby!” and danced back again, out through the open door.
                For hours Elspie sat in the dark room beside the bed of the little child, who lay
                    murmuring, sometimes moaning, in her sleep. She never did moan but in her sleep,
                    poor innocent! The sound of music and dancing rose up from below, and then Mrs.
                    Rothesay's clear, bird-like voice was heard in many a blithe ditty.
                “Ye'd better be hushin' your puir wee bairnie here, ye heartless woman!” muttered
                    Elspie, who grew daily more jealous over the forsaken child, now the very
                    darling of her old age. She knew not that her love for Olive, and its open
                    tokens shown by reproaches to Olive's mother, were sure to suppress any dawning
                    tenderness that might be awakened in Mrs. Rothesay's bosom.
                It had not done so yet, for many a time during the dance and song did the touch
                    of that little cold hand haunt the young mother, rousing a feeling akin to remorse. But she threw it off again and again, and
                    entered with the gaiety of her nature into all the evening's pleasure. Her wild
                    enjoyment was at its height, when an old acquaintance, just discovered—an
                    English officer, quartered at the Castle—proposed a waltz. Before she had time
                    to say “Yes” or “No,” the music struck up one of those enchanting waltz-measures
                    which, to all true lovers of dancing, are as irresistible as Maurice Connor's
                    “Wonderful Tune.” Sybilla felt again the same blithe young creature of sixteen,
                    who had led the revels at her first ball, dancing into the heart of one old
                    colonel, six ensigns, a doctor, a lawyer, and of Angus Rothesay. There was no
                    resisting the impulse: in a moment she was whirling away.
                In the midst of the dizzy round the door opened, and, like some evil spectre, in
                    stalked Elspie Murray.
                Never was there such an uncouth apparition seen in a ball-room. Her grey
                    petticoat exhibited her bare feet; her short upper gown, that graceful and picturesque attire of the
                    Scottish peasantry, was thrown carelessly over her shoulders; her mutch was put on awry, and from under its immense
                    border her face appeared, as white almost as the cap itself. She walked right
                    into the centre of the floor, laid her heavy hand on Sybilla's shoulder, and
                    said,
                “Mrs. Rothesay, your husband's here!”
                The young wife stood one moment transfixed; she turned pale, afterwards crimson,
                    and then, uttering a cry of joy, sprang to the door—sprang into her husband's
                    arms.
                Dazzled with the light, the traveller resisted not, while Elspie half led, half
                    dragged him—still clasping his wife—into a little room close by, when she shut
                    the door and left them. Then she burst in once more among the astonished
                    guests.
                “Ye may gang your gate, ye heathens! Awa wi' ye, for Captain Rothesay's come
                    hame!”
                Sybilla and her husband stood face to face in the little gloomy room, lighted
                    only by a solitary candle. At first she clung
                    about him so closely that he could not see her face, though he felt her tears
                    falling, and her little heart beating against his own. He knew it was all for
                    joy. But he was strangely bewildered by the scene which had flashed for a minute
                    before his eyes, while standing at the door of the room.
                After a while he drew his wife to the light, and held her out at arm's length to
                    look at her. Then, for the first time, she remembered all. Trembling—blushing
                    scarlet, over face and neck—she perceived her husband's eyes rest on her
                    glittering dress. He regarded her fixedly, from head to foot. She felt his
                    expression change from joy to uneasy wonder, from love to sternness, and then he
                    wore a strange, cold look, such a one as she had never beheld in him before.
                “So, the young lady I saw whirling madly in some man's arms—was you, Sybilla—was
                        my wife.”
                As Captain Rothesay spoke, Sybilla distinguished in his voice a new tone,
                        echoing the strange coldness in his eyes.
                    She sprang to his neck, weeping now for grief and alarm, as she had before wept
                    for joy; she prayed him to forgive her, told him with a sincerity that none
                    could doubt, how rejoiced she was at his coming, and how dearly she loved
                    him—now and ever. He kissed her, at her passionate entreaty; said he had nothing
                    to blame; suffered her caresses patiently; but the impression was given, the
                    deed was done.
                While he lived, Captain Rothesay never forgot that night. Nor did Sybilla; for
                    then she had first seen that cold, stern look and heard that altered tone. How
                    many times was it to haunt her afterwards!
            
            
                
                CHAPTER V.
                NEXT morning Captain Rothesay and his wife sat together by the
                    fireside, where she had so often sat alone. Sybilla seemed in high spirits—her
                    love was ever exuberant in expression—and the moment her husband seemed serious
                    she sprang on his knee and looked playfully in his face.
                “Just as much a child as ever, I see,” said Angus Rothesay, with a rather wintry
                    smile.
                And then, looking in his face by daylight, Sybilla had opportunity to see how
                    changed he was. He had become a grave, middle-aged man. She could not understand
                    it. He had never told her of any cares, and he was little more than thirty. She
                    felt almost vexed at him for growing so old;
                    nay, she even said so, and began to pull out a few grey hairs that defaced the
                    beauty of his black curls.
                “You shall lecture me presently, my dear,” said Captain Rothesay. “You forget
                    that I had two welcomes to receive, and that I have not yet seen the little
                    girl.”
                He had not indeed. His eager inquiries after Olive overnight had been answered by
                    a pretty pout, and several trembling, anxious speeches about “a wife being
                    dearer than a child.” “Baby was asleep, and it was so very late—he might,
                    surely, wait tills morning.” To which, though rather surprised, he assented. A
                    few more caresses, a few more excuses, had still further delayed the terrible
                    moment; until at last the father's impatience would no longer be restrained.
                “Come, Sybilla, let us go and see our little Olive.”
                “Oh, Angus!” and the mother turned deadly white.
                Captain Rothesay seemed alarmed. “Don't trifle
                    with me, Sybilla—there is nothing the matter? The child is not ill?”
                “No; quite well.”
                “Then, why cannot Elspie bring her?” and he pulled the bell violently. The nurse
                    appeared. “My good Elspie, you have kept me waiting quite long enough; do let me
                    see my little girl.”
                Elspie gave one glance at the mother, who stood mute and motionless, clinging to
                    the chair for support. In that glance was less compassion than a sort of
                    triumphant exultation. When she quitted the room Sybilla flung herself at her
                    husband's feet.
                “Angus, Angus, only say you forgive me, before—”
                The door opened, and Elspie led in a little girl. By her stature she might have
                    been two years old, but her face was like that of a child of ten or twelve—so
                    thoughtful, so grave. Her limbs were small and wasted, but exquisitely delicate.
                    The same might be said of her features; which, though thin, and wearing a look
                    of premature age, together with that quiet,
                    earnest, melancholy cast peculiar to deformity, were yet regular, almost pretty.
                    Her head was well-shaped, and from it fell a quantity of amber-coloured
                    hair—pale “lint-white locks,” which, with the almost colourless transparency of
                    her complexion, gave a spectral air to her whole appearance. She looked less
                    like a child than a woman dwarfed into childhood; the sort of being renowned in
                    elfin legends, as springing up on a lonely moor, or appearing by a cradle-side;
                    supernatural, yet fraught with a nameless beauty. She was dressed with the most
                    care, in white, with blue ribands; and her lovely hair was arranged so as to
                    hide, as much as possible, the defect, which, alas! was even then only too
                    perceptible. It was not a humpback, nor yet a twisted spine; it was an elevation
                    of the shoulders, shortening the neck, and giving the appearance of a perpetual
                    stoop. There was nothing disgusting or painful in it, but still it was an
                    imperfection, causing an instinctive compassion—an involuntary “Poor little
                    creature, what a pity!”
                
                Such was the child—the last daughter of the ever-beautiful Rothesay line—which
                    Elspie led to claim the paternal embrace. Olive looked up at her father with her
                    wistful, pensive eyes, in which was no childish shyness—only wonder. He met them
                    with a gaze of frenzied unbelief. Then his fingers clutched his wife's arm with
                    the grasp of an iron vice.
                “Tell me! for God's sake, deceive me no longer. Is that our daughter, Olive
                    Rothesay?”
                She answered, “Yes.” He shook her off angrily, looked once more at the child, and
                    then turned away, putting his hand before his eyes, as if to shut out the
                    sight.
                Olive saw the gesture. Young as she was, it went deep to her child's soul. Elspie
                    saw it too, and without bestowing a second glance on her master or his wife, she
                    snatched up the child and hurried from the room.
                The father and mother were left alone—to meet that crisis most fatal to wedded
                    happiness, the discovery of the first deceit. 
                        Cap-
                        Captain
                     tain Rothesay sat silent, with
                    averted face; Sybilla was weeping—not that repentant shower which rains softness
                    into a man's heart, but those fretful tears which chafe him beyond
                    endurance.
                “Sybilla, come to me!” The words were a fond husband's words; the tone was that
                    of a master who took on himself his prerogative. Never had Angus spoken so
                    before, and the wilful spirit of his wife rebelled.
                “I cannot come. I dare not even look at you. You are so angry.”
                His only answer was the reiterated command, “Sybilla, come!” She crept from the
                    far end of the room, where she was sobbing in a fear-stricken, childish way, and
                    stood before him. For the first time she recognised her husband, whom she must
                    “obey.” Now, with all the power of his roused nature, he was teaching her the
                    meaning of the word. “Sybilla,” he said, looking sternly in her face, “tell me
                    why, all these years, you have put upon me this cheat—this lie!”
                
                “Cheat!—lie! Oh, Angus! What cruel, wicked words!”
                “I am sorry I used them, then. I will choose a lighter term—deceit. Why did you
                    so deceive your husband?”
                “I did not mean it,” sobbed the young wife. “And this is very unkind of you,
                    Angus! As if Heaven had not punished me enough in giving me that miserable
                    child!”
                “Silence! I am not speaking of the child, but of you; my wife, in whom I trusted;
                    who for five long years has wilfully deceived me. Why did you so?”
                “Because I was afraid—ashamed. But those feelings are past now,” said Sybilla,
                    resolutely. “If Heaven made me mother, it made you father to this unhappy child.
                    You have no right to reproach me.”
                “God forbid! No, it is not the misfortune—it is the falsehood which stings me.
                    All these five years I have toiled and toiled—comforting myself with thoughts of
                    you and our child, dreaming over your letters—oh, Heaven! what a dupe I have
                    been!”
                
                And his grave, mournful tone, rose into one of bitter anger. He paced the room,
                    tossed by a passion such as his wife had never before seen.
                “Sybilla!” he suddenly cried, pausing before her; “you do not know what you have
                    done. You little think what my love has been, nor against how much it has
                    struggled these five years. I have been true to you—ay, to the depth of my
                    heart. And you to me have been—not wholly true.”
                Here he was answered by a burst of violent hysterical weeping. He longed to call
                    for feminine assistance to this truly feminine ebullition, which he did not
                    understand. But his pride forbade. So he tried to soothe his wife a little with
                    softer words, though even these seemed somewhat foreign to his lips, after so
                    many long-parted years.
                “I did not mean to pain you thus deeply, Sybilla. I do not say that you have
                    ceased to love me!”
                Would that Sybilla had done as her first impulse taught her; have clung about
                    him, crying “Never! never!” murmuring penitent
                    words, as a tender wife may well do, and in such humility be the more exalted!
                    But she had still the wayward spirit of a petted child. Fancying she saw her
                    husband once more at her feet, she determined to keep him there. She wept on,
                    refusing to be pacified.
                At last Angus rose from her side, dignified and cold, his new, not his old self;
                    the lover no more, but the quiet, half-indifferent husband. “I see we had better
                    not talk of these things until you are more composed—perhaps, indeed, not at
                    all. What is past—is past, and cannot be recalled.”
                “Angus!” She looked up, frightened at his grave manner. She determined to
                    conciliate him a little. “What do you want me to do? To say I am sorry? That I
                    will—but,” she added with an air of coquettish command, “you must say so
                    too.”
                The jest was ill-timed; he was in too bitter a mood. “I thank you, but you exact
                    too much, Mrs. Rothesay.”
                “Mrs. Rothesay! oh, call me Sybilla, or my heart will break!” cried the young creature,
                    throwing herself into his arms. He did not repulse her; he even looked down upon
                    her with a melting, half reproachful tenderness.
                “How happy we might have been! How different had been this coming home if you had
                    only trusted me, and told me all from the beginning.”
                “Have you told me? Is there nothing you have kept back from me these
                    five years?” said the young wife, in her pretty, wilful way.
                He started a little, and then said resolutely, “Nothing, Sybilla! I declare to
                    Heaven—nothing! save, perhaps, some trifles that I would at any time tell you;
                    now, if you will.”
                “Oh no! some other time, I am too much exhausted now,” murmured Sybilla, with an
                    air of languor, half real, half feigned, lest perchance she should lose what she
                    had gained. In the sweetness of this reconciled “lovers' quarrel,” she had
                    almost forgotten its hapless cause. But Angus,
                    after a pause of deep and evidently conflicting thoughts, referred to the
                    child.
                “She is ours still. I must not forget that. Shall I send for her again?” he said,
                    as if he wished to soothe the mother's wounded feelings.
                Alas, in Sybilla's breast the fountain of mother's feeling was as yet all sealed.
                    “Send for Olive?” she said, “oh no! Do not, I implore you. The very sight of her
                    is a pain to me. Let us be happy together, and let the child be left to
                    Elspie.”
                Thus she said, thinking not only to save herself, but him, from what must be a
                    constant pang. Little she knew him, or guessed the after-effect of her
                    words.
                Angus Rothesay looked at his wife, first with amazement, then with cold
                    displeasure. “My dear, you scarce speak like a mother. You forget, likewise,
                    that you are speaking to a father. A father who, whatever affection may be
                    wanting, will never forsake his duty. Come, let us go and see our child.”
                
                “I cannot—I cannot!” and Sybilla hung back, weeping anew.
                Angus Rothesay looked at his wife—the pretty, wayward idol of his
                    bridegroom-memory—looked at her with the eyes of a world-tried, world-hardened
                    man. She regarded him too, and noted the change which years had brought in her
                    almost boyish lover of yore. His eye wore a fretful reproach—his brow, a proud
                    sorrow.
                He walked up to her and clasped her hand. “Sybilla, take care! All these years I
                    have been dreaming of the wife and mother I should find here at home; let not
                    the dream prove sweeter than the reality.”
                Sybilla was annoyed—she, the spoiled darling of every one, who knew not the
                    meaning of a harsh word. She answered, “Don't let us talk so foolishly.”
                “You think it foolish? Well, then! we will not speak in this confidential way any
                    more,” said Angus, shrinking back into his reserve. “I promise, and you know I
                    always keep my promises.”
                
                “I am glad of it,” answered Sybilla. But she lived to rue the day when her
                    husband made this one promise.
                At present, she only felt that the bitter secret was disclosed, and Angus' anger
                    overpast. She gladly let him quit the room, only pausing to ask him to kiss her,
                    in token that all was right between them. He did so, kindly, though with a
                    certain pride and gravity—and departed. She dared not ask him whether it was to
                    see again their hapless child.
                What passed between the father and mother whilst they remained shut up together
                    there, Elspie thought not—cared not. She spent the time in passionate caresses
                    of her darling, in half-muttered ejaculations, some of pity, some of wrath. All
                    she desired was to obliterate the impression which she saw had gone deeply to
                    the child's heart. Olive wept not—she rarely did; it seemed as though in her
                    little spirit was a pensive repose, above either infant sorrow or infant fear.
                    She sat on her nurse's knee, scarce speaking, but continually falling into those
                    reveries which we see in quiet children even at
                    that early age, and never without a mysterious wonder, approaching to awe. Of
                    what can these infant musings be?
                “Nurse Elspie,” said the child, suddenly fixing on Elspie's face her large eyes,
                    to look into which seemed like looking into a spring, not knowing what secrets
                    may lie—depth within depth—beneath the dark blue waters. “Elspie, was that my
                    papa I saw?”
                “It was just himsel, my sweet wee pet,” cried Elspie, trying to stop the little
                    girl's question with impassioned caresses; but Olive went on.
                “He is not like mamma—he is great and tall, like you. But he did not take me up
                    and kiss me, as you said he would.”
                Elspie had no answer for these words—spoken in a tone of quiet pain—so unlike a
                    child, in whom are the springs of anger and revenge, but rarely of wounded
                    feeling. It is only after many years that we learn to suffer and be silent.
                Was it that nature, ever merciful, had 
                        im-
                        implanted
                     planted in this poor girl, as an
                    instinct, that meek endurance which usually comes as the painful experience of
                    after-life?
                A similar thought passed through Elspie's mind, while she sat with little Olive
                    at the window, where, a few years ago, she had stood rocking the new-born babe
                    in her arms, and pondering drearily on its future. That future seemed still as
                    dark in all outward circumstances—but there was one ray of hope, which centred
                    in the little one herself. There was something in Olive which passed Elspie's
                    comprehension. At times she looked almost with an uneasy awe on the gentle,
                    silent child, who rarely played; who wanted no amusing, but would sit for hours
                    watching the sky from the window, or the grass and waving trees in the fields;
                    who never was heard to laugh, but now and then smiled in her own peculiar way—a
                    smile almost “uncanny,” as Elspie expressed it. At times the old Scotswoman—who,
                    coming from the debateable ground between Highlands and Lowlands, had united to
                    the rigid piety of the latter much wild Gaelic
                    superstition—was half inclined to believe that the little girl was possessed by
                    some spirit. But she was certain it was a good spirit; such a darling as Olive
                    was—so patient, and gentle, and good—more like an angel than a child.
                If her misguided parents did but know this! Yet Elspie, in her secret heart, was
                    almost glad they did not. Her passionate and selfish love could not have borne
                    that any tie on earth, not even that of father or mother, should stand between
                    her and the child of her adoption.
                While she pondered, there came a light knock to the door, and Captain Rothesay's
                    voice was heard without—his own voice, soothed down to its soft, gentleman-like
                    tone; it was a rare emotion, indeed, that could deprive it of that
                    peculiarity.
                “Nurse, I wish to see Miss Olive Rothesay.”
                It was the first time that formal appellation had ever been given to the little
                    girl. Still, it was a recognition. Elspie heard it with joy, for her excited and indignant fancy had almost
                    pictured the parents disowning their child. She answered the summons, and
                    Captain Rothesay walked in.
                We have never described Olive's father—there could not be a better opportunity
                    than now. His appearance did not belie his race, which, though of late
                    generations somewhat mingled with Lowland blood, had been originally pure
                    Gaelic. His tall, active form—now subsiding into the muscular fulness of middle
                    age—was that of a Hercules of the mountains. The face combined Scottish beauties
                    and Scottish defects, which, perhaps, cease to be defects when they become
                    national peculiarities. There was the eagle-eye; the large, but
                    perfectly-chiselled features—especially the mouth; and also there was the high
                    cheek-bone, the rugged squareness of the chin, which, while taking away beauty,
                    gave character to the whole.
                When he came nearer, one could easily discern that the features of the father
                    were strangely reflected in those of the child.
                    Altered the likeness was—from strength into feebleness—from manly beauty into
                    almost puny delicacy; but it did exist, and, faint as it was, Elspie perceived
                    it.
                Olive was looking up at the clouds, her thin cheek resting against the embrasure
                    of the window, gazing so intently that she never seemed to hear her father's
                    voice or step. Elspie motioned him to walk softly, and they came behind the
                    child.
                “Do ye no see, Captain Angus,” she whispered, “'tis your ain bonnie face—aye, and
                    your mither's, wha dee'd when ye were a bit laddie. Ye mind her weel?”
                Captain Rothesay did not answer, but looked earnestly at his little daughter.
                    She, turning round, met his eyes. There was something in their expression which
                    touched her, for a rosy colour suffused her face; she smiled, stretched out her
                    little hands, and said, “Papa!”
                How Elspie then prided herself for the continual tutoring which had made the
                    image of the absent father an image of love!
                
                Captain Rothesay started from his reverie at the sound of the child's voice. The
                    tone, and especially the word, broke the spell. He felt once more that he was
                    the father, not of the blooming little angel that he had pictured, but of this
                    poor deformed girl. However, he was a man in whom a stern sense of right stood
                    in the place of many softer virtues. He had resolved on his duty—he had come to
                    fulfil it—and fulfil it he would. So he took the two little cold hands, and
                    said—
                “Papa is glad to see you, my dear.”
                There was a silence, during which Elspie placed a chair for Captain Rothesay, and
                    Olive, sliding quietly down from hers, came and stood beside him. He did not
                    offer to take the two baby-hands again, but did not repulse them, when the
                    little girl laid them on his knee, looking inquiringly, first at him, and then
                    at Elspie.
                “What does she mean?” said Captain Rothesay.
                “Puir wee lassie! I tauld her, when her father was come hame, he wad be fair to
                    tak' her in his arms and kiss her.”
                
                Rothesay looked angrily round, but recollected himself. “Your nurse was right, my
                    dear.” Then pausing for a moment, as though arming himself for a duty—repugnant,
                    indeed, but necessary—he took his daughter on his knee, and kissed her
                    cheek—once, and no more. But she, remembering Elspie's instructions, and
                    prompted by her loving nature, clung about him, and requited the kiss with many
                    another. They melted him visibly. There is nothing sweeter in this world than a
                    child's unasked, voluntary kiss!
                He began to talk to her—uneasily and awkwardly—but still, he did it. “There, that
                    will do, little one! What is your name, my dear?” he said, absently.
                She answered, “Olive Rothesay.”
                “Aye—I had forgotten! The name, at least, was true.” And he spoke bitterly. The
                    next moment, he set down the child—softly—but as though it was a relief.
                “Is papa going?” said Olive, with a troubled look.
                “Yes; but he will come back to-morrow. Once a
                    day will do,” he added, to himself. Yet, when his little daughter lifted her
                    mouth for another kiss, he could not help giving it.
                “Be a good child, my dear, and say your prayers every night, and love nurse
                    Elspie.”
                “And papa too, may I?”
                He seemed to struggle violently against some inward feeling, and then answered,
                    with a strong effort, “Yes.”
                The door closed after him abruptly. Very soon Elspie saw him walking with hasty
                    strides along the beautiful walk that winds round the foot of the castle rock.
                    The nurse sat still for a long time thinking, and then ended her ponderings with
                    her favourite phrase—
                “God guide us! it'll a' come richt at last.”
                Poor, honest, humble soul!
            
            
                
                CHAPTER VI.
                THE return of the husband and father produced a considerable
                    change in the little family at Stirling. A household, long composed entirely of
                    women, always feels to its very foundations the incursion of one of “the nobler
                    sex.” From the first morning when there resounded the multiplied ringing of
                    bells, and the creaking of boots on the staircase, the glory of the feminine
                    dynasty was departed. Its easy laissez-aller,
                    its lax rule, and its indifference to regular forms, were at an end. Mrs.
                    Rothesay could no longer indulge her laziness—no breakfasting in bed, and coming
                    down in curl-paper. The long gossiping visits of her thousand-and-one
                    acquaintances subsided into frigid morning
                    calls, at which the grim phantom of the husband frowned from a corner, and
                    suppressed all idle chatter. Sybilla's favourite system of killing time by
                    half-hours in various idle ways, at home and abroad, was terminated at once. She
                    had now to learn how to be a duteous wife, always ready at the beck and call of
                    her husband, and attentive to his innumerable wants.
                She was quite horrified by these at first. The captain actually expected to dine
                    well and punctually, every day, without being troubled beforehand with “What he
                    would like for dinner?” He listened once or twice, patiently too, to her
                    histories of various small domestic grievances, and then requested politely that
                    she would confine such details to the kitchen in future; at which poor Mrs.
                    Rothesay retired in tears. He liked her to stay at home in the evening, make his
                    tea, and then read to him, or listen while he read to her. This was the most
                    arduous task of the two, for, dearly as she loved to hear the sound of his
                    voice, Sybilla never could feel 
                        in-
                        interested
                     terested in the prosy books he read,
                    and often fell half asleep; then he always stopped suddenly, sometimes looked
                    cross, sometimes sad; and in a few minutes he invariably lighted her candle,
                    with the gentle hint that it was time to retire. But often she woke, hours
                    after, and heard him still walking up and down below, or stirring the fire
                    perpetually, as a man does who is obliged to make the fire his sole
                    companion.
                And then Sybilla's foolish, but yet loving heart, would feel itself growing sad
                    and heavy; and her husband's image, once painted there in such glittering
                    colours, began to fade. The real Angus was not the Angus to her fancy. Joyful as
                    was his coming home, it had not been quite what she expected. Else, why was it
                    that at times, amidst all her gladness, she thought of their olden past with
                    regret, and of their future with doubt, almost fear?
                But it was something new for Sybilla to think at all. It did her good in spite of
                    herself.
                
                While these restless elements of future pain were brooding in the parents, the
                    little, neglected, unsightly blossom, which had sprung up at their feet, lived
                    the same unregarded, monotonous life as heretofore. Olive Rothesay had attained
                    to five years, growing much as a daisy in the field, how, none knew or cared,
                    except Heaven. And that Heaven did both know and care, was evident from the
                    daily sweetness that was stealing into this poor wayside flower, so that it
                    would surely one day be discovered through the invisible perfume which it
                    shed.
                Captain Rothesay kept to his firm resolve of seeing his little daughter in her
                    nursery, once a day at least. After a while, the visit of a few minutes
                    lengthened to an hour, even two. He listened with interest to Elspie's delighted
                    eulogiums on her beloved charge, which sometimes went so far as to point out the
                    beauty of the child's wan face, with the assurance that Olive, in features, at
                    least, was a true Rothesay. But the father always stopped her with a dignified,
                    cold look.
                
                “We will quit that subject, if you please.”
                Nevertheless, guided by his rigid sense of a parent's duty, he showed all
                    kindness to the child, and his omnipotent sway over his wife exacted the same
                    consideration from the hitherto indifferent Sybilla. It might be, also, that in
                    her wayward and informal nature, the chill which had unconsciously fallen on the
                    heart of the wife, caused the mother's heart to awaken. Feelings unwonted began
                    to dawn faintly in Mrs. Rothesay's bosom; they were reflected in her eyes; and
                    then the mother would be almost startled to see the response which this new,
                    though scarcely defined, tenderness created in her child.
                For some months after Captain Rothesay's return, the little family abode in the
                    retired old-fashioned dwelling on the hill of Stirling. Their quiet round of
                    uniformity was only broken by the occasional brief absence of the head of the
                    household, as he said, “on business.” Business was a word conveying
                    such distaste, if not horror, to Sybilla's ears, that she asked no questions,
                        and her husband volunteered no information.
                    In fact, he rarely was in the habit of doing so—whether interrogated or not.
                At last, one day when he was sitting after dinner with his wife and child—he
                    always punctiliously commanded that “Miss Rothesay” might be brought in with the
                    dessert—Angus made the startling remark:
                “My dear Sybilla, I wish to consult with you on a subject of some
                    importance.”
                She looked up with a pretty, childish surprise.
                “Consult with me! Oh, Angus! pray don't teaze me with any of your hard business
                    matters; I never could understand them.”
                “And I never for a moment imagined you could. In fact, you told me so, and
                    therefore I have never troubled you with them, my dear,” was the reply,
                    dignified, with just the slightest shade of satire. But its bitterness passed
                    away the moment Sybilla jumped up and came to sit down on the hearth at his
                    feet, in an attitude of comical attention. Thereupon he patted her on the head,
                    gently and smilingly, for he was but a young
                    husband still, and she was such a sweet plaything for an idle hour.
                A plaything! Would that all women considered the full meaning of the term—a thing
                    sighed for, snatched, caressed, wearied of, neglected, scorned! And would, also,
                    that every wife knew that her fate depends less on what her husband makes of
                    her, than what she makes herself to him!
                “Now, Angus, begin—I am all attention.”
                He looked one moment doubtfully at Olive, who sat in her little chair at the
                    further end of the room, quiet, silent, and demure. She had beside her some
                    purple plums, which she did not attempt to eat, but was playing with them,
                    arranging them with green leaves in a thousand graceful ways, and smiling to
                    herself when the afternoon sunlight, creeping through the dim window, rested
                    upon them, and made their rich colour richer still.
                “Shall we send Olive away?” said the mother.
                “No, let her stay—she is of no importance.”
                
                The parents both looked at the child's pale, spiritual face, felt the reproach it
                    gave, and sighed. Perhaps both father and mother would have loved her, but for a
                    sense of shame in the latter, and the painful memory of deceit in the
                    former.
                “Sybilla,” suddenly resumed Captain Rothesay, “what I have to say is merely, how
                    soon you can arrange to leave Stirling?”
                “Leave Stirling?”
                “Yes; I have taken a house.”
                “Indeed! and you never told me anything about it,” said Sybilla, with a vexed
                    look.
                “Now, my little wife, do not be foolish; you know that you never wish to hear
                    about business, and I have taken you at your word; you cannot object to
                    that?”
                But she could, and she had a thousand half-pouting, half-jesting complaints to
                    urge. She put them forth rather incoherently; in fact, she talked for five
                    minutes without giving her husband opportunity for a single word, and yet she
                    loved him dearly, and had in her heart scarce any objection to being saved
                        the trouble of thinking beforehand; only
                    she thought it right to stand up a little for her conjugal prerogative.
                He listened in perfect silence. When she had done, he merely said, “Very well,
                    Sybilla; then we will leave Stirling this day month. I have decided to live in
                    England. Oldchurch is a very convenient town, and I have no doubt you will find
                    Merivale Hall an agreeable residence.
                        
                        ”
                    
                “Merivale Hall. Are we really going to live in a Hall?” cried Sybilla, clapping
                    her hands with childish glee. But immediately her face changed. “You must be
                    jesting with me, Angus. I don't know much about money, but I know we are not
                    rich enough to keep up a Hall.”
                “We were not rich, but we are now, I am happy to say,” answered
                    Captain Rothesay, with a look of dignified triumph.
                “Rich! very rich! and you never told me!” Sybilla's hands fell on her knee, and
                    it was doubtful which expression was dominant in her countenance—womanly pain, or womanly indignation.
                Angus looked annoyed. “My dear Sybilla, listen to me quietly—yes, quietly,” he
                    added, in a resolute tone, seeing how her colour came and went, and her lips
                    seemed ready to burst out into petulant reproach. “When I left England, I was
                    taunted with having ran away with an heiress. That, I did not do, since you were
                    far poorer than the world thought—and I loved little Sybilla Hyde for herself,
                    and not for her fortune. But the taunt stung me, and, when I left you, I
                    resolved never to return until I could return a rich man on my own account. I am
                    such now. Are you not glad, Sybilla?”
                “Glad—glad to have been kept in the dark like a baby—a fool! It was not proper
                    treatment towards your wife, Angus,” was the petulant answer, as Sybilla drew
                    herself from his arm, which came as a mute peace-maker to encircle her
                    waist.
                “Now you are a child, indeed. I did it from
                    love—believe me or not, it was so—that you might not be pained with the
                    knowledge of my struggles, toils, and cares. And was not the reward, the wealth,
                    all for you?”
                “No; for yourself.”
                “Pray, hear reason, Sybilla!” her husband continued, in those quiet, unconcerned
                    tones, which, to a woman of quick feelings, and equally quick resentments, were
                    sure to add fuel to fire.
                “I will not hear reason. When you have these four years been rolling in wealth,
                    and your wife and child were—oh, Angus!” and she began to weep.
                Captain Rothesay tried at first, by explanations and by soothings, to stop the
                    small torrent—the “continual dropping” of fretful tears and half-broken
                    accusations. All his words were misconstrued or misapplied. Sybilla would not
                    believe but that he had slighted, ill-used, deceived her.
                At the term the husband rose up sternly.
                “Mrs. Rothesay, who was it that deceived me?”
                
                He pointed to the child, and the glance of both rested on little Olive.
                She sat, her graceful playthings fallen from her hands, her large soft eyes
                    dilated with such a terrified wonder, that both father and mother shrank before
                    them. That fixed gaze of the unconscious child seemed like the reproachful look
                    of some angel of innocence sent from a purer world.
                There was a dead silence. In the midst of it the little child crept from her
                    corner and stood between her parents, her little hands stretched out, and her
                    eyes full of tears.
                “Olive has done nothing wrong? Papa and mamma, you are not angry with poor little
                    Olive?” said the faint, sweet voice, falling like oil on the troubled
                    waters.
                For the first time, as she looked into the poor child's face, there flashed
                    across the mother's memory the likeness of the angel in her dream. She pressed
                    the thought back, almost angrily, but it came again. Then Sybilla stooped down,
                    and, for the only time since her babyhood,
                    Olive found herself lifted to her mother's embrace.
                “The child had better go away to bed,” said Captain Rothesay, restlessly, but yet
                    gently.
                Olive was carried out, nestling closely in her mother's arms.
                When Sybilla came back the angry pout had passed from her beautiful face, though
                    a grave, troubled shadow still remained there. She made tea for her husband,
                    tried to talk on common topics once or twice, but he gave little encouragement.
                    Before retiring to rest, she said to him, timidly—
                “There is no quarrel between us, Angus?”
                “Not in the least, my dear,” he answered, with that composed deprecation of any
                    offence, given or received, which is the most painful check to an impulsive
                    nature; “only, we will not discuss matters of business together again. Women
                    never can talk things over quietly. Good night, Sybilla.”
                He lifted his head a little, a very little, for her accustomed kiss. She gave it,
                    but with it there came a sigh. He scarcely noticed either one or the other, being apparently deep in a
                    large folio “Commentary on the Proverbs,” for it was Sunday evening. He lingered
                    for a whole hour over the last chapter, and chiefly the passages,—
                “Who can find a virtuous woman: for her price is far above rubies. The heart of
                    her husband doth safely trust in her: so that he shall have no need of spoil....
                    She openeth her mouth with wisdom: and in her tongue is the law of
                    kindness.”
                At this, Captain Rothesay closed the book, laid his arms upon it; and sighed—oh,
                    how heavily! He did not go to bed that night until his young wife had lain awake
                    for hours, regretting and resolving; nor until, after many determinations of
                    future penitence and love, she had at last wept herself to sleep for very
                    sorrow.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER VII.
                LOOKING back on a calm and uneventful childhood,—and by
                    childhood we mean the seven years between the babyhood of five and the dignity
                    of “'teens,”—it always seems like a cloudy landscape, with a few points of view
                    here and there, which stand out clearly from the rest. Therein the fields are
                    larger and the sky brighter than any we now behold. Persons, places, and events
                    assume a mystery and importance. We never think of them, or hear them named
                    afterwards, but there clings to them something of the strange glamour of the
                    time when “we saw men as trees walking.”
                Olive's childhood was passed in the place mentioned by her father. Merivale!
                        Oldchurch! In her future life the words,
                    whenever heard, always sounded like an echo of that dreamy time, whose sole
                    epochs are birthdays, Christmas-days, the first snowdrop found in the garden,
                    the first daisy in the field. Such formed the only chronicle of Olive's
                    childhood.
                Its earliest period was marked by events which she was too young to notice,
                    troubles which she was too young to feel. They passed over her like storm-clouds
                    over a safely sheltered flower—only perceivedby the momentary shadow which they
                    cast. Once—it was in the first summer at Merivale—the child noticed how pleased
                    every one seemed, and how papa and mamma, now always together, used to speak
                    more tenderly than usual to her. Elspie said it was because they were so happy,
                    and that Olive ought to be happy too, because God would soon send her “a wee wee
                    brother.” She would find him some day in the pretty cradle, which Elspie showed
                    her. So the little girl went to look there every morning, but in vain. At last
                    her nurse said she need not look there any more, for God had taken away the
                        baby- brother as soon as it came. Olive was
                    very much disappointed, and when she went down to her father that day she told
                    him of her trouble. But he angrily sent her away to her nurse. She looked ever
                    after with grief and childish awe on the empty cradle.
                At last it was empty no longer. She, a thoughtful child of seven, could never
                    forget the impression made, when one morning she was roused by the loud pealing
                    of the Oldchurch bells, and the maids told her, laughing, it was in honour of
                    her little brother, come at last. She was allowed to kiss him once, and and then
                    spent half her time, watching, with great joy and wonderment, the tiny face, and
                    touching the tiny hands. After some days she missed him; and after some more
                    Elspie showed her a little heap in the nearest churchyard, saying, that was her
                    baby-brother's cradle now. Poor little Olive!—her only knowledge of the sweet
                    tie of brotherhood was these few days of silent watching, and the little green
                    mound left behind in the churchyard.
                
                From that time there came a gradual change over the household, and over Olive's
                    life. No more long, quiet hours after dinner, her father reading, her mother
                    occupied in some light work, or resting on the sofa in delicious idleness, while
                    Olive herself, little noticed, but yet treated with uniform kindness by both,
                    sat on the hearthrug fondling the sleepy cat, or gazing with vague childish
                    reverie into the fire. No more of the proud pleasure, with which, on Sunday
                    afternoons, exalted to her grave papa's knee, she created an intense delight,
                    out of what was to him a somewhat formal duty, and said her letters from the
                    large family Bible. These childish joys vanished gradually, she scarce knew how.
                    Her papa she now rarely saw, he was so much from home, and the quiet, dreamy
                    house wherein she loved to ramble, became a house of feasting, her beautiful
                    mamma being the centre of its gaiety. Olive retreated to her nursery and to
                    Elspie, and the rest of her childhood was one long, solitary, pensive dream.
                In that dream was the clear transcript of all
                    the scenes amidst which it passed. The old hall, seated on a rising ground, and
                    commanding views which were really beautiful in their way, considering that
                    Merivale was on the verge of a manufacturing district, bounded by pastoral and
                    moorland country. Those strange furnace-fires, which rose up at dusk from the
                    earth, and gleamed all around the horizon, like red fiery eyes open all night
                    long, how mysteriously did they haunt the imaginative child! Then the town,
                    Oldchurch, how in her after-life it grew distinct from all other towns, like a
                    place seen in a dream, so real and yet so unreal! There was its castle-hill, a
                    little island within a large pool, which had once been a real fortress and moat.
                    Old Elspie contemned alike tradition and reality, until Olive read in her little
                    “History of England” the name of the place, and how John of Gaunt had built a
                    castle there. And then Elspie vowed it was unworthy to be named the same day
                    with beautiful Stirling. Continually did she impress on the child the glories of
                    her birth-place, so that Olive in after-life,
                    while remembering her childhood's scenes as a pleasant land of earth, came to
                    regard her native Scotland as a sort of dream paradise. The shadow of the
                    mountains where she was born, fell softly, solemnly, over her whole life;
                    influencing her pursuits, her character, perhaps even her destiny.
                Yet there was a curious fascination about Oldchurch. In the cloudy memories of
                    her childhood it rose up, as she used to go there with Elspie, at far distant
                    intervals. The two great wide streets, High-street and Broadstreet, intersecting
                    one another in the form of a cross: the two churches—the Old Church, gloomy, and
                    Norman, with its ghostly graveyard; and the New Church, shining white amidst a
                    pleasant garden-cemetery, beneath one of whose flower-beds her baby-brother lay.
                    The two shops, the only ones she ever visited, the confectioner's, where she
                    stood to watch the yearly fair, and the bookseller's, whither she dragged her
                    nurse on any excuse, that she might pore over its incalculable treasures.
                Above all, there was fixed in her memory the
                    strange aspect the town wore on one day—a Coronation-day—the grandest gala of
                    her childhood. One king had died and been buried. Olive saw the black-hung
                    pulpit and heard the funeral sermon, awfully thundered forth at night. Another
                    king had been proclaimed, and Olive had gloried in the sight of the bonfires and
                    the roasted sheep. Now, the people talked of a Coronation-day. Simple child! she
                    knew nothing of the world's events or the world's destinies, save that she rose
                    early to the sound of carolling bells, was dressed in a new white frock, and
                    taken to see the town—the beautiful town, smiling with triumphal flower-arches,
                    and winding processions. How she basked in the merry sunshine, and heard the
                    shouts, and the band playing “God save the King,” and felt very loyal, until her
                    enthusiasm vented itself in tears.
                Such was one of the few links between Olive's early life and the world outside.
                    Otherwise she dwelt, for those seven years of childhood, in a little Eden of her
                    own, whose boundary was rarely crossed by the
                    footsteps of either joy or pain. She was neither neglected nor ill-used, but she
                    never knew that fullness of love, on which one looks back in after-life, saying
                    deprecatingly, and yet sighing the while, “Ah, I was indeed a spoiled child!”
                    Her little heart was not positively checked in its overflowings; but it had a
                    world of secret tenderness that, being never claimed, expended itself in all
                    sorts of wild fancies. She loved every flower of the field and every bird in the
                    air. She also—having a passionate fondness for study and reading—loved her pet
                    authors and their characters, with a curious individuality. Mrs. Hofland stood
                    in the place of some good aunt, and Sandford and Merton were regarded just like
                    real brothers.
                She had no one to speak to about poetry; she did not know there was such a thing
                    in the world. Yet she was conscious of strange and delicious sensations, when in
                    the early days of spring she had at length conquered Elspie's fears about wet
                    feet and muddy fields, and had gone with her
                    nurse to take the first meadow ramble, she could not help bounding to pluck
                    every daisy she saw; and when the violets came, and the primroses, she was out
                    of her wits with joy. She had never even heard of Wordsworth; yet, as she
                    listened to the first cuckoo note, she thought it no bird, but truly “a
                    wandering voice.” Of Shelley's glorious lyric ode she knew nothing; and yet she
                    never heard the skylark's song without thinking it a spirit of the air, or one
                    of the angels hymning at Heaven's gate. And many a time she looked up in the
                    clouds at early morning, half expecting to see that gate open, and wondering
                    whereabouts it was in the beautiful sky.
                She had never heard of Art, yet there was something in the gorgeous sunset that
                    made her bosom thrill; and out of the cloud-ranges she tried to form mountains
                    such as there were in Scotland, and palaces of crystal such as she read of in
                    her fairy tales. No human being had ever told her of the mysterious links that
                    reach from the finite to the Infinite, out of
                    which, from the buried ashes of dead Superstition, great souls can evoke those
                    two mighty spirits, Faith and Knowledge; yet she went to sleep every night
                    believing that she felt, nay, could almost see, an angel standing at the foot of
                    her little bed, watching her with holy eyes, guarding her with outspread
                    wings.
                O Childhood! beautiful dream of unconscious poetry; of purity so pure, that it
                    knew neither the existence of sin nor of its own innocence; of happiness so
                    complete, that the thought, “I am now happy,” came not to drive away the wayward
                    sprite which never is, but always is to come! Blessed Childhood!
                    spent in peace and loneliness and dreams! We would fain look back lovingly on
                    our own, as Olive Rothesay may yet look on hers—feeling that hidden therein, lay
                    the germs of a whole life.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER VIII.
                OLIVE ROTHESAY was twelve years old, and she had never learnt
                    the meaning of that word whose very sound seems a wail—sorrow. And that other
                    word, which is the dirge of the whole earth—death—was still to her only a name.
                    She knew there was such a thing; she read of it in her books; its shadow had
                    passed her by when she missed her little brother from the cradle; but still it
                    had never stood by her side and said, “Lo, I am here!” Her circle of love was so
                    small, that it seemed as though the dread spectre could not enter. She saw it
                    afar off; she thought upon it sometimes in her poetical dreams, which clad the
                    imaginary shape of grief with a strange beauty. It was sweet to be sad, sweet
                        to weep. She even tried to make a few
                    delicious sorrows for herself; and when a young girl—whose beautiful face she
                    had watched in church—died, she felt pensive and mournful, and even took a
                    pleasure in thinking that there was now one grave in the new churchyard which
                    she would almost claim to weep over as her own.
                Such were the strange tendencies of this child's mind—ever toward the melancholy
                    and the beautiful united. Quietly pensive as her disposition was, she had no
                    young companions to rouse her into mirth. But there was a serenity even in her
                    sadness; and no one could have looked in her face without feeling that her
                    nature was formed to suit her apparent fate, and that if less fitted to enjoy,
                    she was the more fitted for the solemnity of that destiny, to endure.
                She had lived twelve years without knowing sorrow, and it was time that the first
                    lesson, bitter, yet afterwards sweet, should be learned by the child. The shaft
                    came to her through Elspie's faithful bosom,
                    where she had rested all her life, and did rest now, with the unconscious
                    security of childhood, which believes all it loves to be immortal. That Elspie
                    should grow old, seemed a thing of doubtful future; that she should be ill or
                    die, was a thing that never crossed the child's imagination.
                And when at last, one year in the fall of the leaf, the hearty and vigorous old
                    woman sickened, and for two or three days did not quit her room, still Olive,
                    though grieving for the moment, never dreamed of any serious affliction. She
                    tended her nurse lovingly and cheerfully, made herself quite a little woman for
                    her sake, and really half enjoyed the stillness of the sick-room. It was a gay
                    time—the house was full of visitors—and Elspie and her charge, always much left
                    to one another's society, were now alone in their nursery, night and day. No one
                    thought the nurse was ailing, except with the natural infirmity of old age, and
                    Elspie herself uttered no word of complaint. Once or twice, while Olive was
                    doing her utmost to enliven the sick-chamber, she saw her nurse watch her
                        with eager love, and then sink into a
                    grave reverie, from which it took more than one embrace to rouse her.
                One night, or rather morning, Olive was roused by the sight of a white figure
                    standing at her bedside. She would have been startled, but that Elspie, sleeping
                    in the same room, had many a time come to look on her darling, even in the
                    middle of the night. She had apparently done so now.
                “Go to your bed again, dear nurse,” anxiously cried Olive. “You should not walk
                    about. Nay, you are not worse?”
                “Aye, aye, just a wee bit aur, maybe; but dinna fear, dearie, we'll bide till the
                    morn,” said Elspie, faintly, as she tried to move away, supporting herself by
                    the bed. But soon she sank back dizzily. “It's nae use, I canna gang. My sweet
                    lassie, will ye help your puir auld nurse.”
                Olive sprang up, and guided her back to her bed. When she reached it, Elspie
                    said, thoughtfully, “It's strange, unco' strange, my strength is a' gane.”
                
                “Never mind, Elspie dear, you are weak with being ill; but you will get better
                    soon. Oh, yes, very soon!” answered the child, with the eager certainty of
                    desire.
                “It's no that;” and Elspie took her child's hands and looked wistfully in her
                    face. “Olive, what suld ye say gin ye were to tine your puir auld nurse, an' I
                    were to gang far awa'?”
                “Go where?”
                “Unto God,” said Elspie, solemnly.—“Dearie, I wadna grieve ye, but I'm aye sure
                    this sickness is unto death.”
                It was strange that Olive did not begin to weep, as many a child would have done;
                    but though a cold trembling crept through her young frame at these words, she
                    remained quite calm. For Elspie must be kept calm likewise, and how could she be
                    so if her child were seen to suffer. Olive remembered this, and showed no sign
                    of grief or alarm. Besides, she could not—would not believe a thing so fearful
                    as Elspie's death. It was impossible.
                “You must not think thus—you must think of
                    nothing but getting well. Lie down and go to sleep,” she said, in a tone of
                    almost womanly firmness, which Elspie obeyed mechanically. Then she would have
                    roused the household, but the nurse forbade. By her desire Olive again sought
                    her pillow.
                It had always been her custom to creep to Elspie's bed as soon as she awoke, but
                    now she did so long before daylight, in answer to a faint summons.
                “I want ye, my bairn. Ye'll come to your auld nurse's arms—maybe they'll no haud
                    ye lang,” murmured Elspie. She clasped the child once, with an almost passionate
                    tenderness, and then, turning away, dropped heavily asleep.
                But Olive did not sleep. She lay until broad daylight, counting hour by hour, and
                    thinking thoughts deep and strange in a child of her years—thoughts of death and
                    eternity. She did not believe EIlspie's words; but if they should be true—if her
                    nurse should die—if this should be the last time she would ever creep to her
                    living bosom!
                
                And then there came across the child's mind awful thoughts of death and of the
                    grave. She struggled with them, but they clung with fearful tenacity to her
                    fancy. All she had heard or read of mortality, of the coffin and the mould, came
                    back with a vivid horror. She thought,—what if in a few weeks, a few days, the
                    hand she held should be cold, lifeless; the form, whose faint breathings she
                    listened to, should breathe no more, but be carried from her sight, and shut up
                    in a grave—under a stone? And then where would be Elspie—the tender, the
                    faithful—who seemed to live but in loving her? Olive had been told that when
                    people died, it was their bodies only that lay in the grave, and their souls
                    went up to heaven to be with God. But all her childish reasoning could not
                    dissever the two.
                It was a marvel, that, loving Elspie as she did, such thoughts should come at
                    all—that her mind was not utterly numbed with grief and terror. But Olive was a
                    strange child, there were in her little spirit
                    depths of which no one dreamed.
                Hour after hour she lay in these ponderings, so horrible, yet fraught with such a
                    strange fascination, and starting with a shudder every time they were broken by
                    the striking of the clock below. How awful a clock sounds in the night-time, and
                    to such a watcher—a mere child too! Olive longed for morning, and yet when the
                    dusk of daybreak came, the very curtains took ghastly shapes, and her own white
                    dress, hanging behind the door, looked like a shroud, within which—. She
                    shuddered—and yet, all the while, she could not help eagerly conjecturing what
                    the visible form of death would be.
                Utterly unable to endure her own thoughts, she tried to rouse her nurse. And then
                    Elspie started up in bed, seized her with burning hands, and asked her who she
                    was, and what she had done with little Olive.
                “I am little Olive—indeed, I am,” cried the terrified child.
                
                “Are ye sure? Aweel then, dearie, dinna greet,” murmured poor Elspie, striving
                    vainly against the delirium that she felt fast coming on, “My bairn, is it near
                    morn? Oh, for a wee drappie o' milk or tea.”
                “Shall I go and call the maids. But that dark, dark passage—I dare not,” cried
                    Olive, whose wild imagination often exposed her to the terrors of a superstition
                    far beyond mere childish fear of darkness.
                “It's no matter, bide ye till the daylight,” said Elspie, as she sank again into
                    heavy sleep.
                But the child could not rest. Was it not cruel to let her poor nurse lie
                    suffering burning thirst, rather than encounter a few vague terrors? and if
                    Elspie should have a long illness, should die—what then would the remembrance
                    be? Without another thought the child crept out of bed and groped her way to the
                    door.
                It is easy to laugh at children's fancies about “ghosts” and “bogie,” but Dante's
                    terrors in the haunted wood were not greater
                    or more real than poor little Olive's, when she stood at the entrance of the
                    long gallery, dimly peopled with the fantastic shadows of dawn. None but those
                    who remember the fearful imaginings of their childhood, can comprehend the
                    self-martyrdom, the heroic daring, which dwelt in that little trembling bosom,
                    as Olive groped across the gloom.
                Half-way through, she touched the cold handle of a door, and could scarce repress
                    a scream. Her fears took to positive shape, but she felt surrounding her Things
                    before and Things behind. No human courage could give her strength to resist
                    such terrors. She paused, closed her eyes, and said the Lord's Prayer all
                    through. But “Deliver us from evil,” she repeated many times, feeling
                    each time stronger and bolder. Then first there entered into her heart that
                    mighty faith “which can remove mountains;” that fervent boldness of prayer with
                    the very utterance of which an answer comes. And who dare say that the Angel of
                    that child, “always 
                        behold-
                        beholding
                     ing the face of the Father in
                    Heaven,” did not stand beside her then, and teach her in faint shadowings the
                    mysteries of her life to come.
                Olive's awe-struck fancy became a truth—she never crept to her nurse's bosom
                    more. By noon that day, Elspie lay in the deathly torpor which marks the last
                    stage of rapid inflammation. She did not even notice the child, who crept in and
                    out of the thronged room, speaking to no one, neither weeping nor trembling, but
                    struck with a strange awe, that made her countenance and mien almost unearthly
                    in their quietness.
                “Take her away to her parents,” whispered the physician. But her mother had left
                    home the day before, and Captain Rothesay had been absent a week. There were
                    only servants in the house, and they looked at her often, said, “Poor child!”
                    and left her to go where she would. Olive followed the physician downstairs.
                “Will she die?”
                He started at the touch of the soft hand— soft
                    but cold, always cold. He looked at the little creature, whose face wore such an
                    unchildlike expression. He never thought to pat her head, or treat her like a
                    girl of twelve years old, but said gravely, as though he were speaking to a
                    grown woman:
                “I have done my best, but it is too late. In three hours, or perhaps four, all
                    will be over.” He quitted the room, and Olive heard the rattle of his
                    carriage-wheels. They died away down the gravel road, and all was silent.
                    Silent, except the twitter of a few birds, heard through the stillness of a July
                    evening. Olive stood at the window and mechanically looked out. It was so
                    beautiful, so calm. At the west, the clouds were stretched out in pale folds of
                    rose colour and grey. On the lawn slept the long shadows of the trees, for
                    behind them was rising the round, red moon. And yet, within the house
                    was—death.
                She tried to realize the truth. She said to herself, time after time, “Elspie
                    will die!” But even yet she could not believe it. How could the little birds sing and the sunset shine,
                    when Elspie was dying. At last the light faded, and then she believed it all.
                    Night and death seemed to come upon the world together.
                Suddenly she remembered the physician's words. “Three hours—four hours.” Was that
                    all? And Elspie had not spoken to her since the moment when she cried and was
                    afraid to rise in the dark. Elspie was going away, for ever, without one kiss,
                    one goodbye.
                Weeping passionately, Olive flew back to the chamber, where several women stood
                    round the bed. There lay the poor aged form, in a torpor which, save for the
                    purple face and the loud, heavy breathing, had all the unconsciousness of death.
                    Was that Elspie? The child saw, and her tears were frozen. The maids would have
                    drawn her away.
                “No—no,” Olive said, in a frightened whisper; “let me look at her—let me touch
                    her hand.”
                
                It lay outside the bedclothes, helpless and rigid, the fingers falling together,
                    as they always do in the hour of parting life. Olive touched them. They were
                    cold—so cold! Then she knew what was death. The maids carried her fainting from
                    the room, and she entered it no more.
                Mrs. Rothesay had returned, and frightened and grieved, now wept with all a
                    woman's softness over the death-bed of the faithful old nurse. She took her
                    little daughter to her own sitting-room, laid her on the sofa, and watched by
                    her very tenderly. Olive, exhausted and half insensible, heard, as in a dream,
                    her mother whispering to the maid:
                “Come and tell me, when there is any change.”
                Any change. What change? That from life to death—from earth to
                    Heaven! And would it take place at once? Could they tell the instant when
                    Elspie's soul departed, “to be beyond the sun?”
                Such and so strange were the thoughts that floated through the mind of this child
                    of twelve years old. And from these precocious
                    yearnings after the infinite, Olive's fancy turned to earthly, childish things.
                    She pictured with curious minuteness how she would feel when she awoke next
                    morning, and found that Elspie was dead;—how there would be a funeral; how
                    strange the house would seem afterwards; even, what would be done with the black
                    bonnet and shawl which two days since Elspie had hung up against the
                    nursery-door, never to put on again.
                And then a long silent agony of weeping came upon the child. Her mother, thinking
                    she slept, sat quietly by; but in any case, Olive would never have thought of
                    going to her for consolation. Young as she was, Olive knew that her sorrow must
                    be borne alone, for none could understand it. Until we feel that we are alone on
                    earth, how rarely do we feel that we are not alone in heaven. For
                    the second time this day, the child thought of God. Not merely as of Him to whom
                    she offered her daily prayers, and those repeated after the clergyman in church
                    on Sunday, but as One to whom, saying “Our
                    Father,” she could ask for anything she desired.
                And she did so, lying on the sofa, not even turning to kneel down, using her own
                    simple words. She prayed that God would comfort her when Elspie died, and teach
                    her not to grieve, but to be a good patient child, so that she might one day go
                    to her dear nurse in heaven, and never be parted from her any more.
                She heard the maid come in and whisper to her mamma. Then she knew that all was
                    over—that Elspie was dead. But so deep was the peace which had fallen on her
                    heart that the news gave no pang—caused no tears.
                “Olive, dearest,” said Mrs. Rothesay, herself subdued into weeping.
                “I know all, mamma,” was the answer. “Now I have no one to love me but you.”
                The feeling was strange, perhaps even wrong; but as Mrs. Rothesay clasped her
                    child, it was not without a thrill of freedom and exultation that Olive was all
                    her own now.
                
                “Where shall Miss Rothesay sleep tonight,” was the whispered question of the
                    maid. Olive burst into tears.
                “She shall sleep with me. Darling, do not cry for your poor nurse; will not mamma
                    do instead?”
                And looking up, Olive saw, as though she had never seen it before, the face
                    which, now shining with maternal love, seemed beautiful as an angel's. It became
                    to her like an angel's evermore.
                How often, in our human fate, does the very Hand that taketh, give!
            
            
                
                CHAPTER IX.
                MRS. ROTHESAY, touched by an impulse of regretful tenderness,
                    showed all due respect to the memory of the faithful woman who had nursed with
                    such devotion her husband and her child. For a whole long week Olive wandered
                    about the shut-up house, the formal solemnities of death, now known for the
                    first time, falling heavily on her young heart. Alas! that there was no one to
                    lift it beyond the terrors of the grave to the sublime mysteries of
                    immortality.
                But the child knew none of these, and therefore she crept, awe-struck, about the
                    silent house, and, when night fell, dared not even to pass near the chamber—once
                    her own and Elspie's—now Death's. She saw the
                    other members of the household enter with solemn faces through the
                    perpetually-locked door. What must there be within? Something on which she dared
                    not think, and which nothing could induce her to behold. At times she forgot her
                    sorrow; and, still keeping close to her mother's side, amused herself with her
                    usual childish games, piecing disjointed maps, or drawing on a slate; but all
                    was done with a quietness, sadder than even tears.
                The evening before the funeral, Mrs. Rothesay went to look for the last time on
                    the remains of her faithful old servant. She tried to persuade little Olive to
                    go with her; the child accompanied her to the door, and then weeping violently,
                    fled back and hid herself in another chamber. From thence she heard her mother
                    come away—also weeping, for the feeble nature of Sybilla Rothesay had lost none
                    of its tender-hearted softness. Olive listened to the footsteps gliding
                    downstairs, and there was silence. Then the passionate affection which she had felt for her old nurse rose
                    up, driving away all childish fear, and strengthening her into a resolution
                    which until then she had not dared to form. Tomorrow they would take away
                        Elspie—for ever. On earth she would never again see the face
                    which had been so beloved. Could she let Elspie go without one look, only one?
                    She would enter the awful room now, and alone.
                No tongue can tell the intensity of love that must have been in that young
                    child's heart to nerve her thus!
                It was about seven in the evening, still daylight, though in the darkened house
                    dimmer than without. Olive drew the blind aside, took one long gaze into the
                    cheerful sunset landscape to strengthen and calm her mind, and then walked with
                    a firm step to the chamber-door. It was not locked this time, but closed ajar.
                    The child looked in, a little way only. There stood the well-remembered
                    furniture, the room seemed the same, only pervaded with an atmosphere of silent, solemn repose. There would surely be
                    no terror there.
                Olive stole in, hearing in the stillness every beating of her heart. She stood by
                    the bed. It was covered, not with its usual starry counterpane, the work of
                    Elspie's diligent hand through many a long year, and on which her own
                    baby-fingers had been first taught to sew—but with a large white sheet. She
                    stood, scarce knowing whether to fly or not, until she heard a footstep on the
                    stairs. One minute, and it would be too late. With a resolute hand she lifted
                    the sheet, and saw the white fixed countenance, not of sleep, but death.
                With a shriek so wild and piercing that it rang through the house, Olive sprang
                    to the door, fled through the passage, at the end of which she sank in
                    convulsions.
                That night the child was taken from the house, and never entered it until some
                    weeks after, when the grass was already springing on poor Elspie's grave.
                
                It is nature's blessed ordinance, that in the mind of childhood the remembrance
                    of fear or sorrow fades so fast. Therefore, when Olive came back to Merivale,
                    and saw the house now smiling within and without amidst the beauty of early
                    autumn,—the horrors of death passed from her mind, or were softened into a
                    tender memory. Perhaps, in the end, it was well for her that she had looked on
                    that poor dead face, to be certain that it was not Elspie. She never thought of
                    Elspie in that awful chamber any more. She thought of her as in life, standing
                    knitting by the nursery-window, walking slowly and sedately along the green
                    lanes, carrying the basket of flowers and roots, collected in their rambles, or
                    sitting in calm Sunday afternoons with her Bible on her knee.
                And then passing from the memory of Elspie once on earth, Olive thought of Elspie
                    now in heaven. Her glowing imagination idealised all sorrow into poesy. She
                    never watched the sunset, she never looked up into the starry sky at night, without picturing Elspie as
                    there. All the foibles and peculiarities of her poor old Scottish nurse became
                    transmuted into the image of a guardian invisible, incorporeal; which seemed to
                    draw her own spirit nearer to heaven, with the thought that there was one she
                    loved, and who loved her, in the glorious mansions there.
                So do pure hearts ever feel when the first beloved goes; and oh, how ought we to
                    feel when we have many beloveds passed thither, each following the other's holy
                    footsteps, and heralding ours to the one home!
                From the time of her nurse's death, the whole current of Olive's life changed. It
                    cast no shadow over the memory of the deep affection lost, to say that the full
                    tide of living love now flowed towards Mrs. Rothesay as it had never done
                    before, perhaps never would have done but for Elspie's death. And truly the
                    mother's heart now thirsted for that flood.
                For seven years the little cloud which appeared when Captain Rothesay returned,
                    had risen up between husband and wife, 
                        in-
                        increasing
                     creasing slowly but surely, and
                    casting a shadow over their married home. Like many another pair who wed in the
                    heat of passion, or the wilful caprice of youth, their natures, never very
                    similar, had grown less so, day by day, until in mature age their two lives,
                    instead of flowing onward in one bright loving current, had severed wider and
                    wider. There was no open dissension that the wicked world could take hold of, to
                    glut its eager eyes with the spectacle of an unhappy marriage; but the chasm was
                    there, a gulf of coldness, indifference and distrust, which no foot of love
                    would ever cross.
                Angus Rothesay was a disappointed man. At five-and-twenty he had taken a
                    beautiful, playful, half-educated child 
                        His bride and his darling to be,
                     forgetting that at thirty-five he should need a sensible woman to be his
                    trust-worthy sympathising wife, the careful and thoughtful mistress of his
                    household. When hard experience had made him old and wise, even a little before his time, he came home expecting to
                    find her old and wise too. The hope failed. He found Sybilla as he had left
                    her—a very child. Ductile and loving as she was, he might even then have guided
                    her mind, have formed her character, in fact, have made her anything he liked.
                    But he would not do it; he was too proud. He brooded over his disappointed hope
                    in silence and reserve; and though he reproached her not, and never ceased to
                    love her in his own cold way, yet the respect, the sympathy were gone. Her ways
                    were not his ways, and was it the place of a man and a husband to bend? After a
                    few years of struggling, less with her than with himself, he decided that he
                    would take his own separate course, and let her take hers.
                He did so. At first she tried to win him back, not with a woman's sweet and
                    placid dignity of love, never-failing, never-tiring, yet invisible as a rivulet
                    that runs through deep green bushes, scarcely heard and never seen. Sybilla's
                    arts—the only arts she knew, were the whole armoury of girlish coquetry, or childish wile, passionate tenderness and
                    angry or sullen reproach, alternating each other. Her husband was equally
                    unmoved by all. He seemed a very rock, indifferent to either sunshine or storm.
                    And yet it was not so. He had in his nature deep, earnest, abiding tenderness;
                    but he was one of those people who must be loved only in their own quiet, silent
                    way. A hard lesson for one whose every feeling was less a principle than an
                    impulse, Sybilla could not learn it. And thus the happiness of two lives were
                    blighted, not from evil, or even lack of worth in either, but because they did
                    not understand one another. Their current of existence flowed on coldly and
                    evenly, in two parallel lines, which would never, never meet!
                The world beheld Captain Rothesay in two phases—one as the grave, somewhat
                    haughty but respected master of Merivale Hall; the other as the rash and daring
                    speculator, who was continually doubling and trebling his fortune by all the
                    thousand ways of legal gambling in which men of capital and 
                        mer-
                        merchandise
                     chandise can indulge. There was in
                    this kind of life an interest and excitement. Captain Rothesay sprang to it as
                    many another man would have sprung to far less sinless means of atoning for the
                    dreary blank of home.
                In Mrs. Rothesay the world only saw one of its fairest adornments—one of those
                    “charming women” who make society so agreeable; beautiful, kind-hearted—at least
                    as much so as her thoughtless life allowed; lively, fond of amusement—perhaps a
                    little in the extreme, for it caused people to note the contrast between the
                    master and the mistress of the Hall, and to say what no wife should ever give
                    the world reason to say. “Poor thing! I wonder if she is happy with her
                    husband?”
                But between these two stood the yet scarce recognised tie which bound them
                    together—the little deformed child.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER X.
                “CAPTAIN ROTHESAY?”
                “My dear?”
                Reader, did you ever notice the intense frigidity that can be expressed in a “my
                    dear!” The coldest, cruellest husband we ever knew once impressed this fact on
                    our childish fancy, by our always hearing him call his wife thus—poor, pale,
                    broken-hearted creature! He “my-deared” her into her grave.
                Captain Rothesay also used the epithet with that formality which was chilling
                    enough in its way. He said it without lifting his eyes from the book, “Smith's
                    Wealth of Nations,” which had become his usual evening's study now, whenever he
                    was at home. That 
                        cir-
                        circumstance
                     cumstance, rare enough to have been
                    welcome, and yet it was not welcome, now subdued his wife and daughter into
                    silence and quietness. Alas! that ever a presence which ought to be the sunshine
                    of a household should enter only to cast a perpetual shade.
                The firelight shone on the same trio which had formed the little after-dinner
                    circle years ago at Stirling. But there was a change in all. The father and
                    mother sat—not side by side, in that propinquity which is so sweet, when every
                    breath, every touch of the beloved's garment gives pleasure; they sat one at
                    each corner of the table, engrossed in their several occupations of reading with
                    an uncommunicative eagerness, and sewing in unbroken silence. Each was placed
                    within a chilling circle of thoughts and interests in which the other never
                    entered. And now the only point of meeting between them was the once-banished
                    child.
                Little Olive was growing almost a woman now, but she was called “little Olive”
                    still. She retained her diminutive stature, together with her girlish dress, but her face wore, as ever,
                    its look of premature age. And as she sat between her father and mother, now
                    helping the one in her delicate fancy-work, now arranging the lamp for the
                    other's reading, continually in request by both, or when left quiet for a
                    minute, watching both with anxious earnestness, there was quite enough in
                    Olive's manner to show that she had entered on a woman's life of care, and had
                    not learned a woman's wisdom one day too soon.
                The captain's last “my dear” found his wife in the intricacies of a Berlin wool
                    pattern, so that she did not speak again for several minutes, when she again
                    appealed to “Captain Rothesay.” She rarely called him anything else now. Alas!
                    the time of “Angus” and “Sybilla” was gone.
                “Well, my dear, what have you to say?”
                “I wish you would not be always reading, it makes the evening so dull.”
                “Does it?” and he turned over another leaf of Adam Smith, and leisurely settled
                    himself for its perusal.
                
                “Papa is tired, and may like to be quiet. Suppose we talk to one another, mamma?”
                    whispered Olive, as she put aside her own work—idle, but graceful designings
                    with pencil and paper—and, drawing near to her mother, began to converse in a
                    low tone. She discussed all questions as to whether the rose should be red or
                    white, and what coloured wool would form the striped tulip, just as though they
                    had been the most interesting topics in the world. Only once her eyes wandered
                    wistfully to the deserted “Sabrina,” which, half sketched, lay within the leaves
                    of her “Comus.” Mrs. Rothesay observed this, and said, kindly—
                “Let me look at what you are doing, love. Ah!—very pretty! What is it, Sabrina?
                    Tell me all about her.” And she listened, with a pleased, maternal smile, while
                    her gratified little daughter dilated on the beloved “Comus,” and read a passage
                    or two in illustration. “Very pretty, my love,” again repeated Mrs. Rothesay,
                    stroking Olive's hair. “Ah! you are a clever child. But now come and tell me what sort of winter dresses
                    you think we should have.”
                If any observer could have seen a shade of disappointment on Olive's face, he
                    would also have seen it instantly suppressed. The young girl closed “Comus” with
                    the drawing inside, and came to sit down again, looking up into the eyes of her
                    “beautiful mamma.” And even the commonplace question of dress soon became
                    interesting to her, for her artistic predilection followed her even there, and
                    no lover ever gloried in his mistress's charms, no painter ever delighted to
                    deck his model, more than Olive loved to adorn and to admire the still exquisite
                    beauty of her mother. It stood to her in the place of all attractions in
                    herself—in fact, she rarely thought about herself at all. The consciousness of
                    her personal defect had worn off through habit, and her almost total seclusion
                    from strangers prevented its being painfully forced on her mind.
                “I wish we could leave off this mourning,” said Mrs. Rothesay. “It is quite
                        time, seeing Sir Andrew Rothesay has been
                    dead six months. And, living or dying, he did not show kindness enough to make
                    one remember him longer.”
                “Yet he was kind to papa, when a child; and so was Auntie Flora,” softly said
                    Olive, to whose enthusiastic memory there ever clung Elspie's tales about the
                    Perthshire relatives—bachelor brother and maiden sister, living together in
                    their lonely, gloomy home. But she rarely talked about them; and now, seeing her
                    mamma look troubled, as she always did at any reference to Scotland and the old
                    times, the little maiden ceased at once. Mrs. Rothesay was soon again safely and
                    contentedly plunged into the mysteries of winter costume.
                “Yours must be handsomer and more womanly now, Olive; for I intend to take you
                    out with me now and then. You are quite old enough; and I am tired of visiting
                    alone. I intended to speak to your papa about it to-night; but he seems not in
                    good-humour.”
                
                “Only tired with his journey,” put in the sweet little mediator. “Is it not so,
                    papa?”
                Captain Rothesay started from a dull, anxious reverie, into which his reading had
                    merged, and lifted his face, knitted and darkened with some inward care, heavy
                    enough to make his tone sharp and angry, as he said,
                “Well, child, what do you want?”
                “Do not scold Olive; it was I who wished to speak to you.” And then, without
                    pausing to consider how evidently ill-timed the conversation was, Mrs. Rothesay
                    began to talk eagerly about Olive's “coming out,” and whether it should be at
                    home or abroad; finally arguing that a ball at Merivale would be best, and
                    entering at large on the question of ball-costume. There was nothing wrong in
                    anything she said, but she said it at the wrong time. Her husband listened first
                    with indifference, then fidgeted restlessly in his chair, and at last subsided
                    into an angry silence.
                “Why don't you speak, Captain Rothesay?” He took up the poker and 
                        ham-
                        hammered
                     mered the fire to small cinders. “Of
                    course, you will be reasonable. Say, shall it be as I have arranged?”
                “No!” The word came thundering out—as Captain Rothesay rarely thundered; for he
                    was calm and dignified even in his wrath. Immediately afterwards he rose up and
                    left the room.
                Sybilla grew pale, sorrowful, and then melted into tears. She tried not to let
                    Olive see them. She was still too faithful a wife to seek in any way to turn the
                    child against her father. But yet she wept; and drawing her young daughter
                    closer to her arms, she felt the sweetness of having a child—and such a
                    child—left to love her. In proportion as the wife's heart closed, the mother's
                    opened.
                Ere long, Captain Rothesay sent for little Olive, to read the evening newspaper
                    to him in his study.
                “Go, love,” said Mrs. Rothesay; and she went. Without fear, too; for her father
                    never said a harsh word to her. And as, each year of her life, the sterling truth and stern
                    uprightness of his character dawned upon her, she could not fail to respect him,
                    even while she worshipped her sweet-tempered, gentle mother.
                Captain Rothesay made no remark, save upon the subject she was reading, and came
                    in with Olive to tea, just as usual. But when he had finished, and was fast
                    sinking back into that painful reverie which seemed to oppress him, his weak,
                    ill-judging wife recommenced her attack. She talked gently when speaking of
                    Olive, even affectionately—poor soul! She persuaded herself, all the time, that
                    she was doing right, and that he was a hard-hearted father not to listen to her.
                    He did listen, apparently; and she took his silence for consent, for she ended
                    with—
                “Well, then, it is quite settled; the ball shall be at Merivale, on the 20th of
                    next month?”
                Angus turned round, his blue eyes glittering, yet cold as steel—“Mrs. Rothesay,
                    if you will worm the truth out of me, you shall. By next month you may not have a roof over your head.”
                He rose up and again quitted the room. Mrs. Rothesay trembled—grew terrified—but
                    tried to reassure herself. “He only says this in anger, or else to frighten me.
                    I will not believe it.” Then conscience whispered, that never in her whole life
                    had she known Angus Rothesay to tell a falsehood; and she trembled more and
                    more. Finally, she passed into a violent fit of nervous weeping—a circumstance
                    by no means rare. Her health was weakened by the exciting gaieties of her
                    outward life, and the inward sorrow which preyed upon her heart.
                This night—and not for the first time either—the little maiden of fifteen might
                    have been seen, acting with the energy and self-possession of a woman—soothing
                    her mother's hysterical sufferings—smoothing her pillow, and finally watching by
                    her until she fell asleep. Then Olive crept downstairs, and knocked at her
                    father's study-door. He said, “Come in,” in a dull, subdued tone. She entered, and saw him sitting, his head on his
                    hand, jaded and exhausted, leaning over the last embers of the fire, which had
                    gone out without his noticing it. If there had been any anger in the child's
                    heart, it must have vanished at once, when she looked upon her father thus.
                “Oh! is that you, Olive?” was all he said, beginning to turn over his papers, as
                    if to make a show of occupation. But he soon relapsed into that unknown thought
                    which oppressed him so much. It was some minutes before he completely roused
                    himself, and saw the little elfin-like figure standing beside him, silent and
                    immoveable, with the taper in her hand.
                “Shall I bring your candle, dear papa? It is eleven o'clock and more.”
                “Where is your mother, Olive?”
                “She is gone to bed;” and Olive paused, uncertain whether she should tell him
                    that her mamma was ill. Again there was a silence—during which, do what he
                    would, Captain Rothesay could not keep his eyes from the earnest, wistful, entreating gaze of his “little Olive.” At last, he
                    lifted her on his knee, and took her face between his two hands, saying, in a
                    smothered tone,
                “You are not like your mother; you are like mine—aye, and seem more
                    so as you grow to be a woman.
                        
                        ”
                    
                “I wish I were a woman, that papa might talk to me and tell me anything which he
                    has on his mind,” whispered Olive, scarcely daring to breathe that which she had
                    nerved herself to say, during many minutes of silent pondering at the
                    study-door.
                Captain Rothesay relapsed hastily into his cold manner. “Child, how do you
                    know?”
                “I know nothing, and want to know nothing, that papa does not wish to tell me,”
                    answered Olive, gently.
                The father turned round again, and looked into his daughter's eyes. Perhaps he
                    read there a spirit equal to, and not unlike, his own—a nature calm, resolute,
                    clear-sighted; the strong will and decision of a man, united to the tenderness
                    of a woman. From that hour father and daughter
                    understood one another.
                “Olive, how old are you?—I forget.”
                “Fifteen, dear papa.”
                “Ah! and you are a thoughtful girl. I can talk to you as to a woman—pah! I mean,
                    a sensible woman. Put out your candle; you can sit up a while longer.”
                She obeyed, and sat with him for two whole hours in his study, while he explained
                    to her how sudden reverses had so damaged his fortune, that it was necessary to
                    have a far smaller establishment than Merivale Hall.
                “Not that we need fear poverty, my dear child; but the future must be considered
                    and provided for. Your mother's jointure, should I die—nay, do not look sad, we
                    will not talk of that—and then, too, your own portion, when you marry.”
                Olive blushed, as any girl of fifteen will do, when talked to on such a topic,
                    even in the most business-like way. “I shall not marry, papa,” said she,
                    expressing the thought which had come to her, as it does to most young girls who love their parents very
                    dearly, too dearly to imagine a parting.
                Captain Rothesay started, as if suddenly recollecting himself. Then he regarded
                    her earnestly, mournfully; and in the look was something which struck on Olive's
                    memory as though she had seen it before.
                “I had forgotten,” muttered Captain Rothesay to himself. “Of course, she will
                    never marry. Poor child!—poor child!”
                He kissed her very tenderly, then lighted his candle, and went upstairs to bed,
                    holding her hand all the way, until they parted at her room-door, when he kissed
                    her a second time. As he did so, she contrived to whisper—
                “Mamma is sure to wake; she always does when you come in. Kiss mamma, too.”
                Olive went to bed, happier than she could have believed possible, had any one
                    told her in the morning that ere night she would hear the ill news of having to
                    leave beautiful Merivale. But it was so sweet to feel herself a comfort to both
                    parents—they who, alas! would receive no
                    comfort from each other.
                Only, just when she was falling asleep, the thought floated across Olive's
                    mind—
                “I wonder why papa said that of course I should never marry!”
            
            
                
                CHAPTER XI.
                “DEAR mamma! is not this a pretty house, even though it is in a
                    town?—so pretty, one need hardly pine after Merivale!”
                Thus said Olive when they had been established some time in their new abode, and
                    sat together, one winter evening, listening to the sweet bells of Oldchurch—one
                    of the few English parishes where lingers “the curfew's solemn sound.”
                “A pretty house, if any one came to see us in it, my dear; but nobody does. And
                    then we miss the close carriage so much. To think that I have been obliged to
                    refuse the Stantons' ball, and the dinner-party at Everingham. How dull these
                    long winter evenings will be, Olive!”
                
                Olive answered neither yes nor no; but tried quietly,
                    by her actions, to disprove the fact. She was but a child—scarcely would have
                    been called a clever child; was neither talkative nor musical; and yet she had a
                    thousand winning ways of killing time, so sweetly that each minute died,
                    dolphin-like, shedding glorious hues.
                A very romantic simile this—one that would never have crossed Olive's innocent
                    brain. She only knew that she loved her mother; and therefore tried to amuse and
                    make her happy, so that she might not feel the change of circumstances—a change
                    so unimportant to Olive, so vital to Mrs. Rothesay.
                Olive, this night, was peculiarly successful in her little ruse of love. Her mother listened while she
                    explained a whole sketchbook of designs, illustrative of half-a-dozen modern
                    poets. Mrs. Rothesay even asked her to read some of the said poets aloud; and
                    though not of an imaginative temperament, was fain to shed a few womanly tears
                    over Tennysons delicious home-lyrics,
                    especially “The Queen of the May,” and “The Miller's Daughter.” Finally, she was
                    coaxed into sitting to her daughter for her portrait, which Olive thought would
                    make a design exactly suited to the heroine of the latter poem, and chiefly at
                    the verse—
                
                    
                        “Look through mine eyes with thine. True wife,
                        Round my true heart thine arms entwine;
                        My other dearer life in life,
                        Look through my very soul with thine.”
                    
                
                And, reading the verses over and over again, to bring the proper expression to
                    her mother's face, the young girl marvelled that they brought likewise a look so
                    sad, that she would fain have made some excuse, and terminated the sitting.
                “No, no, my dear, it amuses me, and I can talk with you the while.”
                But Mrs. Rothesay did not talk much; she was continually falling into a reverie.
                    Once she broke it, with the words—
                “Olive, my child, I think, now we lead a quieter life, your papa will stay at
                    home more. He seems to like this house, too—he never liked Merivale.”
                
                “Dear old Merivale!” said Olive, with a sigh. It seemed ages since she had left
                    the familiar place.
                “Do not call it dear. It was a dreary home. I did not think so at
                    first, but I did afterwards.”
                “Why, mamma?” asked Olive. She was glad to lure her mother on to talk a little,
                    if only to dispel the shadow which so ill became Mrs. Rothesay's still fair
                    face.
                “You were too young to know anything then—indeed you are now, almost. But
                    somehow, I have learned to talk with you as if you were quite a little woman,
                    Olive, my dear.”
                “Thank you, mamma. And what made you dislike sweet Merivale?”
                “It was when your papa first began to take his long journeys—on business, you
                    know. He was obliged to do it, I suppose; but, nevertheless, it was very dull
                    for me. I never had such a dreary summer as that one. You could not remember it,
                    though—you were only ten years old.”
                
                Olive did remember it faintly, nevertheless—a time when her father's face was
                    sterner, and her mother's more fretful, than now; when the shadow of many
                    domestic storms passed over the pure spirit of their unconscious child. But she
                    never spoke of these things; and, lest her mother should ponder painfully on
                    them now, she began to talk of lighter matters. Yet though the sweet
                    companionship of her only daughter was balm to Mrs. Rothesay's heart, still
                    there was a pain there which even Olive could not remove. Was it that the
                    mother's love had sprung from the ruins of the wife's happiness; and that while
                    smiling gaily with her child, Sybilla, Rothesay's thoughts were with the husband
                    who, year by year, was growing more estranged, and whom, as she found out too
                    late, by a little more wisdom, patience, and womanly sympathy, she might perhaps
                    have kept for ever at her side?
                
                But none of these mysteries came to the knowledge of little Olive. She lived the
                    dream-life of early girlhood—dwelling in an atmosphere still and pure as a grey
                    spring morning, ere the sun has risen. All she learnt was from books; for though
                    she had occasional teachers, she had never been sent to school. Sometimes she
                    regretted this, thinking how pleasant it would be to have companions, or at
                    least one friend of her own age, to whom she might talk on the various subjects
                    of which she had of late begun to dream. These never passed the still sanctuary
                    of her own thoughts; for some instinct told her that her mother would scarce
                    sympathise with her wild imaginations in Art and Poetry. So she thought of them
                    always by herself, when she was strolling about the small but pleasant garden
                    that sloped down from the back of the house to the river; or when, extending her
                    peregrinations, she went to sit in the
                    summer-house of the garden adjoining, which belonged to a large mansion close
                    by, long uninhabited. It was quite a punishment to Olive when a family came to
                    live there, and she lost the use of the beautiful, deserted garden.
                Still, it was something new to have neighbours. She felt quite a curiosity
                    respecting them, which was not diminished when, looking out one day from the
                    stair-case window (a favourite seat, from which every night she watched the sun
                    set), Olive caught a sight of the new occupants of her former haunts.
                They were two little boys of about nine or ten, playing noisily enough—as boys
                    will. Olive did not notice them much, except the youngest, who appeared much the
                    quieter and gentler of the two; but her gaze rested a long time on a girl, who
                    seemed to be their elder sister. She was walking by herself up and down an alley, with a shawl thrown over her head,
                    and her thick, black hair blown about by the March winds. Olive thought she
                    looked very picturesque—in fact, just like some of her own fantastic designs of
                    “Norna on the Fitful Head,” “Medora watching for Conrad,” &c.
                    &c. And when the young stranger drew nearer, her admiration was still
                    further excited, by perceiving under the shawl a face that needed but a little
                    romantic imagination to make it positively beautiful. Olive thought so, and
                    accordingly sat the whole evening drawing it from memory, under various
                    characters, from Scott, Byron, Moore, and Coleridge.
                For several days after, she took a deep interest in watching the family-party,
                    and chiefly this young girl—partly because she was so pretty, and partly because
                    she seemed nearly about her own age, or perhaps a year or two older. Olive often
                    contrived to walk in her garden when her
                    neighbours were in theirs—so that she could hear the boys' cheerful voices over
                    the high hedge. By this means she learnt their Christian names, Robert, and
                    Lyle—the latter of which she admired very much, and thought it exactly suited
                    the pretty, delicate younger brother. She wished much to find out that of their
                    sister—but could not; for the elder girl took little notice of them, or they of
                    her. So Olive, after thinking and talking of her for some time, as “my beauty
                    next door,” to Mrs. Rothesay's great amusement, at last christened her by the
                    imaginary name of Maddalena.
                After a few weeks, it seemed as though the interest between the young neighbours
                    became mutual—for Olive, in her walks, sometimes fancied she saw faces watching
                        her, too, from the staircase window. And once, peering over the
                    wall, she perceived the mischievous eyes and pointed finger of the elder boy, and heard the younger one say,
                    reproachfully—
                “Don't—pray! You are very cruel, Bob.”
                And Olive, deeply blushing—though at what she scarcely knew—fled into the house,
                    and did not take her usual garden walks for some days.
                At last, when, one lovely spring evening, she stood leaning over the low wall at
                    the garden's end, idly watching the river flow by beneath, she turned round, and
                    saw fixed on her, with a curiosity not unmingled with interest, the dark eyes of
                    “Maddalena.” Somehow or other, the two girls smiled—and then the elder
                    spoke.
                “The evening was very fine,” she said; “and it was rather dull, walking in the
                    garden all alone.”
                Olive had never found it so; but she was used to it. Her young neighbour was not;
                    she had always lived in a large town, &c. &c.
                A few more simple nothings spun out the
                    conversation for ten minutes. The next day it was resumed, and extended to
                    twenty; during which Olive learnt that her young beauty's name, so far from
                    being anything so fine as Maddalena, was plain Sarah—or Sara, as
                    its owner took care to explain. Olive was rather disappointed—but she thought of
                    Coleridge's ladye love; consoled herself, and tried to console the young lady,
                    with repeating 
                        My pensive Sara! thy soft cheek reclined, &c.
                     At which Miss Sara Derwent laughed, and asked who wrote that very pretty
                    poetry?
                Olive was a little confounded. She fancied everybody read Coleridge, and her
                    companion sank just one degree in her estimation. But as soon as she looked
                    again on the charming face, with its large, languishing Asiatic eyes, and
                    delicate mouth—just like that of the lotus-leaved “Clytie,” which she loved so
                    much,—Olive felt all her interest revive.
                    Never was there any girl over whom every form of beauty exercised more
                    fascination. By the week's end she was positively enchanted with her neighbour,
                    and before a month had passed the two young girls had struck up that romantic
                    friendship peculiar to sixteen.
                There is a deep beauty—more so than the world will acknowledge—in this
                    impassioned first friendship, most resembling first love, whose faint shadowing
                    it truly is. Who does not, even while smiling at its apparent folly, remember
                    the sweetness of such a dream? Many a mother with her children at her knee, may
                    now and then call to mind some old playmate, for whom, when they were girls
                    together, she felt such an intense love. How they used to pine for the daily
                    greeting—the long walk, fraught with all sorts of innocent secrets. Or, in
                    absence, the almost interminable letters—positive love- letters, full of “dearest”s and “beloved”s, and
                    sealing-wax kisses. Then the delicious meetings—sad partings, also quite
                    lover-like in the multiplicity of tears and embraces—embraces sweeter than those
                    of all the world beside—and tears, but our own are gathering while we write—Ah! 
                        We also have been in Arcadia.
                    
                Gracious reader! grave, staid mother of a family!—you are not quite right if you
                    jest at the days of old, and at such feelings as these. They were real at the
                    time—and most pure, true, and beautiful. What matter, if years, sweeping on,
                    have swept them all away, or merged them into higher duties and closer ties?
                    Perhaps, if you met your beautiful idol of fifteen, you would see a starched old
                    maid of fifty, or a grandame presiding over the third generation; or, perchance,
                    in seeking thus, you would find only a green
                    hillock, or a stone inscribed with the well-known name. But what of that? To you
                    the girlish image is still the same—it never can grow old, or change, or die.
                    Think of it thus; and then you will think, not mockingly, but with an interest
                    almost mournful, on the rapturous dream of first friendship which now came to
                    visit Olive Rothesay.
                Sara Derwent was the sort of girl of whom we meet some hundreds in a
                    life-time—the class from whence are taken the lauded “mothers, wives, and
                    daughters of England.” She was sincere, good-tempered, affectionate; not
                    over-clever, being more gifted with heart than brains; rather vain, which fault
                    her extreme prettiness half excused; always anxious to do right, yet, from a
                    want of decision of character, often contriving to do wrong.
                But she completely charmed the simple Olive with her beauty, her sparkling,
                    winning cheerfulness, and her ready sympathy. So they became the most devoted friends. Not a day passed without their spending
                    some portion of it together—Olive teaching the young Londoner the pleasures of
                    the country; and Sara, in her turn, inducting the wondering Olive into all the
                    deligtful mysteries of life, as learnt in a large home circle, and a still
                    larger circle of society. Olive, not taking aught from the passionate love with
                    which she looked up to her mother, yet opened her warm heart to the sweetness of
                    this affection—so fresh, so sudden, so full of sympathetic contact. It was like
                    a new revelation in her girlhood—the satisfying of a thirst, just beginning to
                    be felt. She thought of Sara continually; delighted in being with her; in
                    admiring her beauty, and making interests out of every interest of hers. And to
                    think that her friend loved her in return, brought a sensation of deep
                    happiness, not unmixed with gratitude.
                
                Sara's own feelings may be explained by one sentence of a letter which she wrote
                    to an old school-mate. Therein she told how she had found “such a dear, loving,
                    gentle thing; a girl, not pretty—even slightly deformed; but who was an amusing
                    companion, and to whom she could confide everything. Such a blessing in that
                    dull place, Oldchurch!”
                Poor little Olive!—
            
            
                
                CHAPTER XII.
                AS the summer advanced, Olive Rothesay and her new friend,
                    sanctioned by the elders of both families, took long walks together, read, and
                    practised. Not that Olive practised, for she had no voice, and little knowledge
                    of music; but she listened to Sara's performances for hours, with patience, if
                    not with delight. And then they talked—oh, what talks those were!
                Now, reader, be not alarmed lest we should indulge you with the same. Go back
                    into your own répertoire of early friendships,
                    and that will suit us quite as well. Still, we may just say, that these young
                    friends flitted like bees over every subject under heaven, and at last alighted on the subject most interesting
                    at their age—love.
                It is curious to note how the heart first puts out its tendrils and stretches
                    them forth toward the yet unknown good which is to be in after-life its
                    happiness and its strength. What folly of parents to repress these blind
                    seekings after such knowledge—this yearning which nature teaches, and which in
                    itself involves nothing wrong. Girls will think of love, whether or
                    no! How much better, then, that they should be taught to think of it rightly; as
                    the one deep feeling of life. Not, on the one hand, to be repressed by ridicule;
                    or, on the other, to be forced by romance into a precocious growth; but to be
                    entered upon, when fate brings the time, rationally, earnestly, and
                    sacredly.
                Olive Rothesay found, with considerable pain, that Miss Derwent and she did not
                    at all agree in their notions of love. Olive had always felt half-frightened at the subject, and never approached it save with
                    great awe and timidity; but Sara did not seem to mind it in the least. She
                    talked of a score of “flirtations” at quadrille parties—showed her friend
                    half-a-dozen complimentary billet-doux which she had received, and all with the
                    greatest unconcern. By degrees this indifference vanished under the influence of
                    Olive's more earnest nature; and at last, when they were sitting together one
                    night, listening to the fierce howling of the wind, a little secret came
                    out.
                “I don't like that equinoctial gale,” said Sara, shyly. “I used to hear so much
                    of its horrors from—from a friend I have—at sea.”
                “Indeed. Who was that?”
                “Only Charles Geddes. Did I never speak of him? Very likely not—because I was so
                    vexed at his leaving college and 
                        run-
                        running
                     ning off to sea. It was a foolish
                    thing. But don't mention him to papa or the boys.” And Sara blushed—a real,
                    good, honest blush.
                Olive did the same—perhaps from sympathy. She continued very thoughtful for a
                    long time; longer even than Sara. They were not many days in making out between
                    them the charming secret for which in their hearts they had been longing. Both
                    were thirsting to taste—or at least to see each other taste—of that enchanting
                    love-stream, the stream of life or of death, at whose verge they had now
                    arrived.
                And so, it somehow chanced that however the conversation began, it usually glided
                    into the subject of Charles Geddes. Sara acknowledged that he and she had always
                    liked one another very much, though she allowed that he was fonder of her than
                    she was of him; that, when they parted, he had seemed much agitated, and she had cried—but they were mere
                    boy and girl then. It was nothing—nothing at all.
                Olive did not think so; and, contrasting all this with similar circumstances in
                    her pet poems and novels, she wove a very nice romance round Charles Geddes and
                    her beloved Sara, whom she now began to look upon with greater interest and
                    reverence than ever. This did not prevent her reading Sara a great many lectures
                    on constancy, and giving her own opinions on what true love ought to be—opinions
                    which were a little too ethereal for Miss Derwent's comprehension, but which she
                    liked very much, nevertheless.
                Olive took quite an affectionate interest in her friend's lover—for lover she had
                    decided that he must be. Not a day passed that she did not eagerly consult the
                        Times' “shipping
                    intelligence;” and when at last she saw the name of Charles Geddes' vessel, as
                    “arrived,” her heart beat, and tears sprang to her eyes. When she showed it to
                    Sara, Olive could hardly speak for joy. Little simpleton! she counted her
                    friend's happiness as if it were her own. She kept the secret even from her
                    mother; that is, in the only manner Olive would conceal aught from any one so
                    beloved, by saying, “Please, mamma, do not ask me anything.” And Mrs. Rothesay,
                    who, always guided by some one, was now in a fair way to be entirely guided by
                    her daughter, made no inquiries, but depended entirely upon Olive's wisdom and
                    tenderness.
                Charles Geddes came to Oldchurch. It was quite a new life for Olive—a changed
                    life, too; for now the daily rambles with her friend were less frequent. Instead
                    of which, she used to sit at her window, and watch Sara and Charles taking long strolls in the garden,
                    arm-in-arm, looking so happy, that it was beautiful to see them.
                Who can describe the strange, half-defined thoughts which often brought tears to
                    the young girl's eyes as she watched them thus! It was no jealousy of Sara's
                    deserting her for Charles, still less was it envy; but it was a vague longing—a
                    desiring of love for love's own sake. Not as regarded any individual object, for
                    Olive had never seen any one in whom she felt or fancied the slightest interest.
                    Yet, as she looked on these two young creatures, apparently so bound up in each
                    other, she thought how sweet such a tie must be, and how dearly she herself
                    could love some one. And her yearning was always to love rather
                    than to be loved.
                One morning, when Olive had not seen Sara for a day or two, she was hastily summoned to their usual trysting-place, a
                    spot by the river-side, where the two gardens met, and where an over-arching
                    thorn-tree made a complete bower. Therein Sara stood, looking so pale and
                    serious, that Olive remarked it.
                “Has anything happened?”
                “Nothing—that is, nothing amiss. But oh! Olive, what do you think? Charles put
                    this letter into my hand last night. I have scarcely slept—I feel so agitated—so
                    frightened.”
                And in truth she looked so. Was there ever a very young girl who did not, on
                    receiving her first love-letter?
                It was an era in Olive's life, too. She even trembled, as by her friend's earnest
                    desire she read the missive. It was boyish, indeed, and full of the
                    ultra-romantic devotion of boyish love; but it was sincere, and it touched Olive deeply. She finished it, and leaned
                    against the thorn-tree, pale and agitated as Sara herself.
                “Well, Olive,” said the latter.
                Olive threw her arms round her friend's neck and kissed her, feeling almost ready
                    to cry.
                “And now, dear, tell me what I must do,” said Sara, earnestly; for of late she
                    had positively begun to look up to Olive, so great was the influence of the more
                    thoughtful and higher nature.
                “Do! Why, if you love him, you must tell him so, and give him your whole
                    life-long faith and affection.”
                “Really, Olive, how grave you are! I had no idea of making it such a serious
                    matter. But, poor Charles!—to think that he should love me so very much!”
                “Oh, Sara—Sara!” murmured Olive, “how happy you ought to be!”
                
                The time that followed was a strange period in Olive's life. It was one of
                    considerable excitement, too; she might as well have been in love herself, so
                    deeply did she sympathise with Sara and with Charles. With the latter, even more
                    than with her friend; for there was something in the sincere, reserved, and yet
                    passionate nature of the young sailor, that answered to her own. If he had been
                    her brother, she could not have felt more warmly interested in Charles Geddes
                    and his wooing. And he liked her very much, for Sara's sake first, and then for
                    her own, regarding her also with that gentle compassion which the strong and
                    bold delight to show to the weak. He often called her “his faithful little
                    friend;” and truly she stood his friend in every conceivable way, by soothing
                    Sara's only parent—a most irascible papa—to consent to the engagement, and also
                    by lecturing the gay and coquettish Sara
                    herself into as much good behaviour as could be expected from an affianced
                    damsel of seventeen.
                Charles Geddes went to sea again. Poor little Olive, in her warm sympathies,
                    suffered almost as much as the young man's own betrothed, who, after looking
                    doleful for a week, consoled herself by entering, heart and soul, into the
                    gaieties of the gayest Christmas that ever was spent by the society of
                    Oldchurch. Everywhere Miss Derwent was the belle, and continually did her friend
                    need to remind her of the promise which Olive herself regarded as such a sacred,
                    solemn thing.
                The love-adventure in which she had borne a part had stirred strange depths in
                    the nature of the young girl. She was awakening slowly to the great mystery of
                    woman's life. And when, by degrees, Sara's amusements somewhat alienated their
                    continual intercourse, Olive was thrown back
                    upon her own thoughts more and more. She felt a vague sadness—a something
                    wanting in her heart, which not even her mother's love could supply.
                Mrs. Rothesay saw how dull and pensive she was at times, and with a tender
                    unselfishness contrived that, by Sara Derwent's intervention, Olive should see a
                    little more society; in a very quiet way, though; for her own now delicate
                    health, and Captain Rothesay's will, prevented any regular introduction of their
                    daughter into the world. And sometimes Mrs. Rothesay, pondering on Olive's
                    future, felt glad of this.
                “Poor child! she is not made for the world, or the world for her. Better that she
                    should lead her own quiet life, where she will suffer no pain, and be wounded by
                    no neglect.”
                Yet, nevertheless, it was with a vague pleasure that Mrs. Rothesay dressed
                        Olive for her first ball—a birthday
                    treat—coaxed by Sara Derwent out of her formidable papa, and looked forward to
                    by both young girls for many weeks.
                No one would have believed that the young creature, on whom Mrs. Rothesay gazed
                    with a tenderness, not unmingled with admiration, had been the poor infant from
                    which she once turned with a sensation of pain, almost amounting to disgust.
                    But, learning to love, one learns also to admire. Besides, Olive's defect was
                    less apparent as she grew up, and the extreme sweetness of her countenance
                    almost atoned for her figure. Yet, as the mother fastened her white dress, and
                    arranged the golden curls so as to fall in a shower on her neck and bosom, she
                    sighed heavily.
                Olive did not notice it; she was too much occupied in tying up a rare bouquet—a
                    birthday gift for Sara.
                
                “Well, are you quite satisfied with my dress, dearest mamma?”
                “Not quite;” and Mrs. Rothesay fetched a small mantle of white fur, which she
                    laid round Olive's shoulders. “Wear this, dear; you will look better then—see.”
                    She led her to the mirror, and Olive saw the reflection of her own figure, so
                    effectually disguised, that the head, with its delicate and spiritual beauty,
                    seemed lifting itself out of a white cloud.
                “'Tis a pretty little mantle, but why must I wear it, mamma?—the night is not
                    cold,” said Olive, unconsciously. So little did she think of herself, and so
                    slight had been her intercourse with the world, that the defect in her shape
                    rarely crossed her mind. But the mother, so beautiful herself, and to whom
                    beauty was still of such importance, was struck with bitter pain. She would not
                    even console herself by the 
                        reflec-
                        reflection
                     tion, with which many a one had
                    lately comforted her, that Olive's slight deformity was becoming less
                    perceptible, and that she might, in a great measure, outgrow it in time. Still
                    it was there. As Mrs. Rothesay looked at the swan-like curves of her own figure,
                    and then at her daughter's, she would almost have resigned her own
                    once-cherished, but now disregarded, beauty, could she have bestowed that gift
                    upon her beloved child.
                Without speaking, lest Olive should guess her thoughts, she laid the mantle
                    aside, only, with a trembling affection, she whispered in bidding adieu, “Dear,
                    if you see other girls prettier, or more admired, more noticed than yourself,
                    never mind! Olive is mamma's own pet—always.”
                Oh, blessed adversity! oh, sweetness, taught by suffering! How marvellous was the change wrought in the mother's
                    heart!
                Olive had never in her life before been at an orthodox “private ball,” with
                    chalked floors, rout seats, and a regular band. She was quite dazzled by the
                    transformation thus effected in the Derwents' large, rarely-used dining-room,
                    where she had had many a merry game with little Robert and Lyle. It was perfect
                    fairy-land. The young damsels of Oldchurch—haughty boarding-school belles, whom
                    she had always rather feared, when Sara's hospitality brought her in contact
                    with them—were now grown into perfect court beauties. She was quite alarmed by
                    their dignity, and they scarce noticed poor little Olive at all. Sara, sweeping
                    across the room in all the blaze of her remarkable loveliness, to say nothing of
                    her mother's long-hidden jewels, appeared to
                    the eyes of her little friend a perfect queen of beauty. But the vision came and
                    vanished. Never was there a belle so much in request as the lively Sara.
                Only once, Olive looked at her, and remembered the sailor-boy, who was, perhaps,
                    tossing in some awful night-storm, or lying on the lonely deck, in the midst of
                    the wide Atlantic. And she thought, that when her time came to love and be
                    loved, she would not feel everything quite so lightly as Sara.
                “How pleasant quadrilles must be!” said Olive, as she sat with her favourite
                    Lyle, watching the dancers. Lyle had crept to her, sliding his hand in hers, and
                    looking up to her with a most adoring gaze, as indeed he often did. He had even
                    communicated his intention of marrying her when he grew a man—a determination
                    which excited the great ridicule of his elder brother.
                
                “I like far better to sit here quietly with you,” murmured the faithful little
                    cavalier.
                “Thank you, Lyle; still, they all look so merry, I almost wish some one had asked
                    me to dance.”
                “You dance, Miss Rothesay! What fun! Why nobody would ever dance with you,” cried
                    rude Bob.
                Lyle looked imploringly at his brother: “Hush! you naughty boy! Please, Miss
                    Rothesay, I will dance with you at any time, that is, if you think I am tall
                    enough.”
                “Oh, quite; I am so tiny myself,” answered Olive, laughing; for she took quite a
                    pride in patronising him, as girls of sixteen often affectionately patronise
                    boys some five or six years their junior. “You know, you are to grow up to be my
                    little husband.”
                “Your husband!” repeated Bob, mischievously. “Don't be too sure of getting one
                        at all. What do you think I overheard
                    those girls there say? That you looked just like an old maid; and, indeed, no
                    one would ever care to marry you, because you were—”
                Here Lyle, blushing crimson, stopped his brother's mouth with his little hand;
                    whereat Bob flew into such a passion, that he quite forgot Olive, and all he was
                    about to say, in the excitement of a pugilistic combat with his unlucky cadet. In the midst of which the two
                    belligerents—poor, untaught, motherless lads—were hurried off to bed.
                Their companionship lost, Olive was left very much to her own devices for
                    amusement. Some few young people that she knew came and talked to her for a
                    little while, but they all went back to their singing, dancing, or flirting; and
                    Olive, who seemed to have no gift nor share in either, was left alone. She did
                    not feel this much at first, being occupied in
                    her thoughts and observations on the rest. She took great interest in noticing
                    all around. Her warm heart throbbed in sympathy with many an idle, passing
                    flirtation, which she in her simplicity mistook for a real “attachment.” It
                    seemed as if every one loved, or was loved, except herself. She thought this,
                    blushing as if it were unmaidenliness, when it was only nature speaking in her
                    heart.
                Poor Olive! perhaps it was ill for her that Sara's “love affair” had aroused
                    prematurely these blind gropings after life's great mystery, so often 
                        Too early seen unknown, and known too late.
                    
                “What! tired of dancing already?” cried Sara, flitting to the corner where Olive
                    sat.
                “I have not danced once yet,” Olive answered, rather piteously; for she was a
                    blithe little lassie in the main, and began to long for a quadrille.
                
                “Come—shall I get you a partner?” said Sara, carelessly.
                “No, no; every one is strange to me here. If you please, and if it would not
                    trouble you, Sara, I had much rather dance with you.”
                Sara consented with a tolerably good grace; but there was a slight shadow on her
                    face, which somewhat pained her friend.
                “Is she ashamed of me, I wonder?” thought Olive. “Perhaps, because I am not
                    beautiful. Yet, no one ever told me I was very disagreeable to look
                    at. I will see.”
                As they danced, she watched in the tall mirror Sara's graceful, floating image,
                    and the little pale figure that moved beside her. There was a
                    contrast! Olive, who inherited all her mother's love of beauty, spiritualised by
                    the refinement of a dawning artist-soul, felt keenly the longing regret after
                    physical perfection. She went through the dance with less spirit, and in her heart there rung the idle echoes of some old
                    song she knew: 
                        I see the courtly ladies pass, with their dark and shining hair;
                        And I coldly turn aside to weep—“Oh, would that I were fair!”
                    
                The quadrille ended, she hid herself in her old corner; and Sara, whose
                    goodnature led her to perform this sacrifice to friendship, seemed to smile more
                    pleasantly and affectionately when it was over. At least Olive thought so. She
                    did not see her beautiful idol again for some time; and feeling little interest
                    in any other girl, and none at all in the awkward Oldchurch “beaux,” she took
                    consolation in her own harmless fashion. This was hiding herself under the thick
                    curtains, and looking out of the window at the moon.
                —Sara's voice, close by, talking to a young girl whom Olive knew. But Olive was
                        too shy to join them. She greatly
                    preferred her friend, the moon.
                “I quite smiled to see you dancing with that little Olive Rothesay, Miss Derwent.
                    For my part, I hate dancing with girls—and as for her—But I suppose
                    you wanted to show the contrast between you.”
                “Nay, that's ill-natured,” answered Sara. “She is a sweet little creature, and my
                    very particular friend.”
                Here Olive, blushing and happy, doubted whether she ought not to come out of the
                    curtains. It was almost wrong to listen—only her beloved Sara often said she had
                    no secret in the world that she had not told to Olive.
                “Yes, I know she is your friend, and Mr. Charles Geddes' great friend too; if I
                    were you, I should be almost jealous.”
                “Jealous of Olive—how very comical!” and the silver laugh was a little
                        scornful. “To think of Olive's stealing
                    any girl's lover! She, who will probably never have one in all her life—poor
                    thing!”
                “Of course not; nobody would fall in love with her! But there is a waltz, I must
                    run away. Will you come?”
                “Presently—when I have looked in the other room for Olive.”
                “Olive is here,” said a timid voice. “Oh, Sara, forgive me if I have done wrong;
                    but I can't keep anything from you. It would grieve me to think I heard what you
                    were saying, and never told you of it.”
                Sara appeared confused, and with a quick impulse kissed and fondled her little
                    friend: “You are not vexed, or pained, Olive?”
                “Oh, no—that is, not much; it would be very silly if I were. But,” she added,
                    doubtfully, “I wish you would tell me one thing, Sara—not that I am proud, or
                    vain; but still, I should like to know—why do I seem different from other girls? Why did you and Jane Ormond say just now
                    that nobody would ever love me?”
                “Don't talk so, my little pet,” said Sara, looking pained and puzzled. Yet,
                    instinctively, her eye glanced to the mirror, where their two reflections stood.
                    So did Olive's.
                “Yes, I know,” she murmured, “I am little, and plain, and in figure very
                    awkward—not graceful, like you. Would that make people hate me, Sara?”
                “Not hate you; but—”
                “Well, go on—nay, I will know all!” said Olive, firmly; though,
                    gradually, a thought—long subdued—began to dawn painfully in her mind.
                “I assure you, dear,” began Sara, hesitatingly, “it does not signify to me, or to
                    any of those who care for you; you are such a gentle little creature, we forget
                    it all in time. But perhaps with strangers, especially with men, who think so much about beauty, this
                    defect—”
                She paused, laying her arm round Olive's shoulders—even affectionately, as if she
                    herself were much moved. But Olive, with a cheek that whitened and a lip that
                    quivered more and more, looked resolutely at her own shape imaged in the
                    glass.
                “I see, as I never saw before—so little I thought of myself. Yes, it is quite
                    true—quite true.”
                She spoke beneath her breath, and her eyes seemed fascinated into a hard, cold
                    gaze. Sara became almost frightened.
                “Do not look so, my dear girl; I did not say that it was a positive
                        deformity.”
                Olive faintly shuddered: “Ah, that is the word! I understand it all now.”
                She paused a moment, covering her face. But very soon she sat down, so quiet and
                    pale that Sara was deceived.
                
                “You do not mind it, then, Olive—you are not angry with me?” she said,
                    soothingly.
                “Angry with you—how could I be?”
                “Then you will come back with me, and we will have another dance.”
                “Oh, no, no!” And the cheerful goodnatured voice seemed to make Olive shrink with
                    pain. “Sara, dear Sara, let me go home!”
            
            
                
                CHAPTER XIII.
                “WELL, my love, was the ball as pleasant as you expected?” said
                    Mrs. Rothesay, when Olive drew the curtains, and roused her invalid mother to
                    the usual early breakfast, received from no hands but hers.
                Olive answered quietly, “Every one said it was pleasant.”
                “But you,” returned the mother, with an anxiety she could scarce disguise—“who
                    talked to you?—who danced with you?”
                “No one, except Sara.”
                “Poor child!” was the half involuntary sigh;
                    and Mrs. Rothesay drew her daughter to her with deep tenderness.
                It was a strange fate, that made the once slighted child almost the only thing in
                    the world to which Sybilla Rothesay now clung. And yet, so rich, so full, had
                    grown the springs of maternal love, long hidden in her nature, that she would
                    not have exchanged their sweetness to be again the petted, wilful, beautiful
                    darling of society, as she was at Stirling. The neglected wife—the often-ailing
                    mother—dependent on her daughter's tenderness, was happier and nearer to heaven
                    than she had ever been in her life.
                Mrs. Rothesay regarded Olive earnestly. “You look as ill as if you had been up
                    all night; and yet you came to rest tolerably early, and I thought you slept,
                    you lay so quiet. Was it so, darling?”
                “Not quite; I was thinking,” said Olive,
                    truthfully, though her face flushed, for she would fain have kept her bitter
                    thoughts from her mother. Just then, Mrs. Rothesay started at the sound of the
                    hall-bell.
                “Is that your father come home? He said he might, to-day or to-morrow.” And she
                    positively trembled.
                Olive went down-stairs. It was only a letter, to say Captain Rothesay would
                    return that day; and would bring—most rare circumstance!—some guests to visit
                    them. Olive seemed to shrink painfully at this news.
                “What, my child, are you not pleased?—It will make the house less dull for
                    you.”
                “No, no—I do not wish; O mamma! if I could only shut myself up, and never see any
                    one but you—” And Olive turned very pale. At last, resolutely trying to speak
                    without any show of trouble, she 
                        con-
                        continued
                     tinued—“I have found out something
                    that I never knew—at least, never thought of before—that I am different to other
                    girls. Oh, mother! am I then so painful to look upon? shall I, indeed, cause
                    people to dislike me wherever I go?”
                She spoke with much agitation. Mrs. Rothesay burst into tears.
                “Oh, Olive! how wretched you make me, to talk thus. Unhappy mother that I am! Why
                    should Heaven have punished me thus?”
                “Punished you, mother?”
                “Nay, my child—my poor innocent child! I did not mean that,” cried Mrs. Rothesay;
                    embracing her with a passionate revulsion of feeling.
                But the word was said,—to linger, for ever after, on Olive's mind. It brought
                    back the look once written on her childish memory— grown faint, but never quite erased—her father's
                    first look. She understood it now.
                Mrs. Rothesay continued weeping, and Olive had to cast aside all other feelings
                    in the care of soothing her mother. She succeeded at last; but she learnt at the
                    same time that on this one subject there must be silence between them for ever.
                    It seemed, also, to her sensitive nature, as if every tear and every complaining
                    word were a reproach to the mother that bore her. Henceforth her bitter thoughts
                    must be wrestled with alone.
                She did so wrestle with them. She walked out into her favourite meadow—now lying
                    in the silent, frost-bound mistiness of a January day. It was where she had
                    often been in summer with Sara, and Charles Geddes, and the little boys. Now
                    everything seemed so wintry and lonely. What if her own future life were so—one long winter-day, wherein was neither
                    beauty, gladness, nor love?
                “I am ‘deformed.’ That was Sara's own word,” murmured Olive to
                    herself. “If this is felt by one who loves me, what must I appear to the world?
                    Will not all shrink from me—and even those who pity, turn away in pain. As for
                    loving me—”
                Thinking thus, Olive's fancy began to count, almost in despair, all those whose
                    affection she had ever known. There was Elspie, there were her parents. Yet, the
                    love of both father and mother—how sweet soever, now—had not blessed her always.
                    She remembered the time when it was not there.
                “Alas! that I should have been, even to them, a burden—a pang!” cried the girl,
                    in the first outburst of suffering, which became ten times keener, because
                    concealed. Her vivid fancy even exaggerated the truth. She saw in herself a poor
                    deformed being, shut out from all natural
                    ties—a woman, to whom friendship would be given but in kindly pity; to whom
                    love—that blissful dream in which she had of late indulged—would be denied for
                    evermore. How hard seemed her doom! If it were for months only, or even years;
                    but, to bear for a whole life this withering ban—never to be freed from it,
                    except through death! And her lips unconsciously repeated the bitter murmur, “O
                    God! why hast thou made me thus?”
                It was scarcely uttered before her heart trembled at its impiety. And then the
                    current of her thoughts changed. Those mysterious yearnings which had haunted
                    her throughout childhood, until they had grown fainter under the influence of
                    earthly ties and pleasures—returned to her now. God's immeasurable Infinite rose
                    before her in glorious serenity. What was one brief lifetime to the ages of
                        eternity? She felt it: she, in her
                    weakness—her untaught childhood—her helplessness—felt that her poor deformed
                    body enshrined a living soul. A soul that could look on Heaven, and on whom
                    Heaven also looked—not like man, with scorn or loathing, but with a Divine
                    tenderness that had power to lift the mortal into communion with the
                    immortal.
                Olive Rothesay seemed to have grown years older in that hour of solitary musing.
                    She walked homewards through the silent fields, over which the early night was
                    falling—night coming, as it were, in the midst of day, where the only light was
                    given by the white, cold snow. To Olive this was a symbol, too—a token that the
                    freezing sorrow which had fallen on her path, might palely light her on her
                    earthly way. Strange things for a young girl to dream of! But they whom Heaven
                    teaches are sometimes called—Samuel-like—while to them still pertains the childish ephod and the temple-porch.
                Passing on, with footsteps silent and solemn as her own heart, Olive came to the
                    street, on the verge of the town, where was her own dwelling and Sara's. From
                    habit she looked in at the Derwents' house. It had all that cheerful brightness
                    given by a blazing fire, glimmering through windows not yet closed. Olive could
                    plainly distinguish the light shining on the crimson wall; even the merry faces
                    of the circle round the hearth. And, as if to chant the chorus of so sweet a
                    scene, there broke out on the clear frosty air the distant carillon of
                    Oldchurch-bells—marriage-bells, too—signifying that not far off was dawning
                    another scene of love and hope; that, somewhere in the parish, was celebrated
                    the “coming home” of a bride.
                The young creature, born with a woman's longings—longings neither unholy or
                        impure, after the love which is the
                    religion of a woman's heart—the sweetness of home, which is the heaven of a
                    woman's life—felt that from both she was shut out for ever.
                “Not for me—alas! not for me,” she murmured; and her head drooped, and it seemed
                    as though a cold hand were laid on her breast, saying, “Grow still, and throb no
                    more!”
                Then, lifting her eyes, she saw shining far up in the sky, beyond the mist and
                    the frost and the gloom, one little star—the only one. With a long sigh, her
                    soul seemed to pass upward in prayer.
                “Oh God! since Thou hast willed it so,—if in this world I must walk alone, do
                    Thou walk with me! If I must know no human love, fill my soul with Thine! If
                    earthly joy be far from me, give me that peace of Heaven which passeth all
                    understanding!”
                
                And so—mournful, yet serene—Olive Rothesay reached her home.
                She found her friend there. Sara looked confused at seeing her, and appeared to
                    try, with the unwonted warmth of her greeting, to efface from Olive's mind the
                    remembrance of what had happened the previous evening. But Olive, for the first
                    time, shrank from these tokens of affection.
                “Even Sara's love may be only compassion,” she bitterly thought; and her calm
                    endurance was again changed into grief and humiliation. She betrayed neither;
                    for her father's nature was in the girl—his self-command—his proud reserve. Sara
                    Derwent only thought her rather silent and cold. Little she wondered at this,
                    though her regret rose at having been so foolish as to talk to her poor little
                    friend in the way she did.
                There was a constraint on both—so much so that
                    Olive heard, without testifying much pain, news which a few days before would
                    have grieved her to the heart. This visit was an adieu. Sara had been suddenly
                    sent for by her grandfather, who lived in a distant county; and the summons
                    entailed a parting of some weeks—perhaps, longer.
                “But I shall not forget you, Olive. I shall write to you constantly. It will be
                    my sole amusement in the dull place I am going to. Why, nobody ever used to
                    enter my grandfather's house, except the parson, who lived some few miles off.
                    Poor old soul! I used to set fire to his wig, and hide his spectacles. But he is
                    dead now, I hear, and there has come in his place a young clergyman. Shall I
                    strike up a little flirtation with him, eh—Olive?”
                But Olive was in no jesting mood. She only shook her head.
                Mrs. Rothesay looked with admiration on Sara.
                    “What a blithe young creature you are, my dear. You win everybody's liking. I
                    wish Olive were only half as merry as you.”
                Another arrow in poor Olive's heart!
                “Well—we must try to make her so when I come back,” said Sara, affectionately. “I
                    shall have tales enough to tell; perhaps, about that young curate. Nay, don't
                    frown, Olive. My cousin says he is a Scotsman born—and you like Scotland. Only
                    his father was Welsh, and he has a horrid Welsh name—Gwyrdyr, or Gwynne, or
                    something like it. But I'll give you all information.”
                And then she rose—still laughing—to bid adieu; which seemed so long a farewell,
                    when the friends had never yet been parted but for one brief day. In saying it,
                    Olive felt how dear to her had been this girl—this first idol of her warm heart.
                    And then there came a thought almost like terror. Though fated to live unloved, she could not keep herself
                    from loving. And if so, how would she bear the perpetual void—the yearning,
                    never to be fulfilled?
                She fell on Sara's neck and wept. “You do care for me a little—only a
                    little.”
                “A great deal—as much as ever I can, seeing I have so many people to care for,”
                    answered Sara, trying to laugh away the tears that—from sympathy, perhaps—sprang
                    to her eyes.
                “Ah, true! And everybody cares for you. No wonder,” answered Olive.
                “Now, little Olive, why do you put on that grave face? Are you going to lecture
                    me about not flirting with that stupid curate, and always remembering Charles.
                    Oh! no fear of that.”
                “I hope not,” said Olive, quietly. She could not talk more, and they bade each
                    other good-bye; perhaps not quite so 
                        enthu-
                        enthusiastically
                     siastically as they might have done
                    a week ago, but still with much affection. Sara had reached the door, when with
                    a sudden impulse she came back again.
                “Olive, I am a foolish, thoughtless girl; but if ever I pained you in any way,
                    don't think of it again. Kiss me—will you—once more?”
                Olive did so, clinging to her passionately. When Sara went away, she felt as
                    though the first flower had perished in her garden, the first star had melted
                    from her sky. It seemed a foreshadowing of that lonely fate, the portion of some
                    humble ones, unblessed with the power to inspire other hearts with their own
                    warmth. Alas! for that love which ever sees its objects come and go, brighten
                    and fade, while it alone endures, and its very constancy becomes its deepest
                    woe. Yet, not so. Greater—far greater—than the rolling, changing planets, is the
                        sun; that burns on in its eternal
                    loneliness, an emblem of that One Love which, from its infinite solitude, guides
                    and sustains the universe.
                Sara gone, Olive went back to her old dreamy life. The romance of first
                    friendship seemed to have been swept away like a morning cloud. From Sara there
                    came no letters—save a brief one, during her first week at Waterton. Olive wrote
                    once or twice, even thrice. But a sense of wounded feeling prevented her writing
                    again. Some tidings she gained from Robert and Lyle, that their sister was quite
                    well, and very merry. Then, over all the dream of sweet affection fell a cold
                    silence.
                It might have utterly frozen so young and sensitive a heart, but that in Olive's
                    own home were arising many cares. A great change came over her father. His
                    economical habits became those of the wildest extravagance— extravagance in which his wife and daughter were not
                    likely to share. Little they saw of it either, save during his rare visits to
                    his home. Then, he either spent his evenings out, or else dining, smoking,
                    drinking—horrible orgies of dissipated men—disturbed the quiet house at
                    Oldchurch.
                Many a time, till long after midnight, the mother and child sat listening to the
                    gay, tumult of voices below; clinging to each other, pale and sad. Not that
                    Captain Rothesay was unkind, or that either had any fear for him, for he had
                    always been a strict and temperate man. But it pained them to think that any
                    society seemed sweeter to him than that of his wife and daughter—that any place
                    was become dearer to him than his home.
                One night, when Mrs. Rothesay appeared exhausted, either with weariness or sorrow
                    of heart, Olive persuaded her mother to go to
                    rest, while she herself sat up for her father.
                “Nay, let some of the servants do that, not you, my child.”
                But Olive, innocent as she was of all worldly guile, had accidentally seen the
                    footman smile rudely when he spoke of “master coming home last night;” and a
                    vague thought struck her, that such late hours were discreditable in the head of
                    a family. Her father should not be mocked in his servants' eyes.
                She dismissed the household and waited up for him alone. Twelve—one—two. The
                    hours went by like long years. Heavily at first drooped her poor drowsy eyes,
                    and then all weariness was dispelled by a feeling of loneliness—an impression of
                    coming sorrow. At last, when this sense was gradually merging into fear, she
                    heard the sound of the swinging gate, and her father's knock at the door.
                
                A loud, unsteady, angry knock—one that made her feet fly swifter even than by the
                    impulse of affection.
                “Why do you stay up for me? I don't want anybody to sit up,” grumbled Captain
                    Rothesay, without looking at her.
                “But I liked to wait for you, papa.”
                “What! is that you, Olive?” and he stepped in with a lounging heavy gait—that of
                    a person overpowered with fatigue as his young daughter thought.
                “Did you not see me before? It was I who opened the door.”
                “Oh I yes—but—I was thinking of something else,” he said, throwing himself into
                    the study-chair, and trying with an effort to seem just as usual. “You are—a
                    very good girl—I'm much obliged to you. The pleasure is—I may truly say—on both
                    sides.” And he energetically struck the table with his hand.
                Olive thought this an odd form of speech; but
                    her father's manner was grown so changed of late—sometimes he seemed quite in
                    high spirits, even jocose—as he did now.
                “I am glad to see you not much tired, papa. I thought you were—you walked so
                    wearily when you first came in.”
                “I tired? nonsense—child! I have had the merriest evening in the world. I'll have
                    another to-morrow, for I've asked then all to dine here. We'll give dinner
                    parties to all the county.”
                “Papa,” said Olive timidly, “will that be quite right, after what you told me of
                    your being now so much poorer.”
                “Did I? Pshaw! I don't remember. However, I am a rich man now; richer than I have
                    ever been.”
                “I am so glad; because then, dear papa, you know you need not be so much away
                    from home, or weary yourself with the
                    speculations you told me 
                        off
                        of
                    ; but come and live quietly with us.”
                Her father laughed loudly. “Foolish little girl! your notion of quietness would
                    not suit a man like me. Take my word for it, Olive, home serves as a fantastic
                    dream till five-and-twenty, and then means nothing at all. A man's home is the
                    world.”
                “Is it?”
                “Ay, as I intend to show to you. By-the-bye, I shall give up this stupid place,
                    and enter into society. Your mother will like it, of course; and you, as my only
                    child—eh—what did I say?” here he stopped hastily, with a blank, frightened
                    look—then repeated, “Yes—you, my only child, will be properly introduced to the
                    world. Why, you'll be quite an heiress, my girl,” continued he, with an excited
                    jocularity that frightened Olive. “And the world always courts such; who knows but that you may marry in
                    spite of—”
                “Oh, no—never!” interrupted Olive, turning away with bitter pain.
                “Come, don't mind it,” continued her father, with a reckless indifference to her
                    feelings, quite unusual to him. “Why—my little sensible girl—you are better than
                    any beauty in England; beauties are all fools, or worse.”
                And he laughed so loud, so long, that Olive was seized with a great horror, that
                    absorbed even her own individual suffering. Was her father mad? Alas! there is a
                    madness worse than disease, a voluntary madness, by which a man—longing at any
                    price for excitement or oblivion—“puts an enemy into his mouth to steal away his
                    brains.” This was the foe—the stealthy-footed demon, that had at last come to
                    overmaster the brave and noble Angus Rothesay.
                    As yet it ruled him not—he was no sot; but his daughter saw enough to know that
                    the fiend was nigh upon him—that this night he was even in its grasp.
                It is only the noblest kind of affection that can separate the sinner from the
                    sin, and even while condemning, pity. Fallen as he was, Olive Rothesay looked on
                    her father mournfully—intreatingly. She could not speak.
                He seemed annoyed, and slightly confounded. “Come, simpleton, why do you stare at
                    me—there is nothing the matter. Go away to bed.”
                Olive did not move.
                “Make haste—what are you waiting for? Nay, stay; 'tis a cold night—just leave out
                    the keys of the sideboard, will you, there's a good little housekeeper,” he
                    said, coaxingly.
                Olive turned away in disgust, but only for a moment. “In case you should want 
                        any-
                        anything
                     thing, let me stay a little longer,
                    papa; I am not tired, and I have some work to do—suppose I go and fetch it.”
                She went into the inner room, slowly. quietly; and when safe out of sight, burst
                    into tears of such shame and terror as she had never before known. Then she sat
                    down to think. Her father thus; her mother feeble in mind and body; no one in
                    the wide world to trust to but herself; no one to go to for comfort and
                    counsel—none, save Heaven! She sank on her knees and prayed. As she rose, the
                    angel in the daughter's soul was stronger than the demon in the father's.
                Olive waited a little, and then walked softly into the other room. Some brandy,
                    left on the sideboard, had attracted Captain Rothesay's sight. He had reached it
                    with a noiseless hand, as if the act still conveyed to his dulled brain a
                    consciousness of degradation. Once he looked round suspiciously; alas, the father dreaded his daughter's eye! Then
                    stealthily standing with his face to the fire, he began to drink the tempting
                    poison.
                It was taken out of his hand! So noiseless was Olive's step, so gentle her
                    movement, that he stood dumb, astonished, as though in the presence of some
                    apparition. And, in truth, the girl looked like a spirit; for her face was very
                    white, and her lips seemed as though they never had uttered, and never could
                    utter, one living sound.
                Father and daughter stood for some moments thus gazing at each other; and then
                    Captain Rothesay threw himself into his chair, with a forced laugh.
                “What's the matter, little fool? Cannot your father take care of himself? Give me
                    the brandy again.”
                But she held it fast, and made no answer.
                “Olive, I say—do you insult me thus?” and his
                    voice rose in anger. “Go to bed, I command you! Will you not?”
                “No!” The refusal was spoken softly—very softly—but it expressed indomitable
                    firmness; and there was something in the girl's resolute spirit, before which
                    that of the father quailed. With a sudden transition, which showed that the
                    drink had already somewhat overpowered his brain, he melted into complaints.
                “You are very rude to your poor father; you—almost the only comfort he has
                    left!”
                This touch even of maudlin sentiment went direct to Olive's heart. She clung to
                    him, kissed him, begged his forgiveness, nay, even wept over him. He ceased to
                    rage, and sat in a sullen silence for many minutes. Meanwhile Olive took away
                    every temptation from his sight. Then she roused him gently.
                
                “Now, papa, it is time to go to bed. Pray, come up-stairs.”
                He—the calm, gentlemanlike, Captain Rothesay—burst into a storm of passion that
                    would have disgraced a boor. “How dare you order me about in this manner! Cannot
                    I do as I like, without being controlled by you—a mere chit of a girl—a very
                    child.”
                “I know I am only a child,” answered Olive, meekly. “Do not be angry with me,
                    papa; do not speak unkindly to your poor little daughter.”
                “My daughter! how dare you call yourself so, you white-faced, mean-looking
                    hunchback—”
                At the word, Olive recoiled—a strong shudder ran through her frame; she moaned
                    one long, sobbing sigh, and no more.
                Her father, shocked, and a little sobered, paused in his cruel speech. For
                    minutes, they remained—he leaning back with a
                    stupified air—she standing before him; her face drooped, and covered with her
                    hands.
                “Olive!” he muttered, in a repentant, humbled tone.
                “Yes, papa.”
                “I am quite ready. If you like, I'll go to bed now.”
                Without speaking, she lighted him upstairs—nay led him; for, to his
                    bitter shame, the guidance was not unneeded. When she left him, he had the grace
                    to whisper—
                “Child, you are not vexed about anything I said?”
                She looked sorrowfully into his hot, fevered face, and stroked his arm with her
                    pale hand. “No—no—not vexed at all! You could not help it, poor father!”
                She heard her mother's feeble, sleepless voice speaking to him as he entered, and
                        saw his door close. Long she watched
                    there, until beneath it she perceived not one glimmer of light. Then she crept
                    away, only murmuring to herself—
                “God! teach me to endure!”
            
            
                
                CHAPTER XIV.
                “WHAT is the matter with the child today?” said Captain
                    Rothesay to his wife, with whom, oh, rare circumstance! he was sitting tête-à-tête. But this, and a few other alterations
                    for the better, had taken place in consequence of his longer stay at home than
                    usual, during which an unseen influence had been busily at work. Poor Olive! Was
                    it not well for her, that, to temper the first shock of her bitter destiny,
                    there should arise, in the dreary blank of the future, duties so holy, that they
                    stood almost in the place of joys?
                “How dull the girl seems!” again observed Captain Rothesay, looking after his
                        daughter, with a tenderness of which he
                    afterwards appeared rather ashamed.
                “Dull, is she?” said the mother; “oh, very likely, poor child! She is grieving to
                    lose her chief friend and companion, Miss Derwent. News came to her this morning
                    that Sara is about to be married.”
                “Oh, indeed!” and Captain Rothesay made an attempt at departure. He hated
                    gossiping, even of the most harmless kind. But his wife, pleased that he
                    condescended to talk to her at all, tried to amuse him in her own easy way.
                “Poor Sara! I am glad she is going to have a home of her own—though she is young
                    enough to marry. But I believe it was a very sudden affair; and the gentleman
                    fell so desperately in love with her.”
                “More fool he!” muttered Captain Rothesay.
                “Nay, he is not a fool at all; he is a very
                    sensible, clever man, and a clergyman too; Miss Derwent said so in her brief
                    note to Olive. But she did not mention where he lived; little indeed she told,
                    but that his name was Gwynne—”
                Captain Rothesay turned round quickly.
                “—And Sara speaks of his mother being a stiff old Scotswoman. Ah, you are
                    listening now, my dear. Let me see, I think Miss Derwent mentions her maiden
                    name. The silly girl makes quite a boast of her lover's ancient family, on the
                    maternal side.”
                “There is no silliness in that, I hope, Mrs. Rothesay?”
                “Certainly not—was I not always proud of yours?” said the wife, with a meekness
                    not newly learnt. She hunted in her reticule for Sara's letter, and read.
                “Ah, here is the name—Alison Balfour: do you know it?”
                “I did once, when I was a boy; but that is long
                    ago,” said Captain Rothesay, in a suppressed tone.
                “Stay! do not go away in that hasty manner. Pray, talk to me a little more,
                    Angus; it is so dull to be confined to this sickroom. Tell me of this Alison
                    Balfour; you know, I should like to hear about your friends.”
                “Should you?—that is something new. If it had been always so—if you had indeed
                    made my interests yours, Sybilla!” There was a touch of regret and old
                    tenderness in his voice. She thought he was kind on account of her illness, and
                    thanked him warmly. But the thanks sent him back to his usual cold self; he did
                    not like to have his weakness noticed.
                Mrs. Rothesay understood neither one state of feeling nor the other, so she said,
                    cheerfully, “Come, now for the story of Alison Balfour.”
                
                “There is no story to tell. She was merely a young companion of my aunt's, Flora.
                    I knew her for some years—in fact, until she married Mr. Gwynne. She was a noble
                    woman.”
                “Really, Angus, I shall grow jealous,” said Mrs. Rothesay, half in jest, half in
                    earnest. “She must have been an old love of yours.”
                Her husband frowned. “Folly, Sybilla! She was a woman, and I a school-boy!”
                And yet the words galled him, for they were not far off the truth. True, Alison
                    was old enough to have been his mother; but many a precocious lad of sixteen
                    conceives a similar romantic passion, and Angus Rothesay had really been very
                    much in love, as he thought, with Alison Balfour.
                Even when he quitted the room, and walked out into the road, his thoughts went
                    backward many years; picturing the old, dull
                    mansion, whose only brightness had come with her presence. He remembered how he
                    used to walk by her side, in lonely mountain rambles—he a little boy, and she a
                    grown woman; and how proud he was, when she stooped her tall stature to lean
                    upon his arm. Once, she kissed him; and he lay awake all night, and many a night
                    after, dreaming of the remembered bliss. And, as he grew a youth, what delicious
                    sweetness in these continued dreams! what pride to think himself “in love”—and
                    with such a woman! Folly it was—hopeless folly—for she had been long betrothed
                    to one she loved. But that was not Owen Gwynne. Alas! Alison, like many another
                    proud, passionate woman, had married in sudden anger, thereby wrecking her whole
                    life! When she did so, Angus Rothesay lost his boyish dream. He had already
                    begun to find out that it was only a dream;
                    though his first fancy's idol never ceased to be to him a memory full of all
                    that was noble and beautiful in womanhood.
                For many years, this enchanted portion of Captain Rothesay's past life had rarely
                    crossed his mind; but when it did, it was always with a half-unconscious
                    thought, that he himself might have been a better and a happier man, had his own
                    beautiful Sybilla been more like Alison Balfour.
                This chance news of her awakened memories connected with other scenes and
                    characters, which had gradually melted away from Angus Rothesay's life, or been
                    enveloped in the mist of selfishness and worldliness which had gathered over it,
                    and over him. He thought of the old uncle, Sir Andrew Rothesay, whose pride he
                    had been; of the sweet aunt Flora, whose pale beauty had bent over his cradle
                    with a love almost like a mother's, save that it was so very, very sad. One had
                        died estranged; the other— He would not
                    let many weeks pass before he sought out Miss Flora Rothesay: that he was
                    determined on! And, to do so, the best plan would be, first to go and see
                    Alison—Mrs. Gwynne.
                Captain Rothesay always kept his intentions to himself, and transacted his
                    matters alone. Therefore, without the aid of wife or daughter, he soon
                    discovered in what region lay Mr. Gwynne's curacy, and determined to hasten his
                    customary journey to London, that he might visit the place on his way.
                The night before his departure came. It was really a melancholy evening; for he
                    had stayed at home so long, and been most of the time what his wife called “so
                    good,” that she quite regretted his going. The more so, as he was about to
                    travel by the awful railway—then newly established—which, in the opinion of poor
                    Mrs. Rothesay, with her delicate nerves and easily-roused terrors, entailed on
                    him the certainty of being killed. She pleaded
                    so much and so anxiously—even to the last—that when, in order to start at
                    daybreak, he bade “goodbye” to her and Olive overnight, Captain Rothesay was
                    softened even to tenderness.
                “Do you really care so much about me, Sybilla?” said he, half mournfully.
                She did not spring to his arms, like the young wife at Stirling, but she kissed
                    his hand affectionately, and called him “Angus!”
                “Olive!” said the father, when, having embraced his wife, he now turned to his
                    daughter, “Olive, my child! take care of your mother! I shall be at home soon,
                    and we will be very happy again—all three!”
                As they ascended the staircase, they saw him watching them from below. Olive felt
                    so content, even though her father was going away. She kissed her hand to him,
                    with a blithe gesture, and then saw him go in and close the door. When the house
                    sank into quietness, a curious feeling
                    oppressed Captain Rothesay. It seemed to take rise in his wife's infectious
                    fears.
                “Women are always silly,” he argued to himself. “Why should I dread any danger?
                    The railway is safe as a coach—and yet, that affair of poor Huskisson! Pooh!
                    what a fool I am!”
                But even while he mocked it, the vague presentiment appeared to take form in his
                    mind; and sitting, the only person awake in the slumbering house, where no sound
                    broke the stillness, except the falling of a few cinders, and the occasional
                    noise of a mouse behind the wainscoat, somewhat of the superstitions of his
                    northern youth came over him. His countenance became grave, and he sank into
                    deep thought.
                It is a trite saying, that every man has that in his heart, which, if known,
                    would make all his fellow-creatures hate him. Was it this evil spirit which now struggled in Captain Rothesay's
                    breast, and darkened his face with storms of passion, remorse, or woe? He gave
                    no utterance to them in words. If any secret there were, he would not trust it
                    even to the air. But, at times, his mute lips writhed; his cheeks burned, and
                    grew ghastly. Sometimes, too, he wore a cowed and humbled look, as on the night
                    when his daughter had stood like a pure angel to save him from the abyss, on the
                    brink of which he trod.
                She had saved him, apparently. That night's shame had never occurred again.
                    Slowly, his habits were changing, and his tastes becoming home-like. But still
                    his lonely hours betokened some secret hidden in his soul—a secret which, if
                    known, might have accounted for his having plunged into uproarious excitement,
                    or drunken oblivion.
                At length, as by a violent effort, Angus Rothesay sat down and began to write.
                        He wrote for several hours—though
                    frequently his task was interrupted by long reveries, and by fits of vehement
                    emotion. When he had finished, he carefully sealed up what he had written, and
                    placed it in a secret drawer of his desk. Then he threw himself on a sofa, to
                    sleep during the brief time that intervened before daybreak.
                In the grey of the morning, when he stood despatching a hasty breakfast, he was
                    startled by a light touch on his arm.
                “Little Olive!—why, I thought you were fast asleep.”
                “I could not sleep when papa was going away; so I rose and dressed. You will not
                    be angry?”
                “Angry—no!” He stooped down and kissed her, more affectionately even than was his
                    wont. But he was hasty and fidgety, as most men are when starting on a journey.
                    They were both too busy for more words, until
                    the few minutes during which he sat down to wait for the carriage. Then he took
                    his daughter on his knee—an act of fatherly tenderness rather rare with him.
                “I wish you were not going, or that I were going with you, papa,” Olive
                    whispered, nestling to him, in a sweet, childish way, though she was almost a
                    woman, now. “How tired you look! You have not been in bed all night.”
                “No; I had writing to do.” As he spoke, his countenance darkened. “Olive,” he
                    said, looking at her with sorrowful, questioning eyes.
                “Well, dear papa.”
                “Nothing—nothing. Is the carriage ready?”
                “Not yet. You will have time just for one little thing—'twill take only a
                    minute,” said Olive, persuasively.
                “What is it, little one?”
                
                “Mamma is asleep—she was tired and ill; but if you would run up-stairs, and kiss
                    her once again before you go, it would make her so much happier—I know it
                    would.”
                “Poor Sybilla!” he muttered, remorsefully, and quitted the room, slowly—not
                    meeting his daughter's eyes; but when he came back, he took her in his arms,
                    very tenderly.
                “Olive, my child in whom I trust, always remember I did love you—you and your
                    mother.”
                These were the last words she heard him utter, ere he went away.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER XV.
                CAPTAIN ROTHESAY had intended to make the business-excursion
                    wait on that of pleasure—if pleasure the visit could be called, which was
                    entered on from duty, and would doubtless awaken many painful associations; but
                    he changed his mind, and it was not until his return from London, that he stayed
                    on the way, and sought out the village of Harbury.
                Verbal landscape painting is rarely interesting to the general reader; and as
                    Captain Rothesay was certainly not devoted to the picturesque, it seems idle to
                    follow him during his ten-mile ride from the nearest railway station to the place which he discovered was
                    that of Mrs. Gwynne's abode, and where her son was “perpetual curate.”
                Her son! It seemed very strange to imagine Alison a mother; and yet, while he
                    thought, Angus Rothesay almost laughed at himself for his folly. His boyish
                    fancy had, perforce, faded at seventeen, and he was now—pshaw—he was somewhere
                    above forty. As for Mrs. Gwynne, sixty would, probably, be nearer her age. Yet,
                    not having seen her since she married, he never could think of her but as Alison
                    Balfour.
                As before observed, Captain Rothesay was by no means keenly susceptible to beauty
                    of scenery; otherwise, he would often have been attracted from his meditations
                    by that through which he passed. Lovely woodlands, just bursting into the
                    delicate green of spring; deep, still streams, flowing through meadows, studded
                    with cattle; forest-roads shadowed with
                    stately trees, and so little frequented, that the green turf spread from hedge
                    to hedge, and the primroses and bluebells sprung up almost in the pathway. All
                    these composed a picture of rural loveliness, which is peculiar to England, and
                    chiefly to that part of England where Harbury is situated. Captain Rothesay
                    scarcely noticed it, until, pausing to consider his track, he saw in the
                    distance a church upon a hill. Beautiful and peaceful it looked—its ancient
                    tower rising out against the sky, and the evening sun shining on its windows and
                    gilded vane.
                “That must surely be my landmark,” thought Captain Rothesay; and he made an
                    inquiry to that effect of a man passing by.
                “Aye, aye, measter,” was the answer, in rather unintelligible Doric; “thot bees
                    Harbury Church, as sure as moy name's John Dent; and thot red house—conna ye
                    see't?—thot's our parson's.”
                
                Prompted by curiosity, Rothesay observed—“Oh! Mr. Gwynne's. He is quite a young
                    man, I believe? Do you like him—you good folk hereabouts?”
                “Some on us dun, and some on us dunna. He's not much of a parson, though; he
                    wunna send yer to sleep wi' his long preachings. But oi say the mon's a good
                    mon: he'll coom and see yer when you're bad, an' talk t' ye by th' hour; though
                    he dunna talk oot o' th' Bible. But oi'm a lad o' t' forest, and 'll be a keeper
                    some toime. That's better nor book-larning.”
                Captain Rothesay had no will to listen to more personal revelations from honest
                    John Dent; so he said, quickly—“Perhaps so, my good fellow.” Then he added,
                    rather hesitatinoly—“Mr. Gwynne has a mother living with him, I believe. What
                    sort of person is she?”
                “Her's a good-enough lady, oi reckon; only a
                    bit too proud. Many's the blanket her's gen* to poor folk; and my owd mother sees her every week—but her's never
                    shook hands wi' her yet. Eh, measter, won ye† go?”
                This last remark was bellowed after Captain Rothesay, whose horse had commenced a
                    sudden canter, which ceased not until its owner dismounted at the
                    parsonage-gate.
                This gate formed the boundary of the garden—and a most lovely spot it was. It
                    extended to the churchyard, with which it communicated by a little wicket-door.
                    You passed through beautiful parterres and alleys, formed of fragrant shrubs, to
                    the spot 
                        Where grew the turf, in many a mouldering heap.
                    
                It seemed as though the path of death were indeed through flowers. Garden and
                    churchyard covered the hill's summit; and from * She has given.
                    † Will
                        ye. both might be discerned a view
                    such as is rarely seen in level England. It was a panorama—extending some twenty
                    or thirty miles across the country—where, through woodlands and meadow-lands,
                    flowed the silver windings of a small river. Here and there was an old ruined
                    castle—a manor-house, rising among its ancestral trees—or the faint, misty
                    smoke-cloud, that indicated some hamlet or small town. Save these, the landscape
                    swept on unbroken, until it ended at the horizon in the high range of the
                    D—shire hills.
                Even to Captain Rothesay, this scene seemed strangely beautiful. He contemplated
                    it for some time—his hand still on the unopened gate; and then he became aware
                    that a lady, whose gardening-dress and gardening-implemerts showed she was
                    occupied in her favourite evening employment, was looking at him with some
                    curiosity.
                
                The traces of life's downward path are easier to recognise than those of its
                    ascent. Though the mature womanhood of Alison Balfour had glided into age,
                    Rothesay had no difficulty in discovering that he was in the presence of his
                    ancient friend. Not so with her. He advanced, addressed her by name, and even
                    took her hand, before she had the slightest idea that her guest was Angus
                    Rothesay.
                “Have you, then, so entirely forgotten me—forgotten the days in our native
                    Perthshire, when I was a bit laddie, and you, our guest, were Miss Alison
                    Balfour?”
                There came a trembling over her features—ay, aged woman as she was! But at her
                    years, all the past, whether of joy or grief, becomes faint; else, how would age
                    be borne? She extended both her hands, with a warm friendliness.
                “Welcome, Angus Rothesay! No 
                        won-
                        wonder
                     der I did not know you. These thirty
                    years—is it not thus much?—have changed you from a boy into a middle-aged man,
                    and made of me an old woman.”
                She really was an elderly lady now. It seemed almost ridiculous to think of her
                    as his youth's idol. Neither was she beautiful,—how could he ever have imagined
                    her so? Her irregular features—unnoticed when the white and red tints of youth
                    adorned them—were now, in age, positively plain. Her strong-built frame had, in
                    losing elasticity, lost much of grace, though dignity remained. Looking on Mrs.
                    Gwynne for the first time, she appeared a large, rather plain woman. Looking
                    again, it would be to observe the noble candour that dwelt in the eyes, and the
                    sweetness—at times even playfulness—that hovered round the mouth. Regarding her
                    for the third time, you would see a woman whom you felt sure you must perforce
                    respect, and might, in time, love very much—if
                    she would let you. Of that gracious permission you would long have considerable
                    doubt; but once granted, you would never unlove her to the end of your days. As
                    for her loving you, you would not be quite clear that it did not
                    spring from the generous benevolence of her nature, rather than from any
                    individual warmth toward yourself; and such was the reserve of her character,
                    that were her affection ever so deep, she might possibly never let you know it
                    until the day of your death.
                Yet she was capable of attachments, strong as her own nature. All her feelings,
                    passions, energies, were on a grand scale: in her, were no petty feminine
                    follies—no weak, narrow illiberalities of judgment. She had the soul of a man,
                    and the heart of a woman.
                “You were gardening, I see?” said Captain Rothesay, making the first ordinary
                        remark that came to his mind, to break the
                    awkward pause.
                “Yes; I do so every fine evening. Harold is very fond of flowers—and that reminds
                    me I must call him to you at once, as it is Wednesday,—service-night, and he
                    will be engaged in his duties soon.”
                “Pray, let us enter the house; I should much like to see your son,” said Angus
                    Rothesay. He gave her his arm; and they walked together, through the green
                    alleys of holly, to the front-door. Then Mrs. Gwynne stopped, put her hand over
                    her eyes for a moment, removed it, and looked earnestly at her guest.
                “Angus Rothesay! how strange this seems!—like a dream—a dream of thirty years.
                    Well, let us go in.”
                Mechanically, and yet in a subdued, absent manner, she laid her bonnet and shawl
                    on the hall-table, and took off her gardening-gloves, thereby discovering hands, which, though large, were
                    white and well-formed, and in their round, taper delicacy, exhibited no sign of
                    age. Captain Rothesay, without pausing to think, took the right hand.
                “Ah! you wear still the ring I used to play with when a boy. I thought—” and,
                    recollecting himself, he stopped, ashamed of his discourtesy in alluding to what
                    must have been a painful past.
                But she said, quietly, sadly, though without any agitation, “You have a good
                    memory. It was left to me, ten years since, on the death of Archibald
                    Maclean.”
                Strange that she could thus speak that name! But over how many a buried grief
                    does the grass grow green in thirty years!
                In the hall, they encountered a young man.
                “Harold,” said Mrs. Gwynne, “give 
                        wel-
                        welcome
                     come to an old—a very old friend of
                    mine—Captain Angus Rothesay. Angus, this is my son—my only son, Harold.”
                And she looked upon him as a mother, widowed for twenty years, looks upon an only
                    son; yet the pride was tempered with dignity, the affection was veiled under
                    reserve. She, who doubtless would have sustained his life with her own heart's
                    blood, had probably never since his boyhood suffered him to know a mother's
                    passionate tenderness, or to behold a mother's tear.
                Perhaps that was the reason that Harold's whole manner was the reflection of her
                    own. Not that he was like her in person; for nature had to him, been far more
                    bountiful; and Harold Gwynne, though not above mediocre height, was considerably
                    above mediocre beauty. But there was a certain rigidness and harshness in his
                    mien, and a slightly repellant atmosphere around him. Probably, not one of the young lambs of his flock had ever dreamed
                    of climbing the knee of the Reverend Harold Gwynne. Though he wore the clerical
                    garb, he did not look at all apostle-like; he was neither a St. Paul nor a St.
                    John. Yet a grand, noble head it was. It might have been sketched for that of a
                    young philosopher—a Galileo or a Priestley, with the heavy, strongly-marked
                    brows. The eyes—hackneyed as the description is, no one can paint a man without
                    mentioning his eyes: those of Harold Gwynne were not unlike his mother's, in
                    their open, steadfast look; yet they were not soft, like hers, but of a
                    steel-grey, diamond clear. He carried his head very erect; and these eyes of his
                    seemed as though unable to rest on the ground; they were always turned upwards,
                    with a gaze—not reverent or dreamy—but eager, inquiring, and piercing as truth
                    itself.
                Such was the young man with whom 
                        Cap-
                        Captain
                     tain Rothesay shook hands,
                    congratulating his old friend on having such a son.
                “You are more fortunate than I,” he said; “my marriage has only bestowed on me a
                    daughter.”
                “Daughters are a great comfort sometimes,” answered Mrs. Gwynne; “though, for my
                    part, I never wished for one.”
                The quick, reproachful glance of Harold sought his mother's face; and shortly
                    afterwards, he re-entered his study.
                “My son thinks I meant to include a daughter-in-law,” was Mrs. Gwynne's remark,
                    while the concealed playfulness about her mouth appeared. “He is soon to bring
                    me one.”
                “I know it—and know her, too; by this means I found you out. I should scarcely
                    have imagined Sara Derwent the girl for you to choose.”
                “He chooses, not I. A mother, whose dutiful son has been her sole stay through life, has no right to interfere
                    with what he deems his happiness,” said Alison, gravely. And, at that moment,
                    the young curate reappeared, ready for the duties to which he was summoned by
                    the sharp sound of the “church-going bell.”
                “I will stay at home with Captain Rothesay,” observed Mrs. Gwynne. Her guest made
                    a courteous disclaimer, which ended in something about “religious duties.”
                “Hospitality is a duty too—at least we thought so in the north,” she answered.
                    “And old friendship is ever somewhat of a religion with me. Therefore I will
                    stay, Harold.”
                “You are right, mother,” said Harold. But he would not that his mother had seen
                    the smile which curled his lip as he passed along the hall, and through the
                    garden towards the churchyard. There it faded into a look, dark and yet
                    mournful; which, as it turned from the dust
                    beneath his feet to the stars overhead, and then back again to the graves,
                    seemed to ask despairingly, at once of heaven and earth, for the solution of
                    some inward mystery.
                While Harold preached, his mother and Captain Rothesay sat in the parsonage and
                    talked of their olden days, now faint as a dream. The rising wind, which,
                    sweeping over the wide champaign, came to moan in the hill-side trees, seemed to
                    sing the dirge of that long-past life. Yet the heart of both, even of Angus
                    Rothesay, throbbed to its memory; as a Scottish heart ever does to that of home
                    and the mountain-land.
                Among other long unspoken names came that of Miss Flora Rothesay. “She is an old
                    woman now—a few years older than I; Harold visits her not infrequently; and she
                    and I correspond now and then, but we have not met for many years.”
                “Yet you have not forgotten her?”
                
                “Do I ever forget?” said Alison, as she turned her face towards him. And looking
                    thereon, he felt that such a woman never could.
                Their conversation, passing down the stream of time, touched on all that was
                    memorable in the life of both. She mentioned her husband—but merely the two
                    events, not long distant each from each, of their marriage and his death.
                “Your son is not like yourself—does he resemble Mr. Gwynne,” observed
                    Rothesay.
                “In person, yes, a little; in mind—no! a thousand times no!” Then recollecting
                    herself, she added, “It was not likely. Mr. Gwynne has been dead so many years
                    that my son”—it was always my son—“has no remembrance of his
                    father.”
                Alas! that there should be some whose memories are gladly suffered to perish,
                    with the falling of the earth above them.
                
                A thought like this passed through the mind of Angus Rothesay. “I fancy,” said
                    he, “that I once met Mr. Gwynne; he was—”
                “My husband!” Mrs. Gwynne's tone suppressed all further remark—even all
                    recollection of the contemptible image that was intruding on her guest's mind—an
                    image of a young, roistering, fox-hunting fool. Rothesay looked on the widow,
                    and the remembrance passed away, or became sacred as memory itself. And then the
                    conversation glided as a mother's heart would fain direct it—to her only
                    son.
                “He was a strange creature ever, was my Harold. In his childhood he always teazed
                    me with his ‘why and because;’ he would come to the root of everything, and
                    would not believe anything that he could not quite understand. Gradually I began
                    to glory in this peculiarity, for I saw it argued a mind far above the common
                    order. Angus, you are a father; you may be
                    happy in your child, but you never can understand the intense pride of a mother
                    in an only son.”
                While she talked, her countenance and manner brightened, and Captain Rothesay saw
                    again, not the serene, stern widow of Owen Gwynne, but the energetic,
                    impassioned mountain-girl, Alison Balfour. He told her this.
                “Is it so? Strange! And yet I do but talk to you as I often did when we were
                    young together.”
                He begged her to continue—his heart warmed as it had not done for many a day;
                    and, to lead the way, he asked what chance had caused the descendant of the
                    Balfours to become an English clergyman?
                “From circumstances. When he was very young and we two lived together in the poor
                    Highland cottage where he was born, my boy made acquaintance with an Englishman,
                        one Lord Arundale, a great student. Harold
                    longed to be a student, too.”
                “A noble desire.”
                “I shared it too. When the thought came to me that my boy would be a great man, I
                    nursed it, cherished it, made it my whole life's aim. We were not rich—I had not
                    married for money”—and there was a faint show of pride in her lip—“yet, Harold
                    must go, as he desired, to an English university. I said in my heart, ‘He
                    shall!’ and he did.”
                Angus looked at Mrs. Gwynne, and thought that a woman's will might sometimes be
                    as strong and daring as a man's.
                Alison continued—“My son had only half finished his education when fortune made
                    the poor poorer. But Scotland and Cambridge, thank Heaven! were far distant. I
                    never told him one word—I lived—it matters little how—I cared not! Our fortune
                    lasted, as I had calculated it would, till he had taken his degree, and left college rich in honours—and
                    then—”
                She ceased, and the light in her countenance faded. Angus Rothesay gazed upon the
                    aged mother as reverently as he had done upon the good angel of his boyish
                    days.
                “I said you were a noble woman, Alison Balfour.”
                “I was a mother, and I had a noble son!” was her only answer.
                They sat a long time silent, looking at the fire, and listening to the wind.
                    There was a momentary interruption—a message from the young clergyman, to say
                    that he was summoned some distance to visit a sick person.
                “On such a stormy night as this!” said Angus Rothesay.
                “Harold never fails in his duties,” replied the mother, with a smile. Then
                    turning abruptly to her guest—“You will let me talk, old friend, and about him.
                    I cannot often talk to him, for
                    he is so reserved—that is, so occupied with his clerical studies. But there
                    never was a better son than my Harold.”
                “I am sure of it,” said Captain Rothesay.
                The mother continued—“Never shall I forget the triumph of his coming home from
                    Cambridge. Yet it brought a pang, too; for then first he had to learn the whole
                    truth. Poor Harold! it pained me to see him so shocked and overwhelmed at the
                    sight of our lowly roof and mean fare; and to know that even these would not
                    last us long. But I said to him—‘My son, what signifies it, when you can soon
                    bring your mother to your own home.’ For he, already a deacon, had had a curacy
                    offered him, as soon as ever he chose to take priest's orders.”
                “Then he had already decided on entering the church?”
                “He had chosen that career in his youth.
                    Towards it his whole education had tended. But,” she added, with a troubled
                    look, “my old friend, I may tell you one doubt, which I have never yet breathed
                    to living soul—I think at this time there was a struggle in his mind. Perhaps
                    his dreams of ambition rose higher than the simple destiny of a country
                    clergyman. I hinted this to him, but he repelled my questionings. Alas! he knew,
                    as well as I, that there was now no other path open for him.”
                Mrs. Gwynne paused, and then went on, as though speaking more to herself than to
                    her listener.
                “The time came for Harold to decide. I marvelled not at the trouble and
                    restlessness which oppressed him, for I knew how strong ambition must be in a
                    man like him. God knows I would have worked, begged, starved, rather than he
                    should be thus tried. I told him so, the day before his ordination; but he entreated me to be silent, with a look such as
                    I never saw on his face before—such as I trust in God I never may see again. I
                    heard him all night walking about his chamber; and the next morning he was gone
                    ere I rose. When he came back, he seemed quite excited with joy, embraced me,
                    told me I should never know poverty more, for that he was in priest's orders,
                    and we should go the next week to the curacy at Harbury.”
                “And he has never repented?”
                “I think not. He is not without the honours he desired; for his fame in science
                    is extending far beyond his small parish. He fulfils his duties scrupulously;
                    and the people respect him, though he sides with no party, high-church or
                    evangelical. We abhor illiberality—my son and I.”
                “That is clear, otherwise I had never seen Alison Balfour quitting the kirk for
                    the church.”
                
                “Angus Rothesay,” said Mrs. Gwynne, with dignity, “I have learned, throughout a
                    long life, the lesson that trifling outward differences matter little—the spirit
                    of religion is its true life. This lesson I have taught my son from his cradle;
                    and where will you find a more sincere, moral, or pious man than Harold
                    Gwynne?”
                “Where indeed, mother?” echoed a voice, as Harold, opening the door, caught her
                    last words. “But come, ‘no more o' that, an thou lovest me!’”
                “Harold!” She looked at him commandingly, and the light tone in which he had
                    spoken was quelled. The coldness of reserve grew up between mother and son once
                    more.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER XVI.
                CAPTAIN ROTHESAY found himself at breakfast on the sixth
                    morning of his stay at Harbury—so swiftly had the time flown. But he felt a
                    purer and a happier man every hour that he spent with his ancient friend.
                The breakfast-room was Harold's study. It was more that of a man of science and
                    learning than that of a clergyman. Beside Leighton and Flavel, were placed Bacon
                    and Descartes; dust lay upon John Newton's Sermons, while close by, rested in
                    honoured well-thumbed tatters, his great namesake, who read God's scriptures in
                    the stars. In one corner lay a large unopened
                    packet—marked “Religious Society's Tracts;” it served as a stand for a large
                    telescope, whose clumsiness betrayed the ingenuity of home manufacture. The
                    theological contents of the library was a vast mass of polemical literature,
                    orthodox and heterodox, including all faiths, all variations of sect. Mahomet
                    and Swedenborg, Calvin and the Talmud, lay side by side; and on the farthest
                    shelf was the great original of all creeds—the Book of Books.
                On this morning, as on most others, Harold Gwynne did not appear until after
                    prayers were over. His mother read them, as indeed she always did morning and
                    evening. A stranger might have said, that her doing so was the last lingering
                    token of her sway as “head of the household.”
                Harold entered, his countenance bearing the
                    pallid restless look of one who lies half-dreaming in bed, long after he is
                    awake and ought to have risen. His mother saw it.
                “You are not right, Harold. I had far rather that you rose at six and studied
                    till nine, as formerly, than that you should dream away the morning hours, and
                    come down looking as you do now. Forgive me, but it is not good for you, my
                    son.”
                She often called him my son with a beautiful simplicity, that
                    reminded one of the holy Hebrew mothers—of Rebekah or of Hannah.
                Harold looked for a moment disconcerted—not angry. “Do not mind me, mother; I
                    shall go back to study in good time. Let me do as I judge best.”
                “Certainly,” was all the mother's reply. She reproved—she never “scolded.”
                    Turning the conversation, she directed hers to Captain Rothesay, while Harold
                    ate his 
                        break-
                        breakfast
                     fast in silence—a habit not unusual
                    with him. Immediately afterwards he rose, and prepared to depart for the
                    day.
                “I need not apologise to Captain Rothesay,” he said, in his own straightforward
                    manner, which was only saved from the imputation of bluntness by a certain manly
                    dignity—and contrasted strongly with the reserved and courtly grace of his
                    guest. “My pursuits can scarcely interest you, while I know, and
                        you know, what pleasure my mother takes in your society.”
                “You will not stay away all this day too, Harold. Surely that is a little too
                    much to be required, even by Miss Derwent,” spoke the quick impulse of the
                    mother's unconscious jealousy. But she repressed it at once—even before the
                    sudden flush of anger awakened by her words had faded from Harold's brow. “Go,
                    my son—your mother never interferes either with your duties or your
                    pleasures.”
                
                Harold took her hand—though with scarce less formality than he did that of
                    Captain Rothesay; and in a few minutes they saw him gallop down the hill and
                    across the open country, with a speed beseeming well the age of five-and-twenty,
                    and the season of a first love.
                Mrs. Gwynne looked after him with an intensity of feeling that in any other woman
                    would have found vent in a tear—certainly a sigh. But neither was easily
                    awakened in her nature; it was too deep.
                “You are thinking of your son and his marriage,” said Angus.
                “That is not strange. It is a life crisis with all men—and it has come so
                    suddenly—I scarcely know my Harold of two months since in my Harold now.”
                “To work such results, it must be an ardent love.”
                “Say, rather,a vehement passion—love does not
                    spring up and flower, like my hyacinths there, in six weeks,” answered Mrs.
                    Gwynne, smiling with that quiet humour which formed a curious and apparently
                    contradictory trait in her character. “But I murmur little. Reason, if not
                    feeling, tells me that a mother advancing in years cannot be all in all to a
                    young man. Harold needs a wife—let him take one! They will be married soon; and
                    if all Sara's qualities equal her beauty, this wild passion will soon mature
                    into affection. He may be happy—I trust so!”
                She folded her hands over her breast, less in meekness than to press down its
                    swelling emotion. Well she knew that woman's deepest love, as mother, sister,
                    wife, is often but another name for self-denying martyrdom.
                “But does your son's affianced return his love?” asked Rothesay.
                “Is there any girl who would not love my Harold?” spoke the quick-rising
                        maternal pride. But she almost smiled at
                    it herself, and added—“Really, you must excuse these speeches of mine. I talk to
                    you as I never do to any one else; but it is all for the sake of olden times.
                    This has been a happy week to me. You must pay us another visit soon.”
                “I will. And you must take a journey to my home, and learn to know my wife and
                    Olive,” said Rothesay. The pure influence of Alison Gwynne was unconsciously
                    strengthening to all good; and though, from some inexplicable feeling, he had
                    spoken but little of his wife and child, there were growing up in his mind many
                    schemes, the chief of which were connected with Olive. But he now thought less
                    of her appearing in the world as Captain Rothesay's heiress, than of her being
                    placed within the shadow of the noble nature of Alison Gwynne, and so reflecting
                    back upon her father's age that benign
                    influence which had been the blessing of his youth.
                He went on to tell Mrs. Gwynne more of his affairs and of his plans than he had
                    communicated to any one for many a long year. In the midst of their conversation
                    came the visitation—always so important in remote country districts—the
                    every-other-day's post.
                “For you—not me. I have few correspondents. So I will go to my duties, while you
                    attend to yours,” said Mrs. Gwynne, and departed.
                When she came in again, Captain Rothesay was pacing the room with a vexed and
                    disordered aspect.
                “No ill news, I hope,” said the voice, which, when it chose, could soften to all
                    a woman's sympathy.
                “No, my kind friend—not exactly ill-news, though vexatious enough. But why should
                    I trouble you with them?”
                
                “Nothing ever troubles me that can be of use to my friends. I ask no unwelcome
                    confidence. If it is any relief to you to speak, I will gladly hear. It is
                    sometimes good for a man to have a woman to talk to.”
                “It is—it is! Would that I had been blessed with common sense at home,” thought
                    Rothesay in his heart. And that heart opening itself more and more, he told her
                    his cause of annoyance. A most important mercantile venture would be lost to him
                    for want of what he called “a few paltry hundreds,” to be forthcoming on the
                    morrow.
                “If it had been a fortnight—just till my next ship is due; or even one week, to
                    give me time to make some arrangement! But where is the use of complaining? It
                    is too late.”
                “Not quite,” said Alison Gwynne, looking up after a few moments of deep thought;
                    and, with a clearness which would have gained for her the repute of “a thorough woman of business,” she
                    questioned Captain Rothesay, until she drew from him a possible way of obviating
                    his difficulty.
                “If, as you say, I were in London now, where my banker or some business friend
                    would take up a bill for me; but that is impossible!”
                “Nay—why say that you have friends alone in London?” replied Alison,with agentle
                    smile. “That is rather too unjust, Angus Rothesay. Our Highland clanship is not
                    so clean forgotten, I hope. Come, old friend, it will be hard if I cannot do
                    something for you. And Harold, who loves Flora Rothesay almost as much as he
                    loves me, would gladly aid her kinsman.”
                “How—how! Nay, but I will never consent,” cried Angus, with a resoluteness
                    through which his first eager sense of relief was clearly discernible. Truly,
                    there was coming upon him, with this mania of
                    speculation, the same desperation which causes the gambler to clutch money from
                    the starving hands of those who even yet are passionately dear.
                “You shall consent, friend,” answered Mrs. Gwynne, composedly. “Why
                    should you not? It is a mere form—an obligation of a week, at most. You will
                    accept that for the sake of Alison Balfour.”
                He clasped her hand with as much emotion as was in his nature to show.
                She continued—“Well, we will talk of this again when Harold comes in to dinner.
                    But, positively, I see him returning. There he is, dashing up the hill. I hope
                    nothing is the matter.”
                Yet she did not quit the room to meet him, but sat apparently quiet, though her
                    hands were slightly trembling, until her son came in. In answer to her question,
                    he said—
                
                “No, no; nothing amiss. Only Mr. Fludyer would have me go to the Hall to see his
                    new horses; and there I found—”
                “Sara!” interrupted the mother. “Well, perhaps she thought it would be a pleasant
                    change from the dulness of Waterton during your absence; so never mind.”
                He did mind. He restlessly paced the room, angry with his mother, himself—with
                    the whole world. Mrs. Gwynne might well notice how this sudden passion had
                    changed his nature. A moralist looking on the knotted brow, which indicated the
                    most majestic intellect, would have smiled to see—not for the first time—a great
                    and wise man making of himself a slave, nay, a very fool, for the enchantments
                    of a beautiful woman.
                His mother took his arm and walked with him up and down the room, without talking
                    to him at all. But her firm step and firm clasp seemed to soothe—almost force
                    him into 
                        com-
                        composure
                     posure. She had over him at once a
                    mother's influence and a father's control.
                Meanwhile, Captain Rothesay busied, or seemed to busy himself, with his numerous
                    letters, and very wisely kept nearly out of sight.
                As soon as her son appeared a little recovered from his vexation, Mrs. Gwynne
                    said,
                “Now, Harold, if you are quite willing, I want to talk to you for a few minutes.
                    Shall it be now or this evening?”
                “This evening I shall ride over to Waterton.”
                “What! not one evening to spare for your mother, or—” she corrected herself
                    speedily, “for your beloved books?”
                He moved restlessly.
                “Nay, I have had enough of study; I must have interest, amusement, excitement. I
                    think I have drunk all the world's pleasures
                    dry, except this one. Mother, don't keep it from me; I know no rest except I am
                    beside Sara.”
                He rarely spoke to her so freely, and, despite her pain, the mother was
                    touched.
                “Go, then, go to Sara; and the matter I wished to speak upon we will discuss
                    now.”
                He sat down and listened, though often only with his outward ears, to her plan,
                    wherewith Captain Rothesay might be saved from his difficulty.
                “It is a mere nominal thing; I would execute it myself, but a wonman's name would
                    scarcely do. Yours will. My son Harold will at once perform such a trifling act
                    of kindness for his mother's friend.”
                “Of course—of course. Come, tell me what to do; you understand all these business
                    affairs—wise woman that you are, mother!” said Harold, as he rose up to seek his
                    guest.
                Captain Rothesay scrupled a while longer; but
                    at length the dazzling vision of coming wealth absorbed both pride and
                    reluctance. It would be so hard to miss the chance of thousands, by objecting to
                    a mere form. “Besides, Harold Gwynne shall share the success,” he thought; and
                    he formed many schemes for changing the comparative poverty of the parsonage
                    into comfort and luxury. It was only when the pen was in the young man's hand,
                    ready to sign the paper, that the faintest misgiving crossed Rothesay's
                    mind.
                “Stay, it is but for a few days—yet life sometimes ends in an hour. What, if I
                    should die, at once, before I can requite you? Mr. Gwynne, you shall not do
                    it.”
                “He shall—I mean, he will,” answered the mother.
                “But not until I have secured him in some way.”
                “Nay, Angus; we ‘auld acquaintance’ should not thus bargain away our friendship,”
                        said Mrs. Gwynne, with wounded
                    pride—Highland pride. “And besides, there is no time to lose. Here is the
                    acceptance ready—so, Harold, sign!”
                And Harold did sign. The instant after, glad to escape, he quitted the room.
                Angus Rothesay sank on a chair with a heart-deep sigh of relief. It was done now.
                    He eyed with thankfulness the paper which had secured him the golden prize.
                “It is but a trifle—a sum not worth naming,” he muttered to himself; and so,
                    indeed, it seemed to one who had “turned over” thousands like mere heaps of
                    dust. He never thought that it was an amount equal to Harold's yearly income for
                    which the young man had thus become bound.
                Yet he omitted not again and again to thank Mrs. Gwynne, and with excited
                    eagerness to point to all the prospects now before him.
                “And, besides, you cannot think from what you
                    have saved me—the annoyance—the shame of breaking my word. Oh! my friend, you
                    know not in what a whirling, restless world of commerce I live! To fail in
                    anything, or be thought to fail, would positively ruin me and drive me mad.”
                “Angus—old companion!” answered Mrs. Gwynne, regarding him earnestly, “you must
                    not blame me if I tell you this is wrong. In one week I have seen far into your
                    heart—farther than you think. Be advised by me; change this life for one more
                    calm. Home and its blessings never come too late.”
                “You are right,” said Angus. “I sometimes think that all is not well with me. I
                    am growing old, and business racks my head sadly sometimes. Feel it now!”
                He carried to his brow her hand—the hand which had led him when a boy, which in
                    his fantastic dream of youth he had passionately kissed; even now, when the
                    pulses were grown leaden with age, it felt
                    cool, calm, like the touch of some pitying and protecting angel.
                Alison Gwynne shook her head gently. “My friend, you say truly all is not well
                    with you. Let us put aside all business, and walk in the garden. Come!”
                Captain Rothesay lingered at Harbury yet one day more. But he could not stay
                    longer, for this important business-venture made him restless. Besides, Harold's
                    wedding was near at hand; in less than a week the mother would be sole regent of
                    her son's home no more. No wonder that this made her grave and anxious—so that
                    even her old friend's presence was a slight restraint. Yet she bade him adieu
                    with her own cordial sincerity. He began to pour out thanks for all
                    kindness—especially the one kindness of all, adding—
                “But I will say no more. You shall see or hear from me in a few days at
                    farthest.”
                
                “Not until after the wedding—I can think of nothing till after the wedding,”
                    answered Mrs. Gwynne. “Now, farewell, friend! but not for another thirty years,
                    I trust!”
                “No, no!” cried Angus,warmly. He looked at her as she sat in serene, subdued age,
                    by the light of her own hearth—life's trials conquered—life's duties
                    fulfilled—and she appeared not less divine a creature than the Alison Balfour
                    who had trod the mountains full of joy, and hope, and energy. Holy and beautiful
                    she had seemed to him in her youth; and though every shadow of that passionate
                    idealisation, once called love, was gone, still holy and beautiful she seemed to
                    him in her age.
                Angus Rothesay rode away from Harbury Parsonage, feeling that there he had gained
                    a new interest to make life and life's duties more sacred. He thought with
                    tenderness of his home—of his wife, and of his “little Olive;” and then, travelling by a rather circuitous route,
                    his thoughts rested on Harold Gwynne.
                “The kind-hearted, generous fellow! I will take care he is requited double. And
                    to-morrow, before ever I reach Oldchurch, I will go to my lawyer's and make all
                    safe on his account.”
                To-morrow! He remembered not who sayeth, “Boast not thyself of to-morrow.”
            
            
                
                CHAPTER XVII.
                OLIVE sat mournfully contemplating Sara Derwent's last
                    letter—the last she knew it would be. It was written, not with the frank
                    simplicity of their girlish confidence, but with the formal dignity of one who
                    the next day would become a bride. It spoke of no regret, no remorse for her
                    violated troth; it mentioned her former promise in a cold, business-like manner,
                    without inferring any changed love, but merely stating her friends' opinion on
                    the “evil of long engagements, and that she would be much better married at once
                    to Harold Gwynne, than waiting some ten years for Charles Geddes.” How
                        lightly won and lightly lost are hearts
                    like that of Sara Derwent!
                But to Olive this change seemed a positive sin. She shuddered to think of Sara's
                    wicked faithlessness; she wept with pity, remembering poor Charles. The sense of
                    wrong, as well as of misery, had entered her world at once; her idols were
                    crumbling into dust. She mourned now, not only the hopelessness of being loved,
                    but the hopelessness of finding aught to love with the adoration that requires
                    nothing less than perfection to fulfil all its aspirings. To love—not to be
                    loved—could now be her only blessing; was this, also, to be denied? Life grew
                    painful to her, and a morbid bitterness was settling on her soul.
                She read the account that Sara had somewhat boastfully written, of her prospects,
                    her pretty home, and of Harold's devotion to her. “This clever man—this noble
                    man (as people call him, and most of all his mother)—I could wind him round my little finger. What think
                    you, Olive? Is not that something to be married for? You ask if I am happy. Yes,
                    certainly, happier than you can imagine.”
                “That is true indeed,” murmured Olive; and there came upon her a bitter sense of
                    the inequalities of life. It seemed that Heaven to some gave all things; to
                    others, nothing! But she hushed the complainings, for they seemed impious. Her
                    spirit grew calm beneath the faith she had been taught by Elspie, which, though
                    carried by the old Scotswoman into all the mystic horrors of Calvinistic
                    predestination, yet had sweetness at its root. For it was a faith that taught
                    the peace of resting childlike beneath the shadow of that Omnipotent Will, which
                    holds every tangled thread of fate within one mighty Hand, which rules all
                    things, and rules them continually for good.
                
                While thinking thus, Olive was sitting in her “bower,” as she called her
                    favourite place of solitude. It was a garden-seat, placed under the thorn-tree,
                    and shut out from sight of the house by an espalier of apple-trees. Not very
                    romantic, certainly, but a most pleasant spot, with the sound of the “shallow
                    river” gliding by, and of many a bird that “sang madrigals” in the meadows
                    opposite. And Olive herself, as she sat with her hands crossed on her knee, her
                    bending head and pensive eyes out-gazing, added no unmeet picture to the still
                    beauty of the scene. Many a lovely woman might have coveted the meek yet
                    heavenly look which cast sweetness over the pale features of the deformed
                    girl.
                Olive, sitting with her eyes cast down, was some time before she became conscious
                    that she was watched—long and earnestly; but by an innocent watcher—her “little
                        knight,” as he had dubbed hinself, Lyle
                    Derwent. His face looked out from the ivy-leaves at the top of the wall. Soon he
                    had leaped down, and was kneeling at her feet, just like a young lover in a
                    romance. Smiling, she told him so; for in truth she made a great pet of the
                    child, whose delicate beauty pleased her artist-eye, while his gentleness won
                    her affection.
                “Well, and I will be your lover, Miss Olive,” said he, stoutly; “for I love you
                    very much indeed. I should so like to kiss you—may I?”
                She stooped down; the little clinging arms, the sweet childish kiss, moved her
                    almost to tears.
                “Why are you always so sad, Miss Rothesay? why do you never laugh, like Sara, or
                    the other young ladies we know?”
                “Because I am not like Sara, or like any other girl. Ah! Lyle, all is very
                        different with me,” said Olive, sighing
                    softly. “But, my little knight, this can scarcely be understood by one so young
                    as you.”
                “Though I am a little boy, I know thus much, that I love you, and think you more
                    beautiful than anybody else in the world—even than Sara.”
                And speaking rather loudly and energetically, he was answered by a burst of
                    derisive laughter from behind the wall.
                Olive crimsoned; it was one more of those passing wounds which her sensitive
                    nature now continually received. Was even a child's love for her deemed so
                    unnatural, and worthy to be mocked at thus cruelly? Lyle, with a quickness
                    beyond his years, seemed to have divined her thoughts, and his gentle temper was
                    roused into passion.
                “I will kill Bob, I will! Never mind him, sweet, dear, beautiful Miss Rothesay; I
                    love you, and I hate him.”
                
                “Hush! Lyle, hush! that is wrong.” And then she was silent. Her heaving breast
                    and white cheek alone revealed how deeply the arrow had entered. The little boy
                    stood by her side, his face still burning with indignation.
                Soon Olive's trouble subsided. She whispered to herself, “It must be always
                    thus—I will try to bear it,” and then she became composed. She bade her little
                    friend adieu, telling, him she was going back into the house.
                “But you will forgive all, you will not think of anything that would tease you?”
                    said Lyle, hesitatingly.
                Olive promised, with a pale, patient smile.
                “And to prove this, will you kiss your little knight once again?”
                “If you desire it.”
                Her soft drooping hair swept his cheek; her lips touched his. Afterwards, when,
                    in his childish but most fanciful musings,
                    Lyle Derwent used to dream of an angel's kiss, it always seemed to him like this
                    of Olive Rothesay's—her last!
                The young girl entered the house. Within it rested the slumberous quiet of a
                    Sunday afternoon. Her mother had gone to a distant church, and there was none
                    left “to keep house,” save one of the maids and the old grey cat, that dosed on
                    the window-sill in the sunshine. The latter was a great pet of Olive's; and the
                    moment it saw its young mistress, it was purring round her feet, following her
                    from room to room, never resting until she took it up in her arms. The love even
                    of a dumb animal touched her then. She sat down on her own little low chair,
                    spread on her lap the smooth white apron which Miss Pussy loved—cats have
                    delicate and refined tastes sometimes—and so she leaned back, soothed by the
                    monotonous song of her purring favourite, and 
                        think-
                        thinking
                     ing that there was at least one
                    living creature who loved her, and whom she could make happy.
                She sat at the open window, seeing only the high, green privet hedge that
                    enclosed the front-garden, the little wicket-gate, and the blue sky beyond. How
                    still everything was! By degrees the footsteps of a few late churchgoers
                    vanished along the road; the bells ceased—first the quick, sharp clang of the
                    new church, and then the musical peal that rang out from the grey Norman tower.
                    There never were such bells as those of Oldchurch! but they melted away in
                    silence; and then the dreamy quietness of the hour stole over Olive's sense.
                She thought of many things—things which might have been sad, but for the
                    slumberous peace that took away all pain. It was just the hour when she had used
                    to sit on the floor, leaning against Elspie's knees, generally reading aloud in the Book which alone the nurse
                    permitted on Sundays. Now and then—once in particular she remembered—old Elspie
                    fell asleep; and then Olive turned to her favourite study, the Book of
                    Revelations. Childlike, she terrified herself over the mysterious prophecies of
                    the latter days, until at last she forgot the gloom and horror, in reading of
                    the “beautiful city, New Jerusalem.”
                She seemed to see it—its twelve gates, angel-guarded, its crystal river, its
                    many-fruited tree—the Tree of Life. Her young but glowing fancy, unable to
                    separate truth from allegory, created out of these marvels a paradise, material
                    in itself. She knew not that heaven is only the continual presence of the
                    Eternal. Yet she was happy; and in her dreams she never pictured the land beyond
                    the grave, but there came back to her, as though the nearest foreshadowing of
                    its deep, holy rest, the visions of that
                    Sunday afternoon.
                She sat a long time thinking of them, and of herself—how much older she felt
                    since then, and how many troubles shehad passed through. Troubles! Poor
                    child!—how little knew she those of the world! But even her own small burthen
                    seemed lightened now. She leaned her head against the window, listening to the
                    bees humming in the garden—bees, the only Sunday workers, and even they seemed
                    to toil with a kind of Sabbatic solemnity. And then, turning her face upwards,
                    Olive watched many a fair white butterfly, that, having flitted awhile among the
                    flowers, spread its wings and rose far into the air, like a pure soul weary of
                    earth, and floating heavenward. How she wished—girlish dreamer!—that she could
                    do likewise; and leaving earth behind—its flowers as well as weeds, its sunshine
                    as its storm—soar into another and a higher
                    existence!
                Not yet, Olive—not yet! None receives the guerdon, save he who has won the
                    goal!
                A pause in the girl's reverie—caused by a light sound that broke the perfect
                    quietness around. She listened; it was the rumbling of carriage-wheels along the
                    road—a rare circircumstance; for the people of Oldchurch, if not personally
                    devout, lived in a devout atmosphere, which forbade pleasure-drives on the day
                    of rest.
                A momentary hope struck Olive that it might be her father returning home, where
                    he was now daily expected. But he was a strict man; he never travelled on
                    Sundays. Nevertheless, Olive listened mechanically to the wheels: they dashed
                    rapidly on—came near—stopped. Yes, it must be her father.
                Full of joy, she flew to the hall-door, to
                    welcome him. There, stood, not her father, but a little hard-featured old man,
                    Mr. Wyld, the family lawyer. Olive drew back, sorely disappointed; for if in her
                    gentle heart lingered one positive aversion, it was felt towards this man—partly
                    on his own account, partly because his appearance seemed always the forewarning
                    of evil in the little household. He never came, but, at his departure, Captain
                    Rothesay wore a frowning brow, and indulged in a hasty temper for days and days.
                    No marvel was there in Olive's dislike; yet she regretted having shown it, and
                    said courteously—
                “Pardon me, Mr. Wyld, but I thought it was my father. I am sorry that he is not
                    at home to receive you.”
                “Nay, I—I did not come to see Captain Rothesay,” answered the lawyer, betraying
                    some confusion and hesitation beneath his
                    usual smooth manner. “The fact is, my dear young lady, I bring a letter for your
                    mother.”
                “From papa?” cried Olive, eagerly.
                “No, not exactly; that is—. But can I see Mrs. Rothesay?”
                “She is at church. She will be at home in half an hour, probably. Will you
                    wait?”
                He shook his head.
                “Nay, there is nothing wrong—nothing about papa?” said Olive, growing
                    frightened.
                “Don't alarm yourself, my dear.”
                Olive shrank from the touch of his.hand, as he led her into the parlour.
                “Your papa is at my house. But I think, Miss Rothesay, as your mother is not at
                    home, you had better read the letter yourself.”
                She took it with a hand that trembled despite her will. Slowly, silently, she
                    read it through—twice; for the words seemed to
                    dazzle and blaze before her eyes. Then she looked up helplessly. “I—I cannot
                    understand.”
                “I thought the doctor wrote plainly enough, and broke the matter cautiously,
                    too,” muttered Mr. Wyld; adding aloud, “Upon my honour, my dear, I assure you
                    your father is alive. It is a painful task—a very painful task, to bring this
                    news.”
                “Tell me—I cannot read, I cannot see—Oh, my poor father!” And then she sank down
                    slowly where she stood, as if pressed by some heavy, invisible hand. Mr.Wyld
                    thought she had fainted—but it was not so. In another moment she stood before
                    him, quiet, cold, nerved by this great woe to a firmness which was awful in its
                    rigid composure.
                “I can listen now. Tell me everything!”
                He told her in a few words how Captain Rothesay had come to his house the night
                    before, and while waiting his return, had taken up the newspaper. “Suddenly, my clerk said, he let it
                    fall with a cry, and was immediately seized with the fit from which he has not
                    yet recovered. There is hope, the doctor thinks; but, in case of the worst, you
                    must come to him at once.”
                “Yes, yes, at once!” She rose and walked to the door. guiding herself by the
                    wall, and groping as if she were blind.
                “Nay, Miss Rothesay, what are you doing? You forget we cannot go without your
                    mother.”
                “My mother! Oh, heaven! it will kill my mother!” And the thought brought tears,
                    the first that had burst from her. It was well, or her bewildered brain might
                    have reeled beneath the sudden blow.
                She awoke to consciousness and strength. In this great crisis, there came to her
                    the wisdom and forethought that lay dormant in her nature. She became a
                    woman—one of those of whom the world contains
                    few—at once gentle and strong, meek and fearless, patient to endure, heroic to
                    act.
                She sat down for a moment and considered. “Fourteen miles it is to B—. If we
                    start in an hour, we shall reach there by sunset.” Then she summoned the maid;
                    and said, speaking steadily, that she might by no sign betray what might in turn
                    be betrayed to her mother—
                “You must go and meet mamma as she comes from church; or, if not, seek her there.
                    Tell her there is a message come from my father, and ask her to hasten home on
                    his account. Make haste yourself I will keep house the while.—There, that is
                    done;—she will not guess anything,” added Olive, as the woman left the room,
                    murmuring a little, but never thinking to disobey her young mistress—so sudden,
                    so all-constraining, was the dignity which had come upon the girl. Even Mr. Wyld felt it; and his manner changed from
                    smooth, patronising condolence, to a respect not unmingled with awe.
                “What can I do, Miss Rothesay?” he said, humbly. “You turn from me. No wonder,
                    when I have had the misfortune to be the bearer of such evil tidings.”
                “Hush!” she said; for there was tenfold bitterness in the sound of his harsh
                    voice, croaking regret and sympathy. Mechanically she set wine before him—he
                    eagerly swallowed it; even then prating, between the draughts, of his deep
                    sorrow, and earnest hope that no serious evil would befall his good friend,
                    Captain Rothesay.
                Olive could endure no more. She fled away, shut herself up in her own room, and
                    fell on her knees; but no words came, save the bitter cry “O God, have pity on
                    us!” And there was no time, not even to pray, except with the silent voice of
                    her heart.
                
                She pressed her hands on her brow, and once more thought what she had to do. At
                    that moment, through the quietness of the lonely house, she heard the clock
                    striking four. Never had time's passing seemed so awful. The day was fleeting on
                    whose every moment perhaps hung a life.
                Something she must do, or her senses would have failed. She thought of little
                    things aught that might be needed when they reached her father. Quietly she went
                    into Mrs. Rothesay's room, and put up some clothes and necessaries, in case they
                    stayed more than one day at B—; her mother's large, warm shawl, too, for she
                    might have to sit up all night. In these trifling arrangements what a horrible
                    reality there was! And yet she scarce felt it—she was half stunned still.
                It was past four, and her mother had not come. Every minute seemed an eternity.
                    Olive walked to the window and looked out.
                    There was the same cheerful sunshine—the bees humming, and the butterflies
                    flitting about, in the sweet stillness of the Sabbath afternoon, as she had
                    watched them an hour ago. One little hour, to have brought into her world such
                    utter misery.
                She thought of it all, dwelling vividly on every accompaniment of woe—even as she
                    remembered to have done when she first learned that Elspie would die. She
                    pictured her mother's coming home; and almost fancied she could see her now,
                    walking across the fields. But no; it was some one in a white dress, strolling
                    by the hedge-row's side; and Mrs. Rothesay that day wore blue—her favourite pale
                    blue muslin, in which she looked so lovely. She had gone out, laughs ing at her
                    daughter for saying this. What if Olive should never see her in that pretty
                    dress again!
                
                All this, and more, clung to the girl's mind, with a horrible pertinacity. And
                    then, through the silence, she heard the Oldchurch-bells awaking again, in the
                    dull minute-peal which told that service-time was ended, and the afternoon
                    funerals were taking place. Olive, shuddering, closed her ears against the
                    sound; and then, gazing out once more, she saw her mother stand at the gate. All
                    unconscious still, Mrs. Rothesay looked up at the window and smiled.
                Olive had never thought of that worst pang of all—how she should break the news
                    to her mother—her timid, delicate mother, whose feeble frame quivered beneath
                    the lightest breath of suffering. Scarcely knowing what she did, the daughter
                    flew down stairs.
                “Not there, mamma—not there!” she cried, as Mrs. Rothesay was about to enter the 
                        par-
                        parlour
                     lour. Olive drew her into another
                    room, and made her sit down.
                “What is all this, my dear?—why do you look so strange? Is not your papa come
                    home? Let us go to him.”
                “We will, we will! But, mamma”—One moment she looked speechlessly in Mrs.
                    Rothesay's face, and then fell on her neck, crying, “I can't, I can't keep it
                    from you any longer. Oh, mother, mother! there is great trouble come upon us; we
                    must be patient; we must bear it together. God will help us.”
                “Olive!” The shrill terror of Mrs. Rothesay's voice rung through the room.
                “Hush! we must be quiet, very quiet. Papa is dangerously ill at B—, and we must
                    start at once. I have arranged all. Come, mamma, dearest!”
                But her mother had fainted.
                There was no time to lose. Olive snatched some
                    restoratives, and then made ready to depart. Mrs. Rothesay, still insensible,
                    was lifted into the carriage. She lay there, for some time, quite motionless,
                    supported in her daughter's arms—to which never had she owed support before. As
                    Olive looked down upon her, strange, new feelings came into the girl's heart.
                    The natural instinct of filial tenderness seemed transmuted into a devotion
                    passing the love of child to mother, and mingled therewith was a sense of
                    protection, of watchful guardianship.
                She thought, “What if my father should die, and we two should be left alone in
                    the world! Then she will have none to look to save me, and I will be to her in
                    the stead of all. Once, I think, she loved me little; but, oh! mother, dearly we
                    love one another now.”
                When Mrs. Rothesay's senses returned, she lifted her head, with a bewildered
                        air. “Where are we going? What has
                    happened? I can't think clearly of anything.”
                “Dearest mamma, do not try—I will think for us both. Be content; you are quite
                    safe with your own daughter.”
                “My daughter—ah! I remember, I fainted, as I did long years ago, when they told
                    me something about my daughter. Are you she—that little child whom I cast from
                    my arms? and now I am lying in yours!” she cried, her mind seeming to wander, as
                    if distraught by this sudden shock.
                “Hush, mamma! don't talk; rest quiet here,” was the soothing answer.
                Mrs. Rothesay looked wistfully in her daughter's face, and there seemed to cross
                    her mind some remembered sense of what had befallen. She clung helplessly to
                    those affectionate arms—“Take care of me, Olive!—I do not deserve it, but take
                    care of me!”
                
                “I will, until death!” was Olive's inward vow.
                And so, travelling fast, but in solemn silence, they came to B—. Alas! it was
                    already too late! By Angus Rothesay's bed of death they stood—the widow and the
                    fatherless!
            
            
                
                CHAPTER XVIII.
                THE tomb had scarcely closed over Captain Rothesay, when it was
                    discovered that his affairs were in a state of irretrievable confusion. For
                    months, he must have lived with ruin staring him in the face. His sudden death
                    was then no mystery. The newspaper had startled him with tidings—partly false,
                    as afterwards appeared—of a heavy disaster by sea, and the failure of his latest
                    speculation at home. There seemed lifted against him at once the hand of Heaven
                    and of man. His proud nature could not withstand the shock; shame smote him, and
                    he died.
                
                “Tell me only one thing!” cried Olive to Mr.Wyld, with whom, after the funeral,
                    she was holding conference—she only—for her mother was incapable of acting, and
                    this girl of sixteen was the sole ruler of the household now. “Tell me only that
                    my father died unblemished in honour—that there are none to share misfortune
                    with us, and to curse the memory of the ruined merchant.”
                “I know of none,” answered Mr. Wyld. “One fear your father had was vain—the
                    missing ship has come safe to land. True, there are still remaining many private
                    debts, but they may be paid.” And he cast a meaning glance round the luxuriously
                    furnished room.
                “I understand. It shall be done,” said Olive. Misery had made her very wise—very
                    quick to comprehend. Without shrinking, she talked over every matter
                        connected with that saddest thing—a
                    deceased bankrupt's sale.
                The lawyer was a hard man, and Olive's prejudice against him was not unfounded.
                    Still, the most stony heart has often a little softness buried deep at its core.
                    Mr. Wyld looked with curiosity, even with kindness, on the young creature who
                    sat opposite to him, in the dim lamp-light of the silent room, once Captain
                    Rothesay's study. Her cheek, ever delicate, was now of a dull white; her pale
                    gold hair fell neglected over her black dress; her hand supported her
                    care-marked brow, as she pored over dusty papers, pausing at times to speak, in
                    a quiet, sensible, subdued manner, of things fit only for old heads and worn
                    hearts. Mr. Wyld thought of his own two daughters, whom he had left at home,
                    blithe in their untried youth, and felt a vague thankfulness that they were not
                    as Olive Rothesay. Tenderness was rare in his
                    nature; but in all his intercourse with her, he could not help treating with a
                    sort of reverence the dead merchant's forlorn child.
                When they had finished their conversation, he said, “There is one matter—painful,
                    too—upon which I ought to speak to you. I should have done so before, but I did
                    not know it myself until yesterday.”
                “Know what? Alas! alas! is there more trouble to come upon us?” answered Olive,
                    sighing bitterly. “But tell me all.”
                “All, is very little. You know, my dear Miss Rothesay, that your
                    late lamented father—” he puckered his face into an expression of condolence,
                    but seeing Olive's restless gesture, smoothed it out again—“your father was
                    quite speechless and senseless, until his death—that is, almost. But my wife,
                    who never quitted him—ah! I assure you she was
                    a devoted nurse to him, was Mrs. Wyld.”
                “I thank her deeply, as she knows.”
                “Well, she has just told me, that a few minutes before his death, your poor
                    father's consciousness returned; that he seemed struggling in vain to speak; at
                    last, she placed a pencil in his hand, and he wrote—one word only, in the act of
                    writing which he died. Forgive me, my dear young lady, for thus agitating you,
                    but—”
                “The paper—give me the paper!” gasped Olive.
                Mr. Wyld pulled out his pocket-book, and produced a torn and blotted scrap,
                    whereon was written, in characters scarcely legible, the name
                    “Harold.”
                Olive wept over the blurred letters, seeming almost to behold the quivering,
                    death-struck hand which had formed them. She
                    wearied herself in agonized conjecture over the mystery, now apparently for ever
                    sealed.
                “Do you know any one who bears that name?” asked the penetrating lawyer.
                “No. Yes—one,” added she, suddenly remembering that the name of Sara's husband
                    was Harold Gwynne. But between him and her father she knew of no single tie. It
                    must be a mere chance-coincidence. Nevertheless, she would have asked something
                    concerning him, save that the whole Derwent family were gone to their sister's
                    wedding, which took place, not at Oldchurch, but in a distant county.
                “It is hopeless!” cried Olive. “I know no clue, and I dare not tell this to my
                    mother yet. We must let the matter rest.”
                Mr. Wyld, feeling his professional acuteness at stake, took up the paper, with an
                        air of mysterious importance. “If it were
                    a woman's name, now—I executed a little commission once.”
                “What did you say?” asked Olive, looking up at him with her innocent eyes. He
                    could not meet them; his own fell confused, for he remembered that she was her
                    father's child.
                “What did I say, Miss Rothesay? Oh, nothing—nothing at all; only that if I had a
                    commission—to—to hunt out this secret. We lawyers are acute sometimes, you
                    know,” said Mr. Wyld, ingeniously twisting his words to an opposite meaning.
                Olive thought he was angling for more fees; and inwardly disgusted, she resolved
                    to put a stop to his interference. “I thank you, Mr. Wyld; but a daughter would
                    not willingly employ any third person to “hunt out” her father's secret. His
                    papers will doubtless inform me of all needful things that he might wish executed; therefore we will speak no more of
                    this subject.”
                “As you will.” He gathered up his blue bag and its voluminous contents, and made
                    his adieux, leaving to welcome solitude the young creature whom a hard fate had
                    made his assistant in tasks so unsuited for her sex and years.
                But Olive had scarcely sat down again, and, with her head leaning on her father's
                    desk, had given vent to a sigh of relief, in that she was freed from Mr. Wyld's
                    presence,—when the old lawyer again appeared.
                “Miss Rothesay, I merely wished to say, if ever you find out anything—anything
                    that you don't know now—or need any advice or information about that paper, or
                    any other, I'm the man to give it. Good evening!”
                Olive thanked him coldly, somewhat proudly, for what she deemed a piece of
                    unnecessary impertinence. However, it quickly
                    passed from her gentle mind; and then, as the best way to soothe all her
                    troubles, she quitted the study, and sought her mother's side.
                Of Mrs. Rothesay's affliction we have as yet said little. Many and various are
                    earth's griefs; but there must be an awful individuality in the stroke which
                    severs the closest human tie, that between two whom marriage had made “one
                    flesh.” And though some coldness had loosened this sacred tie, still no power
                    could utterly divide it, while life endured. Angus Rothesay's widow remembered
                    that she had once been the loved and loving bride of his youth. As such, she
                    mourned him; nor was her grief without that keenest sting, the memory of
                    unatoned wrong. From the dim shores of the past, arose ghosts that nothing could
                    ever lay, because death's river ran eternally between.
                Sybilla Rothesay was one of those women whom no force of circumstances can
                        ever teach self-dependence or command. She
                    had looked entirely to her husband for guidance and control, and now for both
                    she looked to her child. From the moment of Captain Rothesay's death, Olive
                    seemed to rule in his stead—or rather, the parent and child seemed to change
                    places. Olive watched, guided, and guarded the passive, yielding sorrow-stricken
                    woman, as it were, with a mother's care; while Mrs. Rothesay trusted implicitly
                    in all things to her daughter's stronger mind, and was never troubled by
                    thinking or acting for herself in any one thing.
                This may seem a new theory of maternal and filial bond, but in the world it is
                    frequently so. If we look around on those daughters who have best fulfilled that
                    holy duty, without which no life is or can be blest, are they not women of firm,
                    steadfast nature—able to will and to act? Each of them could say, “I am as a mother unto my mother. I, the
                    strongest now, take her in her feeble age, like a child to my bosom—I shield
                    her, and cherish her, and am to her all in all.”
                And so, in her heart, resolved Olive Rothesay. She had made that vow when her
                    mother lay insensible in her arms; she kept it faithfully; until eternity,
                    closing between them, sealed it with that best of earth's blessings—the blessing
                    that falls on a duteous daughter, whose mother is with God.
                When Captain Rothesay's affairs were settled, the sole wreck of his wealth that
                    remained to his widow and child was the small settlement from Mrs. Rothesay's
                    fortune, on which she had lived at Stirling. So they were not left in actual
                    need; or even Olive's brave spirit might have quailed, and her sweet nature been
                    stung into evil by the bitterness of want.
                
                Still, she and her mother were poor—poor enough to make them desire to leave
                    prying, gossiping Oldchurch, and settle in the solitude of some great town.
                    “There,” Olive said to herself, “I shall surely find means to work for her—that
                    she may have not merely necessaries, but comforts.” And many a night—during the
                    few weeks that elapsed before their home was broken up—she lay awake by her
                    sleeping mother's side, planning all sorts of schemes; arranging everything so
                    that Mrs. Rothesay's vacillating mind might not be annoyed with arguings or
                    consultations. When all was matured, she had only to say, “Dearest mother,
                    should we not be very happy living together in London?” And scarcely had Mrs.
                    Rothesay assented, than she found everything arranged itself, as under an
                    invisible fairy hand—so that she had but to ask, “My child, when shall we
                    go?”
                
                The time of departure at last arrived. It was the night but one before the sale.
                    Olive persuaded her mother to go to rest early; for she herself had a trying
                    duty to perform—the examining of her father's private papers. As she sat in his
                    study—solitude and darkness around her—the young girl might have been forgiven
                    many a pang of grief, even of superstitious fear. But Heaven had given her a
                    hero-soul, not the less heroic because in all things it was so entirely a
                    woman's.
                Her father's business-papers she had already examined: these were only his
                    private memoranda. But they were few; for, throughout his whole career, Captain
                    Rothesay had lived within himself. His thoughts never found vent in words; there
                    were no data of any kind to mark the history of a life, which was almost as
                        unknown to his wife and daughter as to any
                    stranger. Of letters, she found very few; he was not a man who loved
                    correspondence. Only, among these few, she was touched deeply to see some, dated
                    years back, at Stirling. Olive opened one of them. The delicate hand was that of
                    her mother when she was young. Olive only glanced at the top of the page, where
                    still smiled, from the worn, yellow paper, the words, “My dearest, dearest
                    Angus;” and then, too right-minded to penetrate further, folded it up again.
                    Yet, she felt glad; she thought it would comfort her mother to know how
                    carefully he had kept these letters. Soon after, she found a memento of
                    herself—a little curl, wrapped in silver-paper, and marked with his own hand,
                    “Olive's hair.” Her father had loved her then—aye, and more deeply than she
                    knew. It soothed her heart to 
                        re-
                        remember
                     member the love once borne to her by
                    the dead. She knew that no change could take that love from her
                    now.
                The chief thing which troubled Olive was the sight of the paper on which her
                    father's dying hand had scrawled “Harold.” No date of any kind had been found to
                    explain the mystery. Once she had tried to talk with her mother on the subject,
                    but it affected Mrs. Rothesay to a degree so agonising that Olive was obliged to
                    cease. She determined to think of the matter no more, but to put the paper by in
                    a secret drawer.
                In doing so, she found a small packet, carefully tied and sealed. She was about
                    to open it, when the superscription caught her eyes. Thereon she read her
                    father's solemn desire—nay, entreaty—that it should after his death be burnt
                        unopened.
                His faithful daughter fulfilled his will. 
                        In-
                        Instantly
                     stantly, without pausing to think,
                    she threw the packet on the fire; even turning aside, lest the flames, while
                    destroying, should reveal anything of the secret which seemed guarded by her
                    dead father's prayer. Only once, forgetting herself; the crackling fire made her
                    start and turn, and she caught a momentary glimpse of some curious foreign
                    ornament; while near it, twisted in the flame into almost life-like motion, was
                    what seemed a long lock of black hair. But she could be certain of nothing, she
                    hated herself for even that involuntary glance. It seemed an insult to the
                    dead.
                Still more did these remorseful feelings awake, when, her task being almost done,
                    she found one letter addressed thus:
                “For my daughter, Olive; but I charge her not to open it until she is alone in
                    the world.”
                
                Alone in the world! His fatherly tenderness had looked forward, then, even to
                    that bitter time which might come one day, when, her mother safely laid to rest,
                    Olive would be alone—a woman no longer young, without husband, or child, or
                    smiling home. She doubted not that her father had written this letter to counsel
                    and comfort her at such a season of desolation, years after he was in the
                    dust.
                His daughter blessed him for it; and her tender tears fell upon words which he
                    had written,as she saw by the date, on that night,—the last he ever spent at
                    home. She never thought of breaking his injunction, or of opening the letter
                    before the time; and after considering deeply, she decided that it was a mystery
                    too sacred even for the ear of her mother, to whom it would only give pain.
                    Therefore she placed it in the private drawer of her father's desk—now her
                    own—to wait until time should bring about the
                    revealing of this solemn secret between her and the dead.
                Then she went to bed, wearied and worn; and, creeping close to her slumbering
                    mother, thanked God that there was one warm living bosom to which she could
                    cling, and which would never cast her out.
                O mother! O daughter! who, when time has blended into an almost sisterly bond the
                    difference of years, grow together, united, as it were, in one heart and one
                    soul by that intense love which is beyond even “honour” and “obedience,” because
                    including both—how happy are ye! How blessed she, who, looking on her
                    daughter—woman grown—can say, “Child, thou art bone of my bone, and flesh of my
                    flesh, as when I brought thee into the world!” And thrice blessed is she who can
                    answer, “Mother, I am all thine own—I desire no love but thine—I bring to thee my every joy; and my every grief finds
                    rest on thy bosom.”
                Let those who know this happiness rejoice! Let those who only know its memory
                    pray always, that God would make that memory live, until the eternal meeting at
                    the resurrection of the just!
            
            END OF VOL. I.
        
    
