
     ----CITATION----
        Linton, E. Lynn (Elizabeth Lynn) (1822-1898). The Autobiography of Christopher Kirkland, Volume 2. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 287 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (12-October-1998).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7018
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHRISTOPHER KIRKLAND.
                
                BY MRS. LYNN LINTON,  AUTHOR OF ‘THE TRUE HISTORY OF
                    JOSHUA DAVIDSON,’ ‘PATRICIA KEMBALL,’ ‘THE ATONEMENT OF LEAM DUNDAS,’ ‘UNDER
                    WHICH LORD?’ ETC.
                IN THREE VOLUMES.
                VOL. II.
                
                    LONDON: 
                    RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON, Publishers in Ordinary to Her Majesty the
                        Queen.
                
                1885.
                [All Rights Reserved.]
            
        
        
        
            THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHRISTOPHER KIRKLAND.
            
                
                CHAPTER I.
                I WILL go on with my general reminiscences of persons, not keeping
                    strictly to chronology. I became as a child of the house in the family of
                    Captain Maconochie, that great and good inventor of the Mark System. He had then
                    just returned from Norfolk Island—the penal settlement of the penal settlements;
                    the lower deep of the lowest depths; that
                    veritable hell upon earth which he had made human and possible. He had been
                    deprived of his governorship by those at home who thought that to provide for
                    the moral improvement of criminals was to offend against justice, which should
                    be simply punitive.
                The whole question of prison discipline and the final cause of punishment has
                    undergone revision since then; and it was Captain Maconochie who started the
                    change. He, who after Howard had the most compassion for convicted criminals,
                    had, even more than Howard, breadth of view and administrative capacity. But the
                    grand idea of giving prisoners an interest in their own good conduct, and of
                    making Hope an element in the process of self-redemption, was unpalatable to the
                    official world. The actual system was founded on the basis of punishment pure
                    and simple, plus the deterring of others by example; the method was that of 
                        unin-
                        unindividualized
                     dividualized and unelastic coercion;
                    and the new view of self-reformation by rewarding voluntary well-doing was
                    looked on as offering an educational premium to vice, and making crime a
                    profitable moral investment. For do not minds follow the law of all the rest?
                    and is it fair to reform criminals and let honest men go wrong for want of
                    better teaching?
                It was the same in other things. When Captain Maconochie advocated certainty of
                    detection as more deterring to crime than severity of sentence, he was laughed
                    at as a dreamer; when he said: ‘Reform while you punish, and turn out a possibly
                    useful member of society, rather than a confirmed gaol-bird, sure to come back
                    to his foul roost,’ he was ridiculed as a crazy philanthropist who had lost the
                    just distinction between vice and virtue; when he wished to do away with
                    short-time sentences, he was met with the rights of the ratepayers; and everywhere he fell upon the dead wall of negation,
                    and found himself opposed and baffled.
                He was one of those men who fail in their own persons, but whose principles take
                    root and fructify—not to their own profit. The Home Office negatived his scheme;
                    but afterwards they allowed Sir Walter Crofton to try his Mark System, modified;
                    and the ticket-of-leave now granted is also only a modification of his more
                    comprehensive idea. It was painful to watch the uphill fight he carried on
                    against inertia here and active opposition there, and to know that all this
                    while a grand truth was being arrested and nullified by prejudice.
                His wife, as firmly convinced as he, and as good and sincere and earnest, went
                    for a little in this opposition, because of that fatal quality of exaggeration
                    which makes women such unreasoning partisans and dangerous auxiliaries. Thus,
                    she was an ardent homœopathist; and when she
                    visited the sick female prisoners in the borough gaol afterwards given her
                    husband to administer, she slipped surreptitious globules into their pockets, to
                    the discrediting of the orthodox system and the encouragement of rebellion
                    against the appointed healers. Her doings, when the medical authorities
                    discovered them, brought the whole thing down about their ears; but she
                    comforted herself for the loss she had occasioned by the consciousness of the
                    good of her cause; and the sentiment of martyrdom upheld her. She believed too
                    in mesmerism; she was a born proselytizer; and she had that kind of fervour in
                    her conviction which denies honesty to all opponents.
                My friends were full of interesting stories about the criminals whom they had
                    tamed, subdued and reformed by kindness; among whom, I remember, figured one
                    notorious ruffian, Jacky-Jacky, who had almost 
                        homi-
                        homicidal
                     cidal mania. Him they made their
                    gardener; and Mrs. Maconochie spoke of a certain creeping of the flesh when one
                    day she stood alone with Jacky-Jacky by the fruit-trees in their compound—he
                    armed with a bill-hook, and she defenceless. They had a family of delightful
                    boys, of whom the eldest was singularly handsome and good; and Captain
                    Maconochie used often to speak of this young fellow's purifying influence over
                    the roughest of the men, and how they checked their ribaldry in his presence
                    because of respect for his youth and purity, and listened to his Bible-reading
                    without a word that would have shocked a girl.
                It was the Christian law of kindness all through, rather than the old hard lex
                    talionis; and it answered so far as the men were concerned. But practical
                    Christianity is the worst investment a modern Christian can make; and to follow
                    the example or obey the precepts of Christ is even more disastrous than to doubt His divinity. And so my
                    friends found to their cost.
                In those days I held, with these dear people, that capital punishment was a
                    barbarism, and that the ‘worst use to which you can put a man is to hang him.’
                    Now I am not quite so sure. Life is only valuable for what it gives to the
                    individual or contributes to society; and life-long imprisonment cannot do much
                    for the one nor the other. And as there is always that inevitable ‘must’ at the
                    end, it makes little matter whether it comes a year or two sooner than need have
                    been, when the intrinsic worth of life has gone and there is no more hope for
                    the man himself. I did not think this then. I was too strong, too fully
                    vitalized, to regard death with other feelings than those of dread as well as
                    pity. But when the coloured glass of vigorous youth, through which one looks at
                    the large landscape of life, has been broken, one sees things more in reference to the whole, and less with
                    regard to the individual.
                But in those olden times we were warm anti-death punishers at my dear friends'
                    house, and just as warm believers in the restoration to righteousness of life
                    for those criminals who were properly directed. We were all humane, religious,
                    believing and unscientific. We had no faith in heredity, and we gave no weight
                    to environment. We believed in mind and soul and spirit; in heavenly influence
                    and divine grace; and we thought that miracles of moral healing could be worked
                    if only a pathway were made for this divine grace to enter and take
                    possession.
                If Captain Maconochie had been a less religious man, and if Mrs. Maconochie had
                    been a less logically sincere woman, they would have done better for themselves
                    and their great ideas than they did. The sword of the Lord and of Gideon is a
                        difficult weapon to wield at any time; and,
                    on the whole, biological facts and the hard common-sense views of men make more
                    practicable handles than faith in the influx of the Holy Spirit and the answer
                    of God to prayer.
                I knew the famous American actress who then divided London into two camps—the one
                    of admirers, the other of detractors. I will not say on which side I am. Things
                    cling about her name which it is as well not to disturb, and the grave, though
                    dumb, is the most potent of all advocates. And she had some superb qualities, if
                    she also had some that were low and mean. Of these last she had jealousy—that
                    lowest and meanest of all in the moral catalogue; and, for another, she had
                    ingratitude, and knew how to kick down, with consummate address, the ladder by
                    which she had mounted a stage higher. Her mother was the vulgarest old woman I
                    have ever seen. I remember a brief conversation with her which ran thus: The subject was an underhung, wriggling terrier
                    pup:—
                ‘My!’ said this old lady, looking curiously at the dog. ‘Why, it's
                    wopper-jawed!’
                ‘“Wopper-jawed”? What is that?’ I asked.
                ‘Why, don't you know!—like a wiggler!’
                ‘But what is a “wiggler”?’ I asked again.
                ‘Oh my! Not know!—du tell! A wopper-jawed wiggler—just like a pollywog out of a
                    hydrant!’
                The first time I heard the expression ‘talking the fifth wheel off a coach’ was
                    from her; and the way in which she used to eat lemons was what she herself would
                    have called ‘a caution.’
                Associated with her and her two daughters, in my mind, are a certain medical man
                    and his beautiful young wife. I knew this rather odd, as well as famous
                        American triad through them, and so the
                    association comes about. What charming days I used to have with these dear young
                    people! How handsome they both were!—and how young and happy we all were! As for
                    her, she was one of the most beautiful creatures under heaven, and as good as
                    she was lovely. I have seen the whole theatre turn round to look at her, and she
                    could not walk in the street without attracting more attention than she cared
                    for. She had the carriage of a young goddess or an old-time nymph; and her
                    character corresponded, in its fearless truth and unflinching honesty with the
                    wonderful nobility of her bearing. He too was a right good fellow; but though
                    she, alas! is dead, he is alive—and I do not like to mention the names of those
                    still living.
                Also I knew the ‘Raffaele-faced young bookseller’ whose hopes were so high and
                    whose aims were so lofty; and in his house I
                    met many of those who, then young and unknown, have since become world-famous.
                    Herbert Spencer; Marian Evans—our future incomparable George Eliot; William
                    Smith, or ‘Thorndale’ as he used to be called; Dr. Hodgson; Charles Bray; Dr.
                    Brabant; Edward Pigott;—these were among the stars rising or risen to be found
                    at that house. There too I met Froude, one of our best, if most prejudiced,
                    historians, master of style and eloquent Devil's Advocate as he is; and I
                    remember once seeing Mrs. Gaskell with her beautiful white arms bare to the
                    shoulder, and as destitute of bracelets as were her hands of gloves.
                Above all, I remember one special evening when Carlyle and Emerson were there,
                    and each had his own little circle of adorers clustered round him as he
                    harangued and perorated. The two great men did not speak to each other—only each
                    to his own special gathering; which was for all
                    the world like a swarm of bees clustered round their queen. I sat apart with
                    that soft-voiced, fair-skinned daughter of Dr. Devise of whom I have spoken
                    before, and wondered at the mental servility of these two groups—a mental
                    servility which I confess was to me more sickening than worshipful.
                Morris Moore's newly discovered ‘Raffaele’ was then almost as much a matter of
                    bitter controversy as it has been since; and the recognition of its genuineness
                    got somehow mixed up with party spirit and became a sign of identification. It
                    was engraved by Linton in the Leader newspaper; and perhaps that
                    was the reason why it was taken as a test of Liberalism.
                The establishment of that newspaper, by the way, was to all of us ardent youths
                    like the beginning of a moral and intellectual millennium. How ardent and eager
                    we all were! How bravely Thornton Hunt and
                    George Henry Lewes and other young lions roared in its columns!—and how
                    confident everyone was that it would supersede the Examiner and the
                        Athenæum, become a monumental success, and transform to its own
                    likeness all divergent public opinion! Oh! those fair false hopes of
                    youth!—those baseless visions of enthusiasm! What ‘strengthless heads’ of dead
                    loves have half the pathos that lies in these dead faiths! What a glorious
                    castle too, we built when the first International Exhibition was reared, and we
                    all believed that the reign of universal peace had begun, and the death-knell of
                    international strife had sounded! And how all these brilliant hopes and
                    iridescent faiths have gone into space, with nothing left as the residuum save
                    disappointment!
                About this time came to all of us who were known to be unorthodox a certain
                    private and confidential circular bearing Thornton Hunt's name. It had for
                        its object the foundation of a
                    quasi-masonic community—a kind of cryptic church of free-thought, where the
                    unpublished members should be able to recognise each other, and by their aid and
                    counsel support such as were weak before the social trials inevitable to denial.
                    This scheme also fell to the ground, and never went beyond that printed
                    appeal.
                With others, I became an intimate in the house of Mrs. Milner Gibson, that
                    large-hearted woman who opened her doors to all the exiled patriots that flocked
                    to England as their only safe asylum, and who was as a crowned Queen wandering
                    through Bohemia. She was one of the most prominent features of London society in
                    her day, and went through the appointed phases of the widest Liberalism, the
                    most marked Bohemianism, the most mystical spiritualism, and the most fervent
                    Catholicism, proper to her kind. But in each and all the generous heart, the loving nature, the wide, full charity of divine
                    sympathy and pity, remained unchanged.
                At her house I met, in their due time, Mazzini, Louis Blanc, Kossuth, Klapka,
                    Pulszky, the Sicilian exiles—notably the Scalias—to mention only a few of the
                    most famous. But when the well-known floating medium got hold of her, her salon
                    was given up to table-turning and séances, wherein she herself was the most
                    deceived and the most credulous. Great efforts were made to convince me of the
                    truth of the phenomena exhibited. I was young, ardent, and a press-man; hence I
                    should have been so far a valuable ally. But though I went diligently to these
                    séances, and was quite prepared to believe in their genuineness, I never saw
                    anything that might not have been done by trick—neither there nor elsewhere.
                I was at this house when the notorious
                    levitating medium was said to have floated to the ceiling. The story is simply
                    this. Mr. Hume was in his usual place at the end of the chain of experimenters,
                    where the circular-table touched the jamb of the window—leaving a free space
                    between him and Mademoiselle, the governess, who always sat opposite to him. Our
                    hostess was always on his left hand. The room was almost pitch-dark—lighted only
                    from the distant lamp in the mews, which this window faced. Suddenly Mr. Hume
                    left his seat and came over to where I was sitting. He leaned over my chair and
                    spoke to my neighbour and me, saying that the spirits were preparing something,
                    he did not know what. The next moment we heard the sound of a piece of furniture
                    moving across the room. It was a light chaise
                        longue, which stood by the wall in a line with our chairs.
                ‘The spirits want me to get on this,’ he said;
                    and forthwith he sat down on the couch.
                There was a certain man in the company, called Smith, of Peckham, who had been an
                    atheist, but whom Mr. Hume had converted to spiritualism and Christianity. To
                    him this medium was a Christ. He clasped his hands and knelt on the ground.
                ‘Let me go too!’ he said, praying the Lord rather than making a request to his
                    brother man.
                His High Priest gave a rather ungracious assent, and the two moved off; but Smith
                    of Peckham was found to be inconvenient, so was soon sent back to his old place
                    at the table.
                There was a large mirror over a console-table at the end of the wall, facing the
                    window; and near to this was a heavy old-fashioned ottoman, with a strong and
                    serviceable centre-piece.
                In a short time Mr. Hume said he was floating up
                    to the ceiling; and in the dim light of the room we could see that a dark body
                    was between us and the mirror. The voice seemed to ascend, and we heard the
                    sound of a slight scratching. Then the voice came down. Mr. Hume said he had
                    scratched a cross on the ceiling, and called for lights. There was a great hunt
                    for the small grains of plaster on the floor, and the case was recorded in the
                    spiritualist journal as an undoubted instance of floating.
                There was nothing to have prevented Mr. Hume from drawing the chaise longue to him by means of a string round the
                    front two legs; moving it by his own feet and muscles; standing on the
                    centre-piece of the ottoman; and, with a knife tied to the end of a stick,
                    scratching a cross on the ceiling. The rest was easy to ventriloquism and
                    certain to credulity.
                At other times he showed the hands—luminous hands—which Mademoiselle, the governess, said she felt forming themselves in
                    her dress. These hands played with the tassel and strings of the blinds, and
                    were phosphorescent. One, coal-black, was the emblem of superstition;
                    another—covered with what they all said was a spiritual veil or refulgent kind
                    of mask, and a cambric pocket-handkerchief—was the sign of faith. But as no one
                    was allowed to investigate, and as to express doubt would have been impolite,
                    things were received with acclaim by most of those present, and only a few of us
                    had the honesty of silence.
                Capable of being made into a useful ally, could I but be caught, Mr. Hume
                    arranged one séance for my benefit. This was the first at which I was present. I
                    must explain the foundations. One of my friends had had a little child of which
                    I had been passionately fond. It had been named after me; I had adopted it for
                    my own; and the whole story was patent to the world. At the time of which I write the child was dead, and
                    the mother was a hopeless invalid. By all my own people I had always been called
                    Chris, or Christie. By our hostess and the whole group of her friends, who were
                    mine, and by this group only, I was called Crishna. The child had been
                    christened Christopher, and was called Christie.
                In the midst of the usual array of luminous hands, this night, came a round
                    shining thing which Mademoiselle, the governess, and Mr. Hume, the medium, both
                    cried out at once was a child's head. For whom? The guests were numbered, and
                    the spirits rapped when I was indicated. This spiritual child was for me. This
                    was my first personal experience of a thing of this kind, and for the moment I
                    was overcome.
                ‘This means a little child of whom I was very fond,’ I said in a half-whisper to
                    my neighbour. ‘It was called after me and dedicated to me.’
                
                ‘Yes,’ said Mr. Hume, as if speaking in a dream. He was in a trance. ‘This little
                    child was Crishna on earth, as it is Crishna in heaven, and its mother thanks
                    you in heaven for your loving care of it on earth. She is standing by you now,
                    blessing you and watching over you.’
                She was in her own bed, poor body, incapable of either blessing or watching over
                    even herself!
                This bad shot saved me from all after danger of credulity, and left me with a
                    clear mind and untroubled senses to watch and weigh all that I saw.
                Robert Bell was one of the most convinced of Mr. Hume's dupes. He expatiated
                    warmly on the supernatural power which enabled a pencil to lie—on a clinging
                    velvet cloth—without rolling off when the table was tilted to a certain angle. I
                    tried the experiment at home, and found that by careful manipulation I could
                    tilt my own table at even a more acute angle
                    than the medium had done, and that neither the pencil nor the glasses would
                    fall.
                When I said this to Robert Bell he was exceedingly angry, and what had been a
                    very pleasant friendship came to an abrupt and sudden end.
                Poor old Dr. Ashburner too, had it much at heart to convert me to the faith; and
                    at his house I saw, among others, the medium who writhed like a demoniac when
                    the spirits were writing in red letters on his large white fine-skinned arm a
                    name that should carry conviction to the soul of the unbeliever.
                This man had two tricks—that of this skin-writing, which was soon found out; and
                    that of reading with the tips of his fingers the names written on small pieces
                    of paper, folded up into pellets and flung into a heap on the table. This
                    sleight-of-hand was respectable; but I caught the trick, and told Dr. Ashburner what I had seen. The dear old man did
                    not believe me and he did believe Mr. Foster, the medium, even after he found
                    out that he had been in prison for felony.
                I could fill a volume with my spiritualistic experiences, suspicions, and silent
                    detections of imposture. I have never seen anything whatever that might not have
                    been done by trick and collusion, and I have seen almost all the mediums. Never,
                    anywhere, has there been allowed the smallest investigation, nor have the most
                    elementary precautions been taken against imposture; and the amount of patent
                    falsehood swallowed open-mouthed has been to me a sorry text on which to preach
                    a eulogium on our enlightenment.
                Yet all the time I was yearning to believe—to be forced by irrefragable proofs to
                    accept one undoubted authority, which would have ended for ever certain
                        gnawing pains. Those proofs never came. On
                    the contrary, with every séance at which I assisted came increased certainty of
                    imposture. And yet, now, at the end of it all, though I have never seen a medium
                    who was not a patent trickster, I believe that there is an uncatalogued and
                    perhaps undeveloped human force, which makes what the Americans call a magnetic
                    man, and which is the substratum of truth underlying the falsehoods of
                    spiritualism, the deceptions of hysteria, and the romances of religious fervour.
                    We have not said the final word yet on the development of man; and this
                    uncatalogued force may be one of the chief factors in the sum of future
                    progress.
                So far there may be truth in what we hear; but when heavy women are brought
                    bodily through the air and dropped clean through roofs and walls; when notes fly
                    from India to London; and when spirits
                    materialize themselves and put on hair which is made up of cells and fibres and
                    pigments like growing human hair, and dress in clothes well-cut and stitched
                    together with ordinary thread, beside being loaded with Manchester
                    dressing—then, I think, the common-sense of the world should revolt in
                    indignation at these patent falsehoods and frauds, and the weak should be
                    protected from the cruel craft of the unscrupulous.
                What will not people believe? I remember poor old Dr. Ashburner telling me a
                    story of how once, when he was sitting alone at night, in sore perplexity as to
                    ways and means, a knock came to the street door. He opened it, and saw on the
                    pavement an unknown man bestriding a black horse. Without a word this visitor
                    silently thrust into his hand a packet of Bank of England notes, then dashed off
                    down the street and was no more seen. The notes were to the value of five hundred pounds, and were given by the
                    spirits.
                If so, were those spirits thieves or forgers? For these Bank of England notes
                    must have been stolen, either from the Bank itself or from some private person;
                    or, if made by the spirits themselves, they were forgeries and the Bank would
                    have to suffer. But, because the transactions of the Bank of England—like those
                    of nature—are so large as to appear illimitable to us, we do not realize that
                    not one single five-pound note is issued without the utmost accuracy of
                    registration and balance; and that therefore a spiritual theft or forgery of
                    five hundred pounds would as certainly be detected, and would as certainly
                    result in the loss of some individual, as if it had been money taken out of
                    one's own private purse.
                It was, however, like arguing against the miracle of the loaves and fishes
                        because corn is made only by translation of
                    material through assimilation, and is built up cell by cell—and fishes cannot be
                    fashioned without milt and spawn and development, save at the cost of upsetting
                    the whole balance of everything. The dear old man only lamented my blindness,
                    which far exceeded his own, he said sorrowfully. But my Sadduceeism was
                    immovable, and I could not see my way to the spiritual origin of those bank
                    notes—if indeed they ever existed out of the realms of fancy at all. For after
                    he became blind, and his imagination was neither checked nor controlled by his
                    senses, Dr. Ashburner fell into that state of mental haze where the boundary
                    lines between fact and fancy are clean swept away.
                What crowds of people, and what multitudes of drawing-rooms come before me, like
                    shapes and shadows passing over a mirror! Handsome Harrison Ainsworth, with his
                    choice little dinners at Kensal Green; Dr.
                    Quin, that prince of diners-out and king of good fellows; Douglas Jerrold, keen,
                    witty, sarcastic, yet kind-hearted; those Sunday evenings at Thornton Hunt's,
                    where used to be met that Reader, who always reminded me of the Spanish proverb
                    which bids you beware of the man who speaks softly and writes harshly; for Mr.
                    Williams, with the softest, sleekest, silkiest manner in the world, had the most
                    trenchant pen, and could cut your very heart out when he refused your manuscript
                    for his firm:—All are gone now; and of many almost even the very remembrance has
                    died out.
                Who now remembers that fine old lady, in her quaint old-world costume, who had
                    been married to one of the notabilities of his day, and was herself a notability
                    in her own? whose son-in-law was also a celebrity? and whose daughter is still
                    one of the standing marvels as well as one of the charms of London society? How
                    well I remember her friendly interest in me,
                    and how, when I once kissed her hand, she patted my face and thanked me. At her
                    daughter's house I first met one of our since most famous painters. He was a
                    mere lad then, very handsome, and very unused to society. He wore a frock-coat
                    buttoned to the chin; black gloves; and his boots showed that he had been
                    walking, and that the streets were muddy. The whole mise-en-scène of his life is rather of a different character
                    now!
                Then there was that celebrity-loving lady who was always supposed to have been
                    the original of Mrs. Leo Hunter. Her husband had lost his large fortune in some
                    South American mines, but they still ‘saw people.’ At her house I met poor Miss
                    Pardoe, who took the substance for the shadow, and spent on society the proceeds
                    which she should have husbanded for old age, to find, when too late, that
                    fashion is about the worst bank in which you can invest. She had very small feet, of which, woman-like, she was
                    proud; and I can yet see the dainty coquettishness of her pale blue satin
                    slippers and the art with which she kept them well in view.
                Here I met the two Misses Strickland—Agnes, with her ringlets and look of faded
                    prettiness, accepting homage as one who had been used to it all her life;
                    Elizabeth, sturdy, plain, devoted, self-effacing, the one who did the real work
                    while giving to her sister all the honour. She lived only for that sister's
                    pleasure and in her success; and she really idolized her. I shall never forget
                    my own surprise when one day she turned to me, with a look of supreme devotion
                    on her good, plain, hard-featured face, and said—every word like a caress—‘How
                    pretty Agnes looks to-day!’
                Once I was taken to see Miss Jane Porter, then living in a little street in
                    Bayswater. She was in her bedroom, dressed in
                    black, and I think she wore a white cap underneath a long black scarf over her
                    head. I was considerably awed by her presence and manner, and I felt as if I had
                    been in one of Mrs. Radcliffe's rooms. She was an eerie, ghastly old lady, and
                    she had that stagey and stately manner of the old school which impresses young
                    people so painfully—impresses and crushes them.
                Then there was that pretty little wife of the Q.C., with her trim figure,
                    childish shoulders, youthful manners, and plain-featured daughters—whom she
                    suppressed. She was one of my social godmothers, and stood sponsor for me in
                    more houses than one. She took me, inter alia, to Sir Charles Babbage's, telling
                    me on the way that he admitted to his evening parties only pretty women and
                    distinguished men. The compliment was two-edged, and pleased both her and me
                    alike.
                Her sister was that famous widow who spent her
                    substance in searching for the remains of her still more famous husband. But, as
                    was often said, she built her own monument when she manned her ships and
                    organized her expeditions; and she wrote her epitaph in her conjugal constancy.
                    Nevertheless, I believe it is an open secret that when they were together she
                    and Sir John did not live quite like turtle-doves.
                Then there was the barrister, so well known in society, who has now become a
                    legal power and has attained high dignity. What charming parties he gave in his
                    pleasant chambers! He got together notorieties of every kind, and levelled
                    social distinctions as smooth as a bowling-green. I remember one evening when he
                    introduced sherry cobbler, then a novelty, and when we tried our skill in
                    guessing the face, whereof we saw only the eyes through two holes in the
                    curtain. We all knew Mr. Urquhart's and Chisholm Anstey's.
                
                A strange little drama was then going on behind the scenes of that barrister's
                    life. It was not so much behind the scenes, however, as to be concealed from the
                    whole world; and there were many of the initiated who assisted at its
                    representation. The curtain was rung down one evening, when, pale as his own
                    white gloves, he stood by the door of a certain pretty and popular woman's
                    drawing-room in Belgravia, and saw enter the lady of his long-time love, leaning
                    on the arm of his triumphant rival and accepted successor. He took his public
                    displacement like a gentleman, and effaced himself without a word of complaint
                    or reproach.
                I went to the house of Serjeant Talfourd, to whom women owe so much, and who
                    added heroic poetry to his legal reforms and well-considered Bills; and I
                    remember how he kept up the traditions of the then past generation, and came
                    into the drawing-room with a thick speech and unsteady legs.
                
                Then, in strong contrast to all this, I was proselytized by Mrs. Schimmelpennick,
                    whose mystical piety oppressed and chilled me—taking, as I thought it did, all
                    the colour and backbone out of life. I was too full of the fire of youth to
                    accept her quietism and self-suppression—which had not in it the active force of
                    voluntary stoicism. Nor had it the etherealized passion, the sublime poetry,
                    which had characterized the spirituality of Adeline Dalrymple. This had been the
                    fiery essence of passionate love purified from all earthly grossness; but here I
                    felt only the congelation, the paralysis, the death of life.
                The most intrinsically remarkable of all my friends at this time was a certain
                    Mrs. Hulme—a woman not in the fore-front anywhere, though she was incomparably
                    the cleverest, the most brilliant, and the most original of my whole circle of
                    acquaintances. She wanted only that energy
                    which springs from respect for humanity and consequent regard for success—that
                    energy we call ambition—to have become as famous in her own way as a second
                    Madame du Deffand or another De Stael. She was a distant cousin of the Kings,
                    and she therefore felt bound, she said, to be dry-nurse and bear-leader to all
                    their cubs.
                ‘And as you, my dear,’ she said to me one day, with her curious little smile,
                    cynical for the one part, humorous for the other, ‘are a cub who want a great
                    deal of licking into intellectual shape, I shall be glad to do what I can for
                    you. So come to all my Tuesday evenings, and as often as you like in the week
                    besides. I shall be always glad to see you, for you amuse me—I might almost say
                    you interest me.’
                And of this permission I was not slow to avail myself. If society were my
                    favourite primer, I had nowhere such queer pages to decipher as here. All the other people I knew were
                    tame and common-place compared to those I met at Mrs. Hulme's; and I date many
                    of my after-views in life to my acquaintance with her and hers.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER II.
                THE people who crowded Mrs. Hulme's unaired and undecorated drawing-room
                    were, to say the least of it, oddly mixed. Among good, steady, high-nosed folk,
                    with whom conventional propriety was as sacred as the Decalogue and the religion
                    of white kid gloves that for which they had the most practical respect, were to
                    be found seedy foreigners who had no investments outside their sharpened wits;
                    obscure artists whom the Academy rejected and the picture-dealers would not
                    endorse; shabby literati, said to be capable of great things but achieving only small ones, and living by methods
                    unknown to men of letters in the mass; handsome women, with invisible husbands
                    and curiously constant male friends; unengaged actresses, whose jewels, fine
                    dresses and pretty little broughams did not suffer from their enforced want of
                    work; and every shade and kind of Bohemianism extant. There were no limits to
                    the breadth and depth of Mrs. Hulme's hospitality; and as there were no
                    restraints, from dress to certificates, and the only stipulation demanded was
                    the power to amuse or the capacity for being amused, she got round her what Mr.
                    King called a ‘job lot’—and a job lot of even more unscoured character than that
                    which Silk Buckingham drew into the net of his famous Institute.
                Her evenings were singularly pleasant. There was always good music by
                    professionals, for whom this was a kind of unpaid and unfruitful advertisement.
                        Sometimes there was an impromptu charade;
                    or a pretty aspirant gave the walking scene of Lady Macbeth, or Juliet on the
                    balcony, as a proof of her powers—if only that stout sleek impresario in the
                    huge white waist-coat and heavy golden chain would make her the leading lady at
                    so much the week. Or a clever imitator reproduced Buckstone, or O. Smith, Paul
                    Bedford or Webster, Wright or Liston, Farren, ‘Little Munden,’ or Robson, to the
                    life, and the stock catch-words ‘brought down the house’ as at the real thing.
                    Sometimes there was a spell of table-turning, or of mesmeric experiments, when
                    young sensitives acted according to order, and proved the truth of craniology by
                    showing love or hate, devotion or disdain, as this bump was touched or that
                    indicated. And always there was plenty of wit and laughter, with a subtle
                    suspicion of garlic and tobacco, and an ever-present sense of hunger and
                    impecuniosity.
                
                The steady folk were scandalized by the free-and-easy tone of these evenings, as
                    well as by the slightly ragamuffin look of some of the guests, and the more than
                    slightly doubtful antecedents and conditions of most of them. But as Mrs. Hulme
                    was a woman of good birth, passably rich, heirless, and of an age when scandal
                    had ceased to make merry with her name—it had made very merry indeed in times
                    past—she somehow managed to hold on with respectability, while she towed her
                    queer cargo behind and kept her own head above water.
                She had lived a great deal abroad, where it was supposed she had adopted her
                    loose ways and put off more than her English stays. And the pernicious influence
                    of all that bad foreign example to which she had been subjected was her excuse
                    with those who could not approve yet would not renounce. Thus, nothing worse was said of her, by even the strictest of the
                    Pharisees who consorted with her, than:
                ‘What a pity it is that Mrs. Hulme knows such very odd people! She is really too
                    kind-hearted and indiscriminate!’
                If they were odd, however, they were all, according to their hostess, personages
                    of latent distinction and the unrecognised geniuses of the future. What a
                    hot-bed of compressed talent it was!—the crozier heads of forth-coming
                    far-spreading fronds! What nameless Raffaeles in long hair and thread-bare coats
                    discoursed learnedly on ‘method’ and ‘touch,’ ‘technique’ and ‘morbidezza;’ on
                    Turner's skies and Stansfield's seas; on Chalon's grace and Etty's flesh-tints;
                    on the power of Maclise and the versatility of Mulready! What cotyledonous
                    Beethovens sprung the notes and broke the strings of that Broadwood ‘grand’
                    which was Mrs. Hulme's most important bit of furniture!— and what fascinating Malibrans that were to be sang
                    ‘Robert! toi que j'aime!’ looking at that stout impresario in the big white
                    waistcoat, who had their fortune in his pocket if only he would put his hand
                    therein to find it!
                And those black-bearded counts and fair-haired barons, with coats buttoned to the
                    chin and not a line of linen to swear by—they were all great men in their own
                    country, and most of them were inventive geniuses, with that potential wealth
                    beyond the dreams of avarice we have heard of so often before, in the shape of
                    unpatented inventions—wanting but so few pounds to set agoing for the certain
                    realization of those dreams! Among them were some good ideas which have since
                    been taken up and worked out into practicality. But it is sad to think that many
                    a germ of what is now an accomplished fact, bringing an enormous fortune to the
                    manipulator, had its origin in the brains of
                    these poor unfriended foreigners,who scarcely knew where to get the bread and
                    meat that should keep body and soul together.
                Mrs. Hulme herself, always sitting in her own especial arm-chair by the
                    fireplace, was not the least remarkable in an assembly where no one was
                    common-place. She was a woman of about seventy, whose love of personal ease had
                    conquered all that personal vanity some vestige of which most women keep to the
                    end of time. She was loose and stout, and with no more shape than the typical
                    sack tried round the middle. Her grey hair was thin and wispy, and brushed
                    straight off her bold full brow; and she wore no cap, as do other women of her
                    age, but only a small black lace kerchief, tied round her face and knotted under
                    her chin. She was always dressed in black stuff, with a grey woollen knitted
                    shawl on her shoulders. She wore black mittens on her soft white flaccid hands;
                    and among her numerous old-fashioned rings was
                    one large onyx. This she said held her quietus.
                ‘The day when I can no longer laugh,’ she said to me quite cheerfully; ‘the day
                    when I have to confess that I am beaten, that life is at last played out, and
                    that humanity has become to me more revolting than ridiculous—then I shall open
                    this and bid you all “Good-night.”’
                She made no secret of her intention to commit suicide when life should be no
                    longer enjoyable. She had no fancy for dregs, she used to say, with her strange
                    laugh, at once so cynical and so pleasure-loving, so mocking, so sensual and so
                    humorous. And the knowledge that she could die when she chose, without pain or
                    confusion, helped her to live. It was her staff of strength, without which the
                    road would be both rough and tiresome—and perhaps already too long.
                I may as well say here as later, that she
                    carried out her intention, and did one night take that great leap into the dark
                    which she always said she would take when tired of the light. When she found out
                    that she had an internal tumour, which would probably become cancerous, she put
                    her affairs in order; gave her last Bohemian evening, where she surpassed
                    herself in the audacity of her speech and the brilliancy of her wit; and then,
                    with her finger between the pages of her pocket Rabelais, she drew down the
                    thick curtain between herself and the House of Life, and so ended the play for
                    ever. She left all she possessed to the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
                    Animals, and other kindred institutions; dumb brutes being, according to her,
                    less bestial than men.
                She was the first person I had ever heard speak of suicide in this philosophical
                    manner—as a thing to be discussed like any other—an act of free will and
                    intelligence, good or evil according to
                    conditions, but not necessarily a sin, a mystery, a shame, a dread. And her
                    words made on me one of those ineffaceable impressions which are the birth-hours
                    of thought.
                Of course the first time she spoke to me I was shocked—and more. My father had
                    never mentioned the subject without horror, as murder of the worst kind—impiety
                    of the most damnable character—the one sin which could never be repented of.
                    Cato might be pardoned, because Cato was a heathen; but a Christian who had the
                    true knowledge was outside the pale of forgiveness—and God Himself had limited
                    His own power. But the thing was altogether forbidden; and even discussion was
                    an irreligious tampering with evil. It was to be simply abhorred in silence,
                    like any other infamy. Yet I remember when a poor fellow, a clergyman, cut his
                    throat not far from Eden, my dear father would not allow a harsh word to be spoken of him, but said
                    only:
                ‘The mercy of God is infinite. Let him who is without sin cast the first
                    stone.’
                For here, as so often in his life, personal charity was stronger than dogmatic
                    harshness, and the man pitied what the theologian condemned.
                Of this teaching I naturally retained the impress, and looked on self-murder as
                    one of those crimes which have no two sides and for which there is no kind of
                    palliation. And now, here was Mrs. Hulme calmly upholding not only the moral
                    right, but even the social value, of suicide, and proclaiming her own intention
                    of one day practising what she professed!
                Two years ago a new arithmetic would have seemed to me as possible as a new moral
                    code. Theology might be, and was, an uncertain quantity, but morality was as
                    fixed as the everlasting hills. But now, I
                    confess it, my absolutes were beginning to dissolve. My old principles were
                    laughed out of court by my Paphian friends the Free-lovers, with whom the
                    sanctity of marriage was effaced in favour of the imperialism of love—by the
                    hedonism of Mrs. Hulme, with whom duty was a superstition and pleasure the final
                    cause and great end of existence.
                Yet these people were neither criminals nor savages. They were thoughtful,
                    kindly, cultivated, conscientious; and the ordinary theological writ about the
                    depravity of the human heart did not run among them. Still, they made morality
                    discretionary and not compulsory; and changed the granite stability of right and
                    wrong into a nebulous kind of individualism, where all was convertible according
                    to convenience, and nothing was radical and superior to conditions.
                Thus it was that I first began to see the moral
                    law as a question of evolution and social arrangement, void of extrinsic divine
                    ordination—that, while recognising some laws as better and making more for
                    progress than others, I had to confess, also, that nowhere has been said the
                    final word, and that nothing has received its last and unchangeable form—that
                    everything on earth is relative—from colour by juxtaposition, to crime by the
                    circumstances surrounding it.
                In manner Mrs. Hulme was kindly, brusque, unconventional, familiar. She never
                    rose from her chair, let who would enter the room; and she kept a seat
                    immediately behind her for her favourite of the evening, to whom she laughed and
                    talked over her shoulder. That beside her was for the last comer, who was
                    expected to vacate it when another visitor entered. If he delayed, he was
                    ordered off without ceremony. She called women by their Christian names, and men by their surnames, without prefix or
                    distinctive title; and she treated all young people like children, rebuking,
                    encouraging or caressing, according to her mood, as if these young heroes had
                    been so many boy-babies at her knee.
                In religion an atheist; in theoretical politics a socialist; despising human
                    nature, and therefore tolerant of its weaknesses and indifferent to its vices;
                    mocking, cynical, irreverent; without tenderness of sentiment to make her
                    sympathetic with earnestness, yet marvellously kind-hearted and generous to
                    excess, she stripped every question that she touched of all sacredness, all
                    mystery, all poetry, all divinity, and reduced it to a standard as prosaic as
                    the market-price of a pound of tallow-candles. She scoffed at the idea of hidden
                    mysteries, and denied the peculiar sacredness of things because they are
                    unknown. She saw no difference in kind, only in degree, and swept the whole universe into the same abyss of
                    contempt.
                ‘The Divine Life to be found in bugs and blue-bottles?’ she said with her mocking
                    laugh when I, still under the influence of Adeline Dalrymple, spoke as I had
                    been taught. ‘So you make yourself a deicide every time you catch the one or
                    scrunch the other? The Divine Life energizing itself in a stinging-nettle or a
                    dandelion? What rubbish! Reduce your pretty fancy to reason, and you will find
                    that your divinity means, on the one hand, bigness and complexity of organism—on
                    the other, that which pleases and profits yourself. You vapour about the
                    beauty—a condition of the Divine Life—of a lily; but you will dig up and destroy
                    that stinging-nettle aforesaid. A beautiful woman is of course very divine—but
                    that flea biting her neck? that midge making a bump on her forehead? Pshaw! You
                    have a great deal yet to learn, my dear boy,
                    and a great deal more to unlearn. We shall have to scrape those brains of yours
                    clear of all the superstitious whitewash plastered over them, if you are to do
                    any good in life or see things as they are.’
                ‘Say what you will,’ I answered, ‘there must be something at the back of
                    creation; and life did not come of itself.’
                ‘How do you know that?’ she said drily. ‘If you do not know one thing you do not
                    know another; and one unlighted candle is as good as another when you are in a
                    dark room and have no matches.’
                According to Mrs. Hulme, we come from nothing and return to nothing—or, rather,
                    we are simply old material re-combined and re-incorporate. We are mere phenomena
                    of the hour—mere phantasmagoria in time and appearances flitting though space—no
                    more stable than clouds, no more individually valuable than so many melon seeds.
                    If any secret meaning lies at the back of life,
                    we have not found the key yet, and never shall. But she denied any secret
                    meaning at all, and treated the whole thing as a huge cosmic joke and energized
                    satire.
                ‘A fortuitous concourse of atoms—creatures bound by the material circumstances
                    which have formed them—brought into the world without their own consent and by
                    no action of theirs—dependent on time and place, food, parentage, and weather
                    for what they are and do—and then credited with an immortal soul to be punished
                    or rewarded for deeds done in the flesh!—those deeds as necessarily the result
                    of material conditions over which the individual has no more control than has
                    the acorn when it springs into an oak and not an ash—than has the piece of wax
                    when it is moulded into the likeness of Jupiter, or battered out into the mask
                    of Silenus! What logic! What reasoning! And this is the nineteenth century! And
                    you are one of those who “lead public opinion.”
                    The blind leading the blind, with a vengeance, and the ditch as the
                    consequence!’
                ‘But what do you make of free-will?’ I asked. ‘We all have free-will, and can
                    choose the bad or the good at pleasure; we are not the mere slaves of material
                    conditions.’
                She measured my head with her two hands. Among other things, she was a
                    phrenologist, and believed in George Combe as well as in Lavater.
                ‘A simple question of proportion,’ she said. ‘Intellectual, moral, animal:—which
                    of the three is largest, there will be the thing you call “free-will”; that is,
                    self-governance through the preponderance of the intellect—passions which are
                    uncontrollable because of the weight of the cerebellum—or the higher range of
                    social instincts because of the size of the coronal region. The mind is like a
                    muscle—it cannot go beyond its own power. A
                    weak arm cannot raise a heavy weight; a small intellectual and moral development
                    cannot overcome a large animal region. The doctrine of free-will, like all the
                    rest of human life, is a delusion. It has its economic uses. So has the belief
                    in heaven and hell—in the eve of God and the claws of the devil. But economic
                    uses, because men are ignorant and therefore superstitious, do not make a lie
                    the truth, nor delusion a reality.’
                ‘Then you would destroy the conscience?’ I asked.
                ‘What is conscience?’ she returned. ‘The public opinion and fleeting ideas of a
                    certain time and era individualized. Is that an absolute?’
                ‘If it is not, then all human virtue goes to the wall,’ I answered. ‘Your
                    theories leave us neither spiritual influence nor eternal laws of right—neither
                    truth nor conscience.’
                
                She laughed in her mocking Voltairean way.
                ‘Eternal laws of right, spiritual influence, truth, the absolute, conscience!’
                    she said. ‘And pray, my dear, what do you make of any of these, outside external
                    conditions? Point me out one virtue which has not been merely the expression of
                    the needs of the time, cherished because of social exigencies;—tell me of one
                    that has been absolute from the beginning anywhere, and in all stages of
                    civilization—and then we can talk of the divine illumination of conscience and
                    the eternal rule of right. Go over the list. Truth, which is the most necessary
                    of all as the mutual defence-work and protection between man and man—the
                    concordat of society and the basis of association; Chastity, on which the family
                    is founded, the family being in its turn the foundation of society; Justice,
                    which is the taproot of law—these, the very elements of all the rest, are 
                        es-
                        essentially
                     sentially geographical,
                    chronological, social. So also is magnanimity; so charity, liberty, patriotism,
                    temperance—and all the rest. The whole fabric from end to end is a matter of
                    growth and modification; and this absolute rightness, this divine illumination
                    of the conscience, about which you ecstatics talk such egregious nonsense, is
                    the mere result of external education, like proficiency in mathematics or clever
                    combinations in chemistry.’
                ‘Then right and wrong do not exist?’ I said.
                ‘As unchangeable principles?—no!’ was her answer. ‘Where do you find them? In the
                    Bible? Surely there least of all! But in no place—none! Polygamy, honoured as
                    well as lawful in the East, is prostitution in the West. Mohammed sanctified
                    what David and Solomon and the patriarchs had all practised and what Christ and
                    later Judaism forbade. Who is to choose between
                    the two systems, and pronounce arbitrarily on either? Slavery, supposed by the
                    Jews to have been expressly sanctioned—and limited—by Jehovah; practised by all
                    barbarous peoples and a main feature in the civilization of Greece and Rome;
                    upheld in the United States as morally allowable, divinely ordained, and
                    valuable for the general good—has become to us of late years an accursed thing,
                    and we have put it away from us. But the doctrine of a man and a brother is one
                    of quite modern growth. It is not even essentially Christian. Yet before the
                    rights of man were preached you cannot say that slavery was a crime. There can
                    be no fault where there is no better knowledge. You might as well say that
                    belief in dreams, touching for the king's evil, or any other foolish outcome of
                    superstition, was a crime. It was only ignorance. And he who would condemn ignorance must begin with the new-born
                    babe.’
                ‘You make life very uncertain, and leave no solid foot-hold anywhere,’ I
                    said.
                ‘Do you think so? I do not. On the contrary, I find in my belief the greatest
                    certitude,’ she answered.
                ‘How? Where?’ I asked.
                She laughed again.
                ‘In a paradox, my dear—in the universal phantasmagoria and mirage that it all
                    is—the universal delusion and maze of everything,’ she said. ‘There is no
                    reality except illusion. There is no absolute standard—only the opinion of the
                    day; and morality, truth and right, change their names and dresses according to
                    time and place, just as our winter is the Australian summer, and the despised
                    donkey of the London costermonger is the honoured ass of the Eastern dignitary.
                    We are no better than blind puppies abandoned by their mother, and we know very
                        little more than they. We do not even
                    understand the material of the basket in which we find ourselves, nor our
                    relations with the rest of the stable where we have been littered.’
                ‘I cannot push God out of the world,’ I said. ‘He is the Absolute; He is the
                    Truth; the Life of the universe and the Soul of the soul of man
                        ’!
                        ’!
                    
                ‘All in capitals?’ she said, lifting her upper lip, but with no sting in her
                    good-tempered contempt. ‘All right; I congratulate you, my dear boy. You have
                    found the key to the riddle which the world has so long sought in vain. Give me
                    your talisman. Teach me your method. It is worth knowing.’
                ‘My talisman?—Love!’ I answered fervently, thinking of Adelina Dalrymple.
                ‘Yes? love? Love of what?—of whom? Love between the sexes?—sometimes not a very
                    celestial matter,’ she said.
                
                ‘Love in Nature,‘ I repeated.
                ‘So!’ she said drily. ‘The Divine may be there for you, but for myself, I cannot
                    for the life of me find God in a stagnant horse-pond, nor in a ploughed field
                    spread over with dead fish. And I confess I see Him no more in hawks and tigers,
                    bogs and weeds, than in this bundle of passions, weaknesses, appetites,
                    treacheries, and impulses we call man. But your Pantheism, to be logical, must
                    include man as well as beasts and roots and stones and trees.’
                ‘And why not?’ I answered. ‘Man is the base of our ideal God—he is the best we
                    know.’
                ‘In which case all I can say is—bad is the best, and very bad too; and your
                    divine tabernacle is wonderfully in need of repair, and a very ramshackle
                    concern all through.’
                ‘That which He has made must have something of Himself in it,’ I said.
                        ‘Nature, and with nature man, are both the
                    expressions of the thought and power of God.’
                ‘You believe in direct creation?’ she returned, as if with surprise. ‘You believe
                    that we are consciously and intentionally made as we are, by a Supreme Being who
                    could have done so much better for us if He would? How odd! If I were to think
                    so, I should go as mad as if I were locked up in a torture-chamber where I had
                    to witness the agonies of others, and be twinged myself as a gentle reminder of
                    consanguinity. To believe that this world, with all its pain and misery, its
                    disease and death and ignorance, is the deliberate work of an Omnipotent and
                    Omniscient Deity, seems to me the most blasphemous assumption—if there be such a
                    thing as blasphemy—the most illogical and self-contradictory idea, as well as
                    the most derogatory to the character of the God proclaimed, that the mind can
                    conceive. No, my dear, I make no God responsible for all this misery! It was not by the direct act of a
                    Supreme Power that Pompeii and Herculaneum were destroyed—that we are born by
                    torture and have to die in agony—that we have to protect ourselves from the
                    elements which else would annihilate us—that we have to labour if we would live,
                    and to suffer if we would enjoy—no Conscious Power is responsible for all this.
                    It is the Law—that thing of which we know neither the origin nor the issue—Law
                    without consciousness, without favour, without discretion, without
                    individualism—Law as cold and stony as one of the old Egyptian gods, sitting
                    through all eternity, their hands resting on their knees, deaf to the cries of
                    men, dead to their prayers, and unmoved by all that passes before them, whether
                    it be the blood of slain men or the laughter of little children.’
                All this kind of talk fascinated while it half-terrified me. It had on me the
                        same effect as conjuring up the devil and
                    the practice of the Black Art must have had on a mediæval student. It was
                    peeping into forbidden places and listening to forbidden sounds. The boldness of
                    Mrs. Hulme's negations; the cynicism of her morality; her contempt for all those
                    things which have ever been most sacred to man, and which were then my holiest
                    treasures of faith; her keen wit; her kind heart and the barrenness of her
                    spiritual nature—all made her a study of singular interest to me. But my
                    interest was mixed with dread and my affection for her was dashed with
                    reprobation. I was in a new world when with her; and I had not yet polarized
                    myself. My enthusiasm was pitied as the fever of youth; my principles of deepest
                    root were shown to be unworkable in actual life; the ‘counsels of perfection’ to
                    which I yet clung were set aside as moral fairy tales, without substantiality or
                    reasonableness; my faith in the essential
                    qualities of vice and virtue was treated as a superstition on all fours with
                    Aubrey's astral spirit, the properties of the herb moly, and the gift of
                    invisibility lying in fern-seed. When I spoke of the absolute, I was met by the
                    relative, the evanescent, the apparent; and I was becoming familiarized with the
                    doctrines which made all life mere vapoury phenomena, where nothing is new,
                    nothing is true, and nothing signifies.
                As I have said, Mrs. Hulme's contempt for humanity made her latitudinarian all
                    through. She was philosophically tolerant of lying and deceit, of selfishness,
                    treachery, unchastity, and all the rest, because she expected nothing
                    better.
                ‘They have broken the eleventh commandment and been found out,’ she used to say.
                    ‘Everyone does the same, but some manage better than others, and fasten their
                    doors with a closer lock. It is all that question of the lock—you may be sure of
                    that, my dear! Behind the door everyone is
                    pretty much alike. An Archbishop is only a chevalier d'industrie made honest
                    because he has no need to cheat. Take away his lawn sleeves and put him into a
                    jockey's jacket, and in place of a saint you will have a blackleg. It is only a
                    matter of dress and assignment.’
                ‘Do you allow no good in human nature?’ I asked, a little impatiently. ‘What do
                    you leave us?’
                ‘Well, I leave you Nero and Domitian and Caligula and all that lot—Lucrezia
                    Borgia and the Marchioness de Brinvilliers—Gilles de Retz and the whole crew of
                    inquisitors—and a crowd more; all own brothers and sisters, founded on the same
                    ground-plan as your saints and heroes, and all divine tabernacles according to
                    you. What more do you want?’
                ‘Oh, Mrs. Hulme! how can you live without faith in God or love for man?’ I said with real pain. ‘I should die if I were
                    out in the wilderness as you are—if I were so desolate and deserted.’
                A sudden look of tenderness came into her face and moistened her eyes. She leaned
                    forward in her chair and took my hand between both her own.
                ‘What a child you are still, my six-foot-two dreamer!’ she said. ‘When you were a
                    little fellow, did you not suck your thumb before you went to sleep? I am sure
                    you did! You suck your mental thumb still. It served you then for comfort—was as
                    good as a lollipop. So are your beliefs and aspirations, your vague adorations
                    and baseless certainties, now! It is almost a pity to take them from you
                    prematurely. The day came when of your own accord and by the law of growth you
                    left off sucking your thumb and yet went happily to sleep; and the day will come
                    when you will cease to idealize human nature, and yet you will find life tolerable when you have left off believing in
                    its pretty fables.’
                ‘And I am to find no one good, no one true or faithful?—not though I know and
                    love you?’ I asked, masking emotion under playfulness.
                She patted my head.
                ‘What a pretty speech!’ she said. ‘I despise flattery, my dear, but I love it all
                    the same. When I hear beautiful music, I know it is only a cunning combination
                    of sounds made by lifeless material. But it stirs my blood, for all that it
                    comes out of the bowels of a cat and the wood of a tree—nient' altro! So thank
                    you for your nice little bit of humbug, which is pleasant to hear and which I do
                    not in the least believe. So far from thinking me good, you think I am a
                    horrible old woman, given over to the devil and all his works, and destined to
                    be damned to all eternity.’
                ‘I do not,’ I answered. ‘I do not agree with
                    you, but that does not prevent my respecting you.’
                ‘How should you agree with me?’ she said, with her mocking little laugh. ‘I am
                    old, you are young; I know, you believe; I have proved, you hope. We are not on
                    the same platform. It is impossible. But you will come to me in time;—that is,
                    if you are made of stuff that matures and ripens and does not wither green—nor
                    become fossilized before it has fructified.’
                ‘And then I shall despise humanity?’ I said.
                ‘Yes, my dear—despise, pity, aid and not condemn it,’ she answered. ‘It is a poor
                    thing; but it cannot help itself, any more than a snake can help its poison-fang
                    or a jelly-fish its want of backbone. It is so, and no one is to blame. But,
                    being this poor thing, do not talk to me of the divinity lying within it, nor of
                    the omnipotence, the love which energizes this grossly cruel and imperfect
                    world.’
                
                This was the kind of thing which Mrs. Hulme perpetually said to me; and I wonder
                    now how my belief in goodness and the right survived her efforts to kill it. It
                    did. I could not be brought to that terrible contempt which seemed to her the
                    key of all wisdom—the awful mirror bought of truth by knowledge. I must love. I
                    must be able to feel reverence, and to trust; and to live among the dry bones as
                    she did would have ruined me for ever. If I had doubted those whom I loved, I
                    should have doubted of God. And this was to me that mysterious sin against the
                    Holy Ghost on which my young imagination had been so often exercised.
                No; Mrs. Hulme was wrong. There was more than blind Law under which we
                    lived—there was Divine Providence ever leading us, like little children, step by
                    step, higher and higher. There was more than the irresponsible animal in
                    man—there was his soul, his conscience, his
                    love, his aspiration, his truth. And there were always some who were absolutely
                    good—had I not loved Adeline Dalrymple?—and right and wrong were facts, not
                    fancies.
                So I fortified myself against my old friend's cynicism, and for her dead negation
                    substituted my own fervent affirmation, and made sure that I had the Truth in
                    front of me. And I was still actuated by principle, and did my best to put into
                    practice those counsels of perfection which had always stirred my soul and, so
                    to speak, fired my spiritual ambition. But I made a terrible fiasco of my
                    worldly matters in the process, and put back the dial-hand of fortune for as
                    many degrees as it had gone forward.
                For instance: I had written a novel, for which Mr. Colbourn, one of the great
                    publishers of novels of that time, had agreed beforehand to give me three
                    hundred pounds. Now, three hundred pounds, in
                    those days of hard work and narrow gains, was a small fortune; and I had
                    reckoned on it with the satisfaction of certainty. But my book was an
                    unconventional and daring sort of thing; and when it was finished I began to
                    think it was not quite the kind Mr. Colbourn had anticipated when he bargained
                    for it. He came to me on the day when I told him it was completed; and he had
                    the three hundred pounds in his pocket-book. When he took out the notes I laid
                    my hand on his.
                ‘No,’ I said; ‘let it stand over. Take the manuscript; and if you do not like it,
                    I let you off the bargain.’
                He did not like it, and I lost my money. But I kept my sense of honour, of truth,
                    and fair-dealing; and was not that better?
                When I told Mrs. Hulme what I had done, I really thought the end of our
                    friendship had come. She raved at me for my folly, my absurd pride, my
                        presumption even, in pretending to arrange
                    Mr. Colbourn's business for him. What right had I to teach him the lesson of not
                    buying a thing he had not seen? Who was I, to think myself wiser than a sharp
                    man of business who knew what he was about a great deal better than I could tell
                    him? So she stormed. But at last she ended by taking my face between her large,
                    soft, flaccid hands, and kissing me on the forehead.
                ‘You are a fool,’ she said in her queer cynical way; ‘about the biggest out of
                    Bedlam. But,’ she added more softly; ‘you are a good fool—which is
                    something.’
            
            
            
                CHAPTER III.
                NATURALLY all the Liberals, and even the Freethinkers who cared nothing
                    about the intrinsic merits of the question, were on the side of Mr. Gorham in
                    the controversy about baptismal regeneration which took place between him and
                    ‘Henry of Exeter,’ that diluted representative of Hildebrand, or, more properly,
                    Thomas à Becket modernized. It was easy to foresee the tyranny of the High
                    Church, should it ever have supreme power. For though Tractarianism was only in
                    the protesting and struggling stage, a condition of things for which Liberals have a constitutional sympathy, yet we knew
                    then, as we know now, that it was the effort of tyranny, happily restrained, to
                    place its yoke on the necks of men. It was like Sinbad's Old Man of the Sea,
                    apparently helpless and ill-used and asking leave only to live like the rest.
                    Once seat him on your shoulders and you will never know intellectual freedom
                    again!
                Men suffer individually from the moral grip of the Low Church ministers; yet, as
                    this grip is more congregational than organic, it can be shaken off when
                    desired, and is by no means so dangerous as that other. The ‘sin of
                    Erastianism,’ which the Tractarians denounce, is the only safeguard of national
                    religious freedom; and while the Church remains national, and holds in its hands
                    any kind of directing power over the lives of citizens, it ought to be
                    essentially, not nominally, Catholic; that is, it ought to include in its bounding line as much diversity as may
                    be without self-stultification.
                For all that, and in spite of the part which I, and others like me, took in this
                    Gorham affair, the Evangelical section was, and always has been, profoundly
                    abhorrent to me. The constricted human sympathies of these people—their
                    hostility to science—their superstitious adhesion to every word of the Bible,
                    whatever geology or philology may say—their arrogant assumption of absolute
                    rightness—their greater reverence for certain mystical and unprovable doctrines
                    than for active and practical virtues—their unnatural asceticism, which has none
                    of the manliness of stoicism in it, but is founded on the crushing idea of Sin,
                    that pallid spectre everywhere, even in our affections—in a word, their
                    sanctimoniousness, gave me in my early youth a repulsion for the whole school,
                    which I retain to my cooler and soberer old
                    age. I have had a wide personal experience of this section, and when I speak of
                    them it is according to knowledge;—which is the only excuse I can offer for a
                    prejudice I confess to be both illiberal and unphilosophical.
                Amongst the full-flavoured Bohemianism and scoffing Voltaireanism of Mrs.
                    Hulme—the practical honesty and unreserve of my uncovenanted friends, the
                    Free-lovers—the sharp and brilliant, but not always modest, wit of Mr. King's
                    lawyer guests, to whom nothing was sacred save success—was wedged in the
                    Evangelical straitness of the Honourable and Reverend Mr. Caird, the Low Church
                    incumbent of the parish in which my boarding-house was situated. My father had
                    stipulated that I should attend the church and make the personal acquaintance of
                    the clergyman, whoever he might be, within whose jurisdiction I might be placed;
                    and, of course, I kept my word.
                
                This intercourse was my penance for the pleasure of the rest.
                The Honourable and Reverend Mr. Caird was one of those ecclesiastics whose very
                    personality sends one's blood the wrong way. Manner, look, voice, enunciation,
                    gestures, all are studied and artificial with these men, who talk of glory and
                    knowledge, saving grace, the blood of Jesus, and the new birth, as others talk
                    of the crops and the weather. Everything is subdued, nothing is spontaneous
                    about them; and there is the ever-present consciousness of superior holiness,
                    like a visible varnish, over them. The thin lips, tightly closed, seem unable or
                    unwilling to take a deep draught of vitalizing air. Who knows what sobbing
                    breaths of sinful passion may not have profaned it?—what rude impulses of
                    vigorous life may not have stirred it?—unlawful for those whose castigated
                    pulses may never throb beyond the chill regulation beat. The smooth clean-shaven face is as impassive as
                    if cut out of wood. No generous flash of quick emotion brightens the cheek nor
                    softens the eye, dilates the pinched nostril nor dimples the sterile mouth. You
                    detect the clerical impress on that impassive face the first instant that you
                    see it; for the episcopal laying-on of hands has left the thumb-mark for ever.
                    The eyelids are generally dropped over eyes which may not see too much of
                    Nature, that robust child of goat-footed Pan, with its bold glances roving free
                    and wild over all the mysteries of life, and its ruddy mouth, red with the juice
                    of fruits, laughing up to the sun, its creator and preserver and destroyer in
                    one. Nature, which is unredeemed—humanity, which is unregenerate—are both among
                    the things inhibited to the ‘saved’ sons of the Gospel. To them Love itself is a
                    snare and a sin; and the very passion of a mother for her child is deprecated as an idolatrous preference for
                    the creature over the Creator.
                As for Nature, the word itself is redolent to them of impiety and indelicacy. I
                    remember how once, when my sister Ellen, protesting against the arid teachings
                    of one who it was then thought would be her mother-in-law, said warmly: ‘It is
                    not natural,’ received for her rebuke: ‘Natural, Ellen! how can you, a Christian
                    young woman, use a word at once so indelicate and profane?’
                Still, the men themselves are often so good, so conscientious, that it is
                    impossible not to respect them as individuals, how much soever one may shrink
                    from them as officials. And this was the case with me in my intercourse with Mr.
                    Caird.
                He lived only to do his duty, as he conceived it, and to spread what he thought
                    to be right principles. But what principles they were! He sanctioned no kind
                        of social pleasure and found sin in the
                    most innocent amusements. Cards were always the ‘devil's books’ with him; a
                    theatre was the equivalent of hell, and those who went there were predestined to
                    eternal damnation as surely as those who sunk in mid ocean were doomed to be
                    drowned; and dancing was also synonymous with damnation. He once found himself
                    at a lady's house where a small impromptu dance among the boys and girls was got
                    up. They were only children, none counting over ten years of age.
                Mr. Caird routed up his wife, took her on his arm, and went straight to the
                    hostess.
                ‘Madam,’ he said severely; ‘I cannot stay here to see these young souls led down
                    to hell. Either this sinful pastime must be stopped, or I and my wife must
                    leave.’
                As the lady refused to stop that in which she saw no kind of harm, and thus
                        make a whole roomful of innocent little
                    people unhappy, as their sacrifice to this Moloch of superstition, Mr. Caird
                    acted on his threat, and buried himself and his wife in the cloak-room until his
                    carriage came to take them away.
                Another time his wife went out with a cameo brooch in front of her dress. Seeing
                    it for the first time as she came from the cloak-room, unshawled and
                    bare-necked, he peremptorily bade her take it off, saying, with more prudent
                    prevision than substantial delicacy:
                ‘Take that off. It attracts the eyes of men to a part of your person it is not
                    desirable they should look at too closely.’
                He was a man as incapable of understanding or discussing a religious doubt as was
                    my father himself. He might, perhaps, have scraped up as much moss of tolerance
                    from among the boulders of his convictions as would have enabled him to
                        discuss variorum readings of certain texts;
                    but any doubt cast on the bases of his faith—that was beyond his limit; and to
                    have entered on it at all would have been to him like holding a candle to the
                    devil, where the torchbearer would have been as damnable as the demon he
                    served.
                To him and all his school the devil is a personage as real as that next-door
                    neighbour the Socinian, and hell is as actual a place as Paris or Rome. Logical
                    and literal, they admit no refining away of words nor enlargement of sense by
                    the doctrine of development. The worm that dieth not and the fire that is not
                    quenched are material and existing things. They cannot accept the softening
                    exegesis of ‘tropes,’ ‘parables,’ ‘speaking to the people in the language which
                    alone they could understand,’ ‘doctrine according to the learning of the times,
                    and not permanent and fixed in the face of better knowledge,’ with which the Broad Church smooth out difficulties.
                    The words are final and of cast-iron; consequently the material personality of
                    Satan and the topical reality of hell are matters of absolute certainty which
                    nothing can undo.
                I was once present at a very painful scene in the house of one of these fervent
                    believers in the personality of the devil and the physical pains of hell—a scene
                    which made a great impression on me and drove me farther and farther from the
                    line of orthodoxy. The eldest son of the family had lately died. He had been a
                    wild outward kind of young fellow, who had enjoyed his youth too freely and
                    flung his cap too far over the windmill. He had been thoughtless, extravagant,
                    pleasure-loving; and he had done a great many things which it would have been
                    better to have left undone. But he had harmed no one but himself; and his worst
                    offences had been due to 
                        tempera-
                        temperament
                     ment rather than to any obliquity of
                    moral nature.
                One day, about a month after his death, I was dining with the family, when the
                    father suddenly laid down his knife and fork, covered his face in his hands and
                    burst into loud weeping. We saw the tears run down below the palms of his hands
                    and ooze through his fingers. His eldest daughter got up, went over to him, and
                    put her arms round his neck.
                ‘Dearest papa,’ she said; ‘what is it? what troubles you?’
                ‘Ah, my dear!’ he sobbed; ‘I was thinking of poor Jim in hell!’
                The strange incongruity of the thought, so ghastly and so grim, with the prosaic
                    circumstances of the meal, made a contrast that I have never forgotten.
                Poor man! How often I have thought of the needless agony of that moment; and how
                    often I have wished that I could help in
                    breaking once and for ever all these cruel chains which bind men to misery and
                    falsehood. We deprecate the sacrifices made of life and manhood to Juggernaut;
                    are ours of spiritual peace and courage made to Satan any more respectable? By
                    my own early torments I can gauge the misery felt by others; by my own early
                    terrors I know the strength of that mysterious fear which possesses the souls of
                    those who believe and tremble.
                I was brought into even closer personal relations with this section of the
                    Church. My sister Ellen was engaged to be married to the son of one of these Low
                    Church clergymen, and I was naturally a reprobate and accursed to the family she
                    was about to enter. Mr. Smith, her father-in-law elect, made it a condition of
                    the marriage that she should give me up as completely as if I were dead—that she
                    should never see me, hold no intercourse with me, and that she should abandon me entirely, as the plain and manifest
                    duty of a Christian woman.
                We were a strange family and full of apparent contradictions. We might quarrel
                    among ourselves at home, as we did; I might be reprobated and considered
                    abominable by the rest, as I was; but we were too strong-willed a race to submit
                    for submission's sake to king or kaiser. And Ellen, who had never specially
                    loved me and had always trounced me when she could, refused to accept any
                    husband in the world on these terms.
                ‘Christopher may be quite wrong in all he thinks—and he is quite wrong; that I
                    admit,’ she said; ‘but he is my brother, and I will not give him up. And if
                    Morley’—her lover—‘has not courage to stand by me, he need not.’
                He had not the courage; and the marriage was broken off, to my intense trouble.
                    But Ellen did better afterwards; so that burden
                    of unavailing regret was rolled off my shoulders. And indeed I doubt if she
                    would ever have been happy in a family where it was considered indelicate and
                    unchristian to say that a thing was unnatural, and where the theatre was
                    considered as one of the Halls of Eblis.
                In later years another sister discarded me of her own free-will for my
                    unsoundness. This was when she had become a believer in the theory of the Ten
                    Tribes—in universal Jesuitism, so that a Freethinker, a Socinian, an
                    Evangelical, a Tractarian, have each and all been supposed by her to be so many
                    emissaries of the Jesuits—in secret poisonings as matters of weekly
                    occurrence—in the Apocalypse, and the Seal now being opened (witness thereof the
                    potato disease and the phylloxera)—and in ghosts, apparitions, presentiments and
                    warnings as among the ordinary phenomena of this solid earth.
                
                Not all these Evangelicals are sincere; or, if they are sincere in their
                    convictions, they have odd irregularities in practice. A certain great
                    provincial light in these days was the leader of the Evangelical school where he
                    was stationed. An eloquent preacher, he longed to get to London, saying: ‘I am
                    an oak in a flower-pot here’—though his place was in the second city of the
                    kingdom, and his fame and following were as great as if he had had St. Paul's
                    for his pulpit. Among his hearers and friends was a very charming young married
                    woman, with that kind of mental activity which made her go into religion as she
                    went into society; study the esoteric meaning of texts as she studied Balzac and
                    Georges Sand; and long for peculiar enlightenment as she longed to be received
                    at court and to work her way into the houses of the great. It was one part of
                    human life to her; and she had a feverish desire to know all the parts, and to possess herself of everything by which
                    her mind would be filled with new ideas, as a balloon is filled with gas.
                Mr. — was a handsome, well-favoured man, also desirous of new ideas, and not
                    disinclined to lead blind white souls into the light, nor to set dainty tripping
                    feet on to holy places. He and his fair friend often read the Bible together. He
                    expounded and she took in. How it really ended I do not know, for she did not
                    tell me more than this little anecdote. When they were sitting together in the
                    summer-house, with the Bible open before them, he suddenly re-enacted the drama
                    of Francesca and Paolo—they were studying the Song of Solomon—broke out into a
                    declaration of love, and, when she repulsed him, reminding him that both were
                    married, flung piety to the winds and said:
                ‘Let us then go down to hell together.’
                This is all I know; and I know this only by the
                    voluntary confession of the lady herself. The Oak in the Flower-pot I never saw;
                    and I never told the story against him. But I used to laugh to myself when I
                    heard his name, and think how odd it was that I knew so much of him, while to
                    him I was not even the shadow of a name.
                Hearing so much of sin from Mr. Caird, and seeing how he conjured up this pale
                    and ghastly spectre everywhere, I set myself to think out the matter and to
                    clear the question, so far as I could, from all conventionalized
                    interpretations, going down, more meo, to the foundations of things. And going
                    down to the foundations here, I made it clear to myself that elemental sin does
                    not exist, and that the whole thing is a question of proportion. Cut away the
                    base of anything—even of murder—and you cut away a necessary and integral part
                    of human nature. Exaggerate this absolutely necessary base, and you come to
                        disproportion and selfishness—that is, to
                    sin; as in the instinct of self-preservation, of which anger or revenge,
                    culminating in murder, is the excess, the exaggeration, the disproportion, the
                    crime. Also I made it clear that certain virtues rest on a physical basis; as,
                    the value of chastity in woman for the sake of the purity of the race—the value
                    of temperance in man for the sake of the health of the offspring.
                When I had reasoned this out for myself, I can scarcely describe the relief I
                    felt; how much more manageable the whole question of human life became; how much
                    wider the horizon, how much clearer the light. Instead of that maddening mystery
                    of the origin of evil, and why God, who is Omnipotent, causes His creatures to
                    be born in sin and conceived in iniquity, I came to the simple equation of
                    comparative excess and conditional ignorance, of which the results must be dealt
                    with as severely as may be, but whereof the
                    cause is remediable, and will one day be removed. It seemed to lift me out of
                    the depths, and to invest humanity with a hope and power forbidden while I
                    believed in the inborn wickedness of the human heart. I saw law, crime, and
                    punishment as the logical conditions of human society—society conscious of its
                    needs, and acting out the law of self-preservation by repressing excess and
                    punishing inordinate selfishness. But this was a very different thing from the
                    doctrine of elemental and intrinsic sin which the Low Church holds so strongly.
                    And, as I say, the freedom, the light, the hope, the cheerfulness which resulted
                    from my conclusions made a new moral world for me. So far I owe gratitude to Mr.
                    Caird and his followers. That powerful stimulant of opposition, which has ever
                    worked so strongly in me, led me to the examination of the whole matter; and I
                    burst into freedom through the very
                    contemplation of bondage.
                It was about this time that I met Robert Owen, then an old man, but still full of
                    pith and vigour. His belief and enthusiasm were in no wise damped by
                    disappointment, and he still held on to his idea of philosophical communism as
                    the ultimate outcome and regeneration of society. I became his ardent convert,
                    and had there been a ‘phalanstery’ founded on philosophical principles I would
                    have gone into it. In some form or other I felt sure that these principles of
                    co-operation would ultimately prevail; and we see their partial working at the
                    present day, under a new name and an altered shape. But I should have liked to
                    have seen the question fairly tried, and to have proved for myself what was the
                    moral hitch to prevent smooth running. We can live peaceably together in hotels
                    and pensions—why not in a community, where we
                    should simply enlarge the principle, and still further restrict that bane of
                    life and progress—selfishness?
                Together with Owen I knew Dr. Travis, the delightful man they used to call his
                    Paraclete. He was one of the loveliest flowers of humanity; but he wanted
                    magnetic force and vitalizing energy. Handsome, well-read, singularly well-bred
                    and as pure as a good woman, he was content with holding sacred the faith that
                    had been bequeathed to him, but he made no valid efforts to spread it. He might
                    not have succeeded if he had; but I have always thought that if a more supple
                    intellect, a more worldly-wise and experimental man, had taken the management of
                    Robert Owen's ideas, we might have had co-operation sooner in time and more
                    radical in organization than we have. It seems to me very certain that the thing
                    has to come sooner or later, and that mutual support will some day be the rule
                        of society, rather than what we have now,
                    universal competition.
                The strange variety of thought and view found among the people I most frequented
                    made a moral and intellectual dissolving view or kaleidoscope which sometimes a
                    little bewildered me; and I often asked with Pilate: ‘What is Truth?’—that
                    question which no man answered then, and no man has answered since; and yet we
                    all believe that we ourselves have this Truth. And I in those days thought that
                    I had it in faithful belief in God's Providence and power; in the ultimate good
                    of all things; in the perfectibility of man and the rapid advance of society
                    towards that perfection; in the sure progress of the soul after death; in the
                    elimination of the devil from the scheme of the spiritual world; in the sweeping
                    away of hell; in the divine life within us; in the universal Fatherhood of
                    God—God above and beyond us all—God revealed in
                    the mind of man—God untrammelled by church or creed or formula, neither
                    Christian nor Jewish, neither Mohammedan nor Brahmin, but everywhere, in all
                    beliefs, in all heroic deeds, in all faithful effort, wherever a prayer went up
                    to heaven or an act of sacrifice was done on earth. For though I had got rid of
                    sin in the abstract, I had not relaxed my hold on good; and of all arguments,
                    that which maintains there can be no good without evil was the one I most
                    passionately repudiated. Light was light to me, and I could not admit that it
                    needed darkness to enable it to exist. And in like manner God was God, and
                    needed no devil as His shadow.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER IV.
                ALTHEA CARTWRIGHT lived with her aunt, Mrs. Pratten, in a pretty house
                    in South Bank, where, for all that South Bank was then looked on as so much in
                    the country as to be almost beyond the reach of Londoners, they saw a great deal
                    of society and attracted many well-conditioned people. Ladies certainly grumbled
                    at the distance, and made that and the possibility of foot-pads on dark nights
                    their excuse for keeping away; but men found the weekly receptions delightful
                    and the more intimate association full of charm; and Mnemosyne Lodge, as the place was somewhat strangely called, was
                    never without its attractions and its visitors. It was a kind of social honeypot
                    round which the flies continually buzzed, and no man who once went there ever
                    failed to put in a second appearance.
                There was a mystery in Mrs. Pratten's life which no one understood. When a young
                    woman she had married a man apparently her suitable match in every way; and she
                    had kept with him four days. On the fifth she went back to her mother's house,
                    and never left it again. What happened to divide these wedded lovers no one
                    knew. It was one of those well-kept secrets on which all may make theories at
                    pleasure; for no one can either disprove or verify, and one hypothesis is as
                    good as another. Neither the husband, who was still alive and who enjoyed life
                    as a bachelor in Paris, nor Mrs. Pratten herself, told more than the mere fact
                    betrayed:—They had married a life time ago,
                    and they had parted after four days, never to meet again.
                Since that time the one ever spoke with the bitterest contempt of women—the other
                    with the profoundest horror of men. To Mrs. Pratten all men were marked with the
                    Sign of the Beast; and she was accustomed to say that nothing tried her faith in
                    God so severely as the creation of such monsters as men. To Mr. Pratten, whom I
                    afterwards knew in Paris, women were mere jointed dolls, and there was no hope
                    for the human race, doomed to the degradation of being mothered by such
                    unredeemed and absolute fools.
                Being so uncompromising a man-hater, Mrs. Pratten was, of course, a misogamist.
                    She lectured every girl of her acquaintance on the sin of matrimony, as if this
                    were indeed a crime; and, though she accepted women who were already wives when
                    she knew them, she repudiated those who took to themselves husbands after she had known them as girls. She professed for them
                    a horror only equalled by that which she felt for the men themselves.
                With Althea she was explicit enough. If ever she were to fall away from grace and
                    virtue so much as to marry, she would be cut out of her aunt's will as
                    irrevocably as she would be banished from her aunt's house. If she remained
                    unmarried, as a good and modest woman should, she would come in for all. And as
                    Mrs. Pratten was a wealthy woman, who lived up to about half her income and put
                    out the other half to interest, the bribe was considerable, and so far had
                    proved successful. Althea Cartwright was Althea Cartwright still; and everyone
                    knew that she would not marry, and indeed could not, unless she got hold of a
                    millionnaire.
                When I knew her she was some way past thirty—a tall, fair woman with an almost
                    perfect figure, at once generous and graceful,
                    where the outlines were long and flowing and the filling-in rich and firmly
                    modelled. Her face was not strictly beautiful, and yet she was more attractive
                    than many confessedly beautiful women. She had an abundance of shining flaxen
                    hair, with a shade of red to be sometimes seen in the sunlight, and her skin was
                    of that clear but not unhealthy pallor which generally goes with flaxen hair.
                    What would else have been its exquisite transparency, however, was marred by
                    freckles, which were the standing sorrow of her life. Her eyes were light-hazel,
                    large, finely-shaped and wonderfully brilliant; her nose was short, rather
                    blunt, but beautiful in profile; her lips were curved, flexible and delightfully
                    expressive of her emotions; her hands and arms were simply perfection; and she
                    was singularly soft in manner, speech, voice and texture. Indeed, her main
                    characteristic was softness. Yet she was not weak; still less was she flaccid or without grip. She knew what she
                    wanted, and she took it and held it for so long as it pleased her; and when she
                    no longer cared for it she let it drop, and walked on without it. She had the
                    most consummate ability that way, and was no more to be held against her will
                    than a mermaid in the water—no more to be constrained than the cloud which once
                    looked like Juno. More Ixions than one knew this; and no one had yet found the
                    charm which could compel her to maintain any kind of relation whatsoever when
                    she wished to abandon it. From friends to servants, she held while she would and
                    took the good while she could; and then she slipped aside and discarded without
                    a second thought. No; Althea Cartwright, the softest, sweetest, and apparently
                    the most pliant creature in the world, was certainly not weak nor yet
                    flaccid.
                Her central point was her devotion to her aunt,
                    whose moods she divined with almost intuitive perception, and to whose humours
                    she adapted herself with marvellous plasticity. For among her other qualities
                    she had the temper of an angel, and a power of sympathetic receptivity which
                    made her the favourite confidant of all who had anything to confide. But though
                    she was thus devoted to her aunt, she managed to live her own life with
                    tolerable breadth of margin; and, while Mrs. Pratten never went out in the
                    evening, Althea was never at home, save on the nights when they themselves
                    received. Popular as she was, everyone wanted her. Women seemed to love her as
                    much as men admired her; and when once a house-door was opened to her it was
                    rarely shut again. The oddest part of the whole thing was, she always seemed to
                    have some strange power in those houses where she was intimate. I think she did
                    a good deal for her lady-friends as well as for the men; and I know that she sometimes screened them and
                    sometimes helped them. At all events, she was useful; and she was far too
                    good-natured to refuse a request, whatever it might be. But these concentric
                    circles revolved round and never broke into the standing duty of her life; and
                    her aunt had no cause to feel herself neglected.
                Mrs. Pratten was a kind of palimpsest of all the crazy faiths that float about
                    the world. She had gone through the whole cycle of religious experiences, yet
                    had learned no self-distrust from her repeated failures. Her last state was
                    always her final revelation; and for all that the voice of God had already
                    spoken to her in so many different dialects, she was invariably sure that this
                    last was that in which He had spoken to Moses on Mount Sinai. ‘Guided by the
                    Spirit’—that was her phrase. Were this so, it cannot be denied that she had been
                    guided into many queer corners and landed
                    among many odd heaps of rubbish. She had adopted every mystical creed extant,
                    and was now in the full swing of the most mystical of all:—it was before the
                    days of Theosophy and Occult Buddhism. She was a Swedenborgian, and a
                    ‘spiritist’ of the school known a few years afterwards as that of Alan Kardec.
                    His ideas had been in the air before he consolidated them into a system; and
                    Mrs. Pratten, who caught all floating theories as boys catch moths, had adopted
                    them for herself. She believed in successive incarnations of the spirit, and
                    amused herself by tracing back the pedigree of her friends' souls, and locating
                    each in its special tabernacle.
                Of her own incarnations she was never weary of talking. She was a frail, meagre
                    little woman, with a mousy face, a nervous manner and a temperament as timid as
                    a hare's; but she gave to herself all sorts of heroic and spiritually splendid
                        antecedents, and jumbled up her
                    pre-incarnations into an olla podrida of the oddest kind. She had been Miriam
                    and Judith, Joan of Arc and St. Theresa, Queen Elizabeth of England and Queen
                    Elizabeth of Hungary, Dorcas and Elizabeth Fry, besides others which I have
                    forgotten. She added to her impersonations so often that she herself got
                    somewhat ‘mixed,’ and lost all hold of a dominant idea; and I, among others, was
                    hopelessly muddled.
                Her niece, Althea, had been a whole string of interesting frailties; among whom I
                    remember figured Bathsheba, Aspasia, Fair Rosamond and Mademoiselle de la
                    Vallière. Her penultimate incarnation had been Marie Antoinette, as a sign of
                    progressive improvement. But Mrs. Pratten spoke with pride of the moral
                    superiority of her present condition, and the cleansing fires through which her
                    soul had manifestly passed. This avatar was better than all the others. Even Marie Antoinette was married:—Althea,
                    thank heaven! was husband-less, and one of those divinely marked on the
                    forehead.
                Me she called Nero. Certainly, in the daguerreotype taken of me, I had a
                    curiously Roman look, not visible, I fancy, in my real face. But I did not feel
                    conscious of my identity with the imperial madman who, she said, had been my
                    former self. When I objected on the ground of non-recognition, she became more
                    than ever positive that she was right, and assured me that this was the best
                    proof I could give, both of my identity and my spiritual advance. I was ashamed
                    of my former self and therefore repudiated the connection. I had forgotten my
                    then cherished sins, just as we forget the angry passions of our childhood. So
                    far I too was cleansed, and by just so much was nearer to ultimate regeneration.
                    Perhaps this was my last incarnation, as it was her own and Althea's. She was certain of these; and she
                    hoped, but was not quite so sure, of mine. She thought I had in me still too
                    much of the original red earth of which the first man was made. And while we had
                    any of that left in us, we were too heavily weighted to soar upward to the New
                    Jerusalem.
                Another of her amusements was to find out the correspondences of her friends in
                    the animal world, and to determine whether they were the further evolution of
                    that energy, the enlargement of that idea, which had initially expressed itself
                    in beasts of prey or beasts of burden; in the animals which are the sustaining
                    sacrifice or in those which are the companions and servants of man; in singing
                    birds which delight him; in insects which torment him; in reptiles which destroy
                    him. She subdivided even these divisions, as when she gravely pondered on the
                    question whether I was a setter or a retriever. She finally settled it by a spiritual ukase:—I was a retriever. For herself,
                    she was the solitary unpaired female eagle—the third of the nest; and Althea was
                    a butterfly—that which had crawled having now learned to fly.
                Also, it cost her many hours of anxious thought to determine to which organ of
                    the Great Man, which she and her co-religionists say makes the shape and
                    conditions of Heaven, we should all be assigned when we had done with our
                    re-incarnations, and had finally shaken off the last grains of that red earth
                    which was the cause of our bondage and the chain of our darkness. She placed
                    herself in the eye, ‘seeing’ being her faculty. Althea was in the great
                    sympathetic nerve; but she moved my locality from organ to organ as she shifted
                    her ideas of my character—and when I last heard of myself I was in the nerves of
                    the tongue, as the discriminator of spiritual food.
                
                Odd as she was in all this, Mrs. Pratten was not substantially insane. She was on
                    the borders, I admit; as must needs be when a woman with an active brain of
                    small size, and more imagination than critical faculty, has allowed her
                    reasoning powers to become practically abortive, while she has cultivated
                    indiscriminate belief as the alpha and omega of spiritual insight, and passes
                    her whole time in hunting out analogies. This search for analogy is neither more
                    nor less than so much spiritual patch-work—piecing together forms and colours
                    which harmonize and make a pretty pattern. For even religions follow Mrs.
                    Pratten's own law of analogy; and some are simply mental amusements, as was
                    hers.
                Queer as she was, yet, being withal rich, hospitable, of good family—and the aunt
                    of Althea—people flocked to her dinners and suppers; assisted at her séances and
                    expositions; and laughed at her afterwards as
                    their compensation for time wasted. It was as much as their good-breeding could
                    compass not to laugh at her to her face when she told them of the spirits who
                    had visited her and the revelations which had been made to her. For really, to
                    hear what Napoleon had to say about the celestial bell-shaped tent in which he
                    lived—in the palm of the right hand—and how Marlborough and Gustavus Adolphus
                    and the Black Prince, and all other illustrious warriors, were also living in
                    bell-tents within a stone's-throw of each other, was rather strong meat to come
                    between the roast and boiled! People who walk habitually in spirit-land do
                    undoubtedly scatter a few of their wits by the way; and poor Mrs. Pratten had
                    scattered some of hers, like the rest.
                Her favourite scientific craze at this time—for she prided herself on her science
                    equally with her religion—was the Odic Force and mesmeric clairvoyance. She had been one of the first in society to follow
                    after Reichenbach and to believe in the Okeys. Now she had elaborated a medium
                    for herself. This was her maid—a certain sharp-witted little Welshwoman, called
                    Sarah Jones in the parish register. In Mrs. Pratten's blue book she was Ruth.
                    The extraordinary ‘sensitiveness’ which this young person possessed—the way in
                    which she exemplified and even went beyond all Reichenbach's experiments, and
                    the certitude with which she discovered magnets in the dark, owing to the light
                    which played around them and streamed in purple filaments from the ends—were
                    matters of constant wonder to the world which witnessed. The sceptical did not
                    know how it was done; the credulous were all agape at the marvel.
                I noticed that Althea avoided discussion on the topics which made her aunt's
                        whole happiness and filled her mental
                    world from centre to circumference. She believed in them, of course. She
                    accepted her former doubtful incarnations and her present progressive
                    improvement with her customary serene grace; was quite sure of her eventual
                    lodgment in the great sympathetic nerve; had not a doubt that Sarah Jones, the
                    black-eyed, sharp-witted girl from Wales, was once the sweet and patient Ruth;
                    was convinced of her ability to see a magnet when hidden in a cupboard, and of
                    the purple filaments which streamed like flames from either end when the
                    armature was removed; convinced also of her obedience to orders transmitted by
                    thought from Dover to London; of her knowledge of the word written on a piece of
                    paper and placed inside a hazel-nut or sealed up in an envelope; of her being
                    able to travel to the exact spot where Sir John Franklin and his men were lying
                    stark beneath the snow; of her interpretation
                    of the mystery of the Foley Place murder; of all the things which ‘sensitives’
                    do and know. All the same, out of Mrs. Pratten's presence Althea never talked on
                    these matters. When pressed, she used to refer her interlocuter to her aunt, who
                    understood these things so much better than she herself did! She was only in the
                    place of an ignorant believer. How indeed, could she be a disbeliever, when such
                    marvels were daily enacted before her eyes? But she was neither an expositor nor
                    a teacher. She left that to her aunt; and she did not care to talk about the
                    thing at all. It was beyond her; and she felt lost and bewildered.
                If she did not actively support, she never showed the faintest doubt as to the
                    genuineness of the phenomena; and to the last no one knew what she believed and
                    what she discredited. For if Mrs. Pratten had dropped a few of her wits by the
                    way, Althea had kept all hers intact. And, said the sceptical and squareheaded: ‘How could she possibly believe
                    such rubbish?’
                From the first both aunt and niece showed me much kindness. Mrs. Pratten looked
                    on me as a future certain convert. She recognised my love of truth; and, as she
                    knew that she had the ‘true truth,’ she said she was as sure, as of to-morrow's
                    sunshine, that I would come to the light wherein she stood. It was only a
                    question of time and teaching. She knew that I was still too full of red earth;
                    but sometimes the work of winnowing went on at rapid speed, and I might be one
                    who, when the sifting once began, would get rid of all that clogged the
                    spiritual machinery in less time than one could count. Also, as a literary man,
                    I would be a valuable convert. I never blinded myself to the extrinsic
                    importance given me by my profession; and I understood from the first that the
                    hand of the pressman was of more account than the still further purification of the spirit of Nero. This,
                    therefore, was why Mrs. Pratten made so much of me and had me so often to her
                    house; and Althea naturally followed her aunt's lead in this as in other
                    things.
                With Althea was another reason to lend additional force to these—I filled a gap.
                    She was one of those women who have always on hand a ‘brother’ or ‘son’ or
                    ‘uncle,’ according to relative age, with whom they go about—to the opera, the
                    theatre, sometimes down to Richmond, to Greenwich, on the Thames; whom they take
                    into society and introduce to their friends; and whom the world agrees to accept
                    as adopted relations according to nomenclature. I was presented to her by Mr.
                    King, who in his day had been her uncle; and I was presented at the time when
                    she was looking out for a new kinsman. She had just lost her ‘favourite boy’—a
                    young barrister who had gone out to India; and
                    she was therefore, as she lamented, sonless. And as she was now growing an old
                    woman, she said with her seductive smile and a peculiar softness veiling the
                    glitter of her greenish-hazel eyes, she preferred sons to all other relations.
                    She was so fond of boys! They were such dear fellows with their funny fresh
                    ways; and men were such dreadful creatures! Hence she adopted me, in the place
                    of Ronald Ray removed; and I was quite willing that she should.
                She was of immense use to me in every way. She took me with her into society, and
                    introduced me freely to all the best people she knew. And she knew a socially
                    higher and more fashionable set than even that to which I had been taken by my
                    pretty patroness with the childish shoulders, or than I found staring at
                    luminous hands in the house of the friend of Mazzini and the believer in the
                    Floating Medium. And of itself this was a
                    valuable experience. She polished my manners as much as the material would
                    allow; taught me the shibboleth; instructed me in those microscopic minutiæ
                    which only the initiated can see, but the absence of which they detect at a
                    glance and resent as a crime; and she wanted to make me a fine gentleman from
                    head to heel, in character as well as in bearing. She found fault with me as I
                    was—chiefly for my want of small change in conversation—for my want of all
                    badinage and lightness—for my vehemence when I talked on those things wherein I
                    was really interested—for the frankness with which I gave my opinion when I was
                    called on to say what I thought and what I believed. And above all, she found
                    fault with my superabundant earnestness.
                ‘Glissez mortels, ne vous appuyez pas,‘ was her motto; and she found my step too
                    firm and my grip too close.
                
                So did her lady friends; some of whom seemed to consider me good fun because of
                    the ‘simplicity,’ the ‘naïveté,’ the ‘innocence’ which they said more than once
                    was ‘delicious.’ But I was not of the stuff which makes fine gentlemen nor
                    courtiers; and through all my gratitude for their kindness, and a certain
                    inevitable dazzle of the senses by reason of the rank, beauty and wealth of
                    those by whom I was caressed, I kept my head steady, and the core of me was
                    never reached. There was something about these grand ladies which intellectually
                    repelled me, for all that personally I was attracted. There was a certain
                    insolence of egotism to which I could never reconcile myself, and which came out
                    in all they did and said and were. The wretched stuff which passed for Art with
                    them; the miserable daubs; the flimsy writing; the idea-less music; the hideous
                    jingle called poetry which they displayed to each other with pride, and for which they received such lavish
                    commendation! What good did their education got by foreign travel do them, if,
                    after having seen the galleries in Florence and Rome, Dresden and Madrid, they
                    could think simpering masks were human likenesses and tea-board abominations
                    landscapes according to nature!
                I got an ugly glimpse into something worse than self-contented incapacity,
                    through the offers made me by more than one great lady who wanted to appear as
                    an authoress without the trouble of writing, and who thought to buy my brains as
                    she would have bought so many yards of silk. Did not the then famous Baroness —
                    come to me with a bundle of woodcuts for which she wanted me to write a story
                    under her name?—and did not Lady — and Mrs.— both ask me to take their
                    manuscripts and put them into readable shape for so much down? And were they not
                    all offended because I refused? And did not
                    Althea herself say that I was twin-brother to that Huron of old time who stands
                    as the ideal of unpractical folly, and that I would never make a man of the
                    world?—never!
                Again, the lives of these grand ladies struck me as so fragmentary, and the scope
                    of their energies as so small and thin! An hour in the morning given to the
                    acquirement of an art which takes for years and years the whole day's
                    working-time of him who would be a proficient; the importance of fashion, of
                    etiquette, of the artificial rules of conduct by which living human nature is
                    checked and stifled; the sense of individual and social superiority to the
                    commonalty, and one's own consequent inferiority evidenced by their very
                    condescension; the consciousness that any man out of their own social sphere is
                    to them a mere toy or tool, to be used for their pleasure and cast aside when
                    they are tired of him; their want of
                    thoroughness and humility, and their unbridled egotism—all this created in me a
                    certain moral and mental revulsion which kept me from the self-abasement of
                    social ambition.
                Young as I was, I was determined that it should not be said of me, as was said of
                    some one else: ‘He is smothered in Countesses.’
                I went among these grand ladies because Althea Cartwright wished it; but I went
                    as an outsider; and I was never anything else. I was too proud of my own order
                    and too essentially democratic to wish to shift my place or to shine by
                    reflected splendour. And all Althea's endeavours to make me understand the value
                    of being seen in certain drawing-rooms failed. From the first days up to now,
                    grand folk were and are nothing to me but curious studies. While they cannot
                    confess to equality, I refuse to kowtow to superiority, such as is given by mere name and fortune. Not inheritance, but
                    acquirement, is, I think, the only true gauge of merit; and the name that is won
                    far surpasses the lustre of that which is bequeathed. And these principles are
                    not those which harmonize best with fine ladies and fine drawing-rooms.
                Notwithstanding this stiffneckedness, Althea's kindness to me did not diminish.
                    On the contrary, it increased, and often became so great as to be a little
                    startling and bewildering. She called me her boy and presented me as her new
                    son. She found out my tastes and ministered to them, even to providing for me a
                    special kind of cake that I liked, and to giving me a certain champagne glass,
                    which I fancy had gone the rounds. She worried newspaper editors, and all those
                    who had the power, for boxes at the theatre and stalls at the opera; and as she
                    had her own little brougham, these evenings cost neither her nor myself anything beyond the flowers and the ices
                    which were then de rigueur. She loaded me with small presents, which embarrassed
                    me to receive and were utterly useless to keep; but she would take no denial;
                    and when I remonstrated, she would tap my face with the tips of her fair, soft
                    fingers, and say, with mock anger:
                ‘Naughty child! may not a mother do as she likes with her son?’
                But in the midst of all this undeserved kindness, as the days came and went a
                    certain strange unrest and impatience seemed, as it were, to line her satin-like
                    softness—a certain core of almost fierceness, almost harshness, to lie within
                    the outer envelope of her habitual tenderness. She was always kind to me in word
                    and deed—caressing, indulgent, ‘spoiling’—and yet she seemed dissatisfied with
                    me, as if she had secret cause of grief against me. And she was so strangely
                    distrustful of me—so exacting of assurances,
                    protestations, promises! She used to make me swear every time I saw her, she
                    holding both my hands in hers, saltier-wise, that I would be faithful to
                    her—quite, quite faithful; that I would never have another friend like her—never
                    take one so near to my heart, nor give to any living woman the affection I had
                    given to her. She used to torment me—not all unpleasantly—with her jealousy,
                    which overflowed at all four corners. In that pale pink room off the first
                    landing, where she made her private nest and received her own especial guests,
                    she made me go through many an agitated half-hour by jealous accusations flung
                    broadcast, and as aimless as so many arrows shot in the air for any chance
                    quarry that might be about, although unseen.
                After I had sworn and vowed and protested with sufficiently strong emphasis to
                    satisfy her, we used to have a grand 
                        recon-
                        reconciliation
                     ciliation—if that could be called
                    reconciliation where the fracture was all on one side; after which things would
                    go smoothly for a day or two, and the sky would be cleared of its phantoms.
                It was after one of these scenes, when she had been angry and I had been contrite
                    for absolutely nothing, that we came to an understanding.
                She took my hand and pressed it against her heart.
                ‘Feel that, you naughty boy!’ she said caressingly; ‘think how dear you must be
                    to me, when you can make my heart beat like that for fear you do not love me as
                    much as you ought!’
                ‘But I do love you!’ I replied. ‘You know that I do! How could I help loving you?
                    No one has ever been so kind to me as you, and no one is so delightful.’
                ‘Is that true?’ she asked.
                ‘Yes, absolutely true,’ I said.
                
                Her breath came with a quick little sob.
                ‘If I could believe you!’ she said softly; and as she spoke the scales fell from
                    my eyes.
                True, she was many years older than I; but what of that? She was beautiful still,
                    and delightful in every way. I was young and could work; and her certain
                    disinheritance when she married me would free me from all suspicion of
                    fortune-hunting. I had my own future in my own hands, and fortune would be the
                    friend to me she always is to the self-reliant. She loved me. There was no
                    vanity in thinking this; it would have been stupidity not to have seen it. And
                    I—I loved her, and had forgotten Adeline Dalrymple:—of whom, by the way, I had
                    never spoken to her.
                I took her in my arms and kissed her upturned face. She closed her eyes, and,
                    dead white as she was, I thought she had fainted, till half a smile and half a
                        tremulous little movement of beseeching
                    came over her colourless lips, as she whispered tenderly:
                ‘I love you!’
                I forget now what I said or did, for I was swept away by the emotion of the
                    moment. I only remember pouring out a whole torrent of love and thanks and
                    violent delight, ending by a picture of our lives when we should be married and
                    safe in our love together.
                And when I said this Althea opened her eyes and looked at me as if I were
                    something strange and comical—something she had seen for the first time, that
                    amused her.
                She raised herself, stood erect and firm before me, and threw back her head.
                ‘You extraordinary child!’ she said, with a light laugh that jarred on me like a
                    false note in music. ‘Marry you, caro mio? No! anything but that!’
                So here was another tumble for that unlucky
                    Icarus, myself, and a new draught of that (poison or elixir?) experience.
                My friendship with Mrs. Pratten and Althea lasted for some time. At my age, in
                    the very morning of life as I was, with all to learn and so little to forget, it
                    was a novelty to me, as delightful as it was new. But though so much in it was
                    pleasant, there was also much that was painful; and many things grated on my
                    sense of truth, and made me sometimes feel as if the whole earth were void and
                    humanity but a simulacrum that held nothing, if indeed it were not a mask to
                    conceal deformity. When I learnt from Althea the truth, which I had resolutely
                    refused to suspect because I was afraid to believe it, that all the
                    manifestations and proofs of sensitiveness, which passed as the unregistered
                    data of a new science and a living truth, were made up between herself and the
                    maid, and when, in answer to my remonstrances,
                    she only said, in her calm, clear, soft, but immovable way:—‘I am doing no
                    wrong. What harm is there in making a poor old woman like my aunt happy? She
                    likes it; why should she not have it? It is better than dram-drinking, and
                    answers the same purpose,’ I felt as bewildered as if I had been suddenly
                    blinded, and I mentally staggered as if I had been struck.
                ‘But truth?’ I said. ‘Does that count for nothing? Do you not think it wrong to
                    aid and abet what you know to be a lie?’
                ‘What a Puritan you are!’ she answered, laughing. ‘As if you did not know as well
                    as I that the whole world is one huge falsehood! You dear innocent old fellow—or
                    you dear old hypocrite. Which is it, Crishna? You will never open your eyes, if
                    you are really an ingénu. If you are not, you are the cleverest young Tartuffe
                    out!’
                ‘Well, I do not think I am a Tartuffe,’ I said,
                    just a shade nettled. ‘And is opening my eyes, as you call it, synonymous with
                    tolerance of falsehood and disbelief in rectitude?’
                She looked at me a little oddly.
                ‘I do not think you need ask that,’ she said drily. ‘Who lives on the house-top?
                    Do you?’
                It was so much the recognised thing, as I have said, for Althea Cartwright to
                    carry about her boys, that no one made any remark when she and I went into
                    society together as if we had the right of close companionship by
                    blood-relationship. A few women certainly looked at me askance, and some men
                    laughed, as it were, behind their hands. But no one said anything, except a
                    certain Colonel Hinds, an old ‘brother’ of Althea's. And he one evening,
                    hitching his arm into mine as we left Mnemosyne Lodge together, said, in a
                    half-bantering, half-warning manner:
                
                ‘So, you have the box-seat now? All right, my boy! Give everything but your
                    heart, do you hear? If that goes into the abyss, you may drag for it in vain.
                    You will never fish it up again!’
                Also, as time went on, Mr. King gave me a long lecture on the folly of too much
                    sincerity. To take the world as we find it and make the best of our portion; to
                    enjoy all that is set before us and never to examine the material; to understand
                    men and women and not to expect more from them than they can give, but to profit
                    by what they have, and to be always gallant and grateful and discreet—and never
                    in earnest:—this was his advice and the lines on which he had constructed his
                    own life. But he was sorry, he said, to see that I was too hot-headed to be
                    wise, and too fatally in earnest to be diplomatic for the one part or on the
                    defensive for the other.
                My relations with Mnemosyne Lodge came rather
                    abruptly to an end. All Althea's favourites had to go by the same road; and it
                    was interesting to watch the difference of their methods.
                Among my friends was a certain James Tremlett—a splendid young fellow, handsome
                    as a Greek god, the heir to a fine estate, with nothing to do but to enjoy life
                    as fortune had ordered it. To do him justice, he did this to perfection. I was
                    one day walking with him in Bond Street, when Althea passed in her pretty little
                    open phaeton, the forerunner of the victoria. She stopped her ponies to speak to
                    me. While she spoke to me, however, she was looking at Tremlett in that fixed,
                    full, yet not bold way, which was one of her charms. With her exceedingly sweet
                    and gracious manners, her low soft voice, her atmosphere of tranquillity and
                    sympathy, that long fixed gaze had in it something indescribably alluring. It
                    was irresistible.
                
                She told me of a water-party for the next week which she wished me to join; and,
                    looking at Tremlett, then back again at me, she said with a smile, and
                    slowly:
                ‘Gentlemen are always valuable at such times. Will you bring your friend?’
                Whereat I presented Tremlett and left him to answer for himself.
                The answer was in the affirmative; and after a little more talk she shook hands
                    with us both—she shook hands to perfection—smiled in her sweet caressing way,
                    and drove off; as she went, turning back her graceful head as if unconsciously,
                    with one last look at Tremlett. He on his side looked after her with a strange
                    smile. Then, turning to me, he said carelessly:
                ‘Your friend is very taking. Tell me about her.’
                I told him all I could; and all that I said was in her honour. But some vague
                    impulse of jealousy made me less enthusiastic
                    than I should have been had I been describing her to a woman, to an old, or to
                    an unpersonable, man.
                When I had finished, Tremlett said carelessly:
                ‘You are fond of her, I see. If I were you, I would not trust her with too much
                    of my heart. I know the kind.’
                ‘You do not know her. She is to be trusted, I assure you,’ I answered
                    eagerly.
                ‘Yes?’ was his indifferent reply. ‘Well, you see, you know her and I do not; you
                    ought to be the best judge.’
                Events proved that I was not so good a judge as he; and that he had read at sight
                    what I had not learned after months of almost daily intercourse.
                This introduction was the beginning of the end; and it is not necessary to trace
                    the process. I was dispossessed in my place as favourite, and James Tremlett was
                    elected in my stead. If I were to go through
                    the whole story, day by day and step by step, until I came to the final moment
                    when I was refused admittance, while—as I stood by the door—Tremlett, lashing up
                    to the house in his private cab, was taken in without delay, I could say nothing
                    more than this:—My fair friend had tired of me; the play was played out; the
                    lights were turned down; the curtain was lowered. And I had to accept my silent
                    dismissal with such patience and philosophy as I could command—such patience and
                    philosophy as others had shown.
                But I was too young, too untrained and passionate, for this. I made scenes and
                    had quarrels, followed by false assurances and false reconciliations—in each of
                    which I felt that I had lost and that she had receded, and had become by so much
                    the more intangible. I knew that I was doing myself no good by all this, and
                    that I was shouldered out and could not
                    reinstate myself. Yet I could not help trying in the beginning—knocking my thick
                    head against a stone wall while running after a fading rainbow.
                Then, when I finally recognised that I was absolutely dispossessed, and that I
                    could not recover what I had lost, I grew savage and sulky, and refused to go to
                    those general At-homes which was all the intercourse that was left me. This
                    naturally made Althea angry, inasmuch as it gave cause for gossip and forced her
                    to find reasons. She resented that I had not let her slip gracefully and
                    quietly, as others had done. Open breaches are such nuisances; and who on earth
                    keeps always to the same set of friends?
                My present savageness, however, was a proof of past sincerity; and so far ought
                    to have pleased, because it flattered her. But the Althea Cartwrights of life do
                        not care for sincerity. They want only the
                    amusement of the hour, without having to pay the piper when the dance is over.
                    And a savage like myself is both a blister and a danger.
                Undoubtedly it would have been more polite, more manly, better breeding
                    altogether, had I accepted my fate with the same stolid indifference which, to
                    all appearances, others had felt. But it must be pleaded in my self-defence that
                    I had really loved her. Perhaps those others had not. She had played with me,
                    but I had been desperately in earnest. And the strange manner in which she
                    slipped away from me gave me no purchase, no point by which to hold her, but
                    melted away like a cloud—the masterly cleverness with which she effaced and
                    obliterated all the past, and stood like one of those German Ellewomen, unmoved
                    by all I suffered, untouched by all I said, was beyond me to bear with equanimity. But my turbulent despair and then
                    my sullen resentment cost me dear, as I found afterwards.
                The friendship between James Tremlett and Althea was of briefer duration than
                    mine had been. It came abruptly to an end when Tremlett married, as he did
                    suddenly, and broke with Mnemosyne Lodge as cleanly as a champagne glass is
                    snapped at the stem. He saw Althea one day; the next, he wrote her a letter of
                    eternal adieu; the week after, he married; and when he returned home with his
                    bride and met his fair friend with her ponies in the Park, he did what no power
                    should have made me do—and what no true man could have done—looked her full in
                    the face and passed on without recognition. I was there, a witness to the whole
                    thing; and for the first and only time of my acquaintance with Althea, I saw her
                    fair clear-skinned face and rounded throat dyed crimson.
                
                Just at this time Althea became acquainted with Mr. Dundas, my irascible editor,
                    who was as susceptible to the power of a pretty woman as he was violent with
                    men; and from the first day of their acquaintance my star in the office
                    declined. What was said I do not know. All that I do know is, I suddenly failed
                    to please. I, who up to this time had been a kind of cherished seedling who
                    might some day develop into the very roof-tree of the office, now could do
                    nothing that was right. Day by day my independent articles were rejected and my
                    routine work was undone; while I myself was rated with the peculiar force and
                    fervency with which our chief knew so well how to flavour his displeasure.
                    Finally, I was abruptly dismissed, and told to go to the devil, but never to
                    show my face in that office again; and for his parting blessing Mr. Dundas
                    hurled a wild world of invectives against me, amongst which I distinguished ‘a
                    presumptuous and ungrateful young brute, who
                    does not know how to treat a lady when he sees her, and who thinks, because she
                    has patronized and been kind to him, that he can ride roughshod over every
                    decency of society!’
                So here I was adrift on the great sea of life, with a dragging anchor and no
                    harbour in sight!
                As to Althea Cartwright, to whom I shall not recur again, I need only say that
                    when her aunt died she found herself, as she had been always promised, supremely
                    well-endowed, and the owner of everything, save a handsome legacy to Sarah
                    Jones, the re-incarnate Ruth—by which this clever young person was enabled to
                    marry the inn-keeper of her native village, and live as a lady in her degree to
                    the end of her days.
                As soon as her affairs were settled, Althea went abroad, married an Italian
                    Marchese and became a Roman Catholic. Her husband died about two years after the
                    marriage; but she is still alive and well, a
                    white-skinned, flaxen-wigged old lady, fond of tea and cards, and enjoying life
                    in her own way. That way is the close companionship of priests, monsignori,
                    papalini of all kinds; and the consideration which surrounds a wealthy English
                    widow and convert in the Eternal City, where the Pope is still able to dispense
                    social honours to the faithful, and to float on the crest of the wave those whom
                    he favours—no matter what the secrets whispered to the discreet ears at the
                    other side of that grating of the confessional.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER V.
                MY anchor did not drag long. I was too energetic to be demoralized by my
                    first failure; and my fall in nowise maimed the hope and resolve which are the
                    best pioneers of certainty. Casting about for a continuance of press-work, which
                    was the substance, while my independent writings were the decorations, of my
                    income, I happened on a Parisian correspondentship just then vacant, and went
                    over to the Brain of the World as one of ‘Our Own.’
                Here I entered on a new set of experiences and broke fresh ground everywhere. I had several introductions, both private and
                    official; and some to the confraternity. But I did not find these last very
                    useful. I do not know how these things are managed now, when telegraphy has
                    equalized endeavour, but then the whole system was one of rivalry. In the
                    interests of his paper, each man wished to be first in the field and to have the
                    practical monopoly of private information. Hence, brotherly kindness, and doing
                    to others as you would be done by, did not obtain among men whose professional
                    loyalty lay in misleading, tripping up the heels of and outstripping their
                    competitors.
                One man, however, was free from this kind of class-jealousy; thinking that the
                    world was broad enough for everyone to move freely in his own place, and that it
                    was better for the public at large to receive true information than for even his
                    own paper only to have the truth and all the others to be stuffed with ‘ducks’
                    and lies. The man I mean was Frazer Corkran,
                    that generous and genial correspondent of the Morning Herald, whose
                    hand was ever open to his friends, who knew neither grudging nor jealousy, and
                    whose house was such a pleasant rendezvous for both the floating and the
                    resident literati. In him I found a willing guide and ready helper in my salad
                    days of inexperience; and many a time he put me straight when else I should have
                    gone astray, and filled my notebooks which else would have been half empty.
                I found as true a friend in his bright-witted and sympathetic wife—a woman always
                    glad to enlighten me with advice, to introduce me to those whom it was good for
                    me to know, and to give me information where I needed it. Theirs was one of the
                    pleasantest houses open to me—mixture of the home and the salon as it was; and I
                    soon became like an outlying member of the family, round whom the children
                        clustered as of right, and who was
                    admitted farther into the penetralia than were most.
                I also had the entrée to the salon of that sharp and amusing little woman who not
                    long since passed over to the majority at a far riper age than most of us
                    attain. When I knew her, Madame Mohl was already old—or at least she seemed old
                    to me in the insolence of my luxuriant youth; but she was in the perfection of
                    her mental powers. I cannot say in the perfection of her beauty, for she never
                    possessed the very faintest suspicion of good looks. Nor did she care to make
                    the best of herself as she was, but despised even such grace as comes from
                    trimness and conformity. Shall I ever forget the extraordinary figure she made
                    when once, as I called by appointment, I found her in dressing-gown and
                    slippers, sitting in the middle of the salon, reading, while the little girl
                    whom she had adopted was pulling at her scanty frizzled hair till it stood on end about her head—like a travestied
                    aureole, from glory brought down to burlesque?
                This was a pleasure to her, she said. She liked nothing so well as to have her
                    hair gently pulled while she was reading; but she might have remembered the
                    comical effect to those who saw her. I remember standing in the doorway for an
                    instant, terrified, thinking that she had gone mad. But she called me to her in
                    her smart, short, dislocated way; and I sat there, while she gave me lessons on
                    worldly wisdom and the little girl continued to pull out her staring locks.
                Her good ponderous husband was also kind to me. He was a very dungeon of
                    learning—I use the word intentionally—for, like a dungeon, for the most part he
                    kept his treasures under lock and key, away from the daily light, and only at
                    stated times made a grand gaol-delivery in his books. Still, he was gentle and human and knew when to unbend; and
                    though he did not take the initiative, he gave me valuable advice when I asked
                    for it, and such information as I wanted, and in all things treated me like a
                    rational being—though I must have been to him terribly embryonic and inchoate.
                    At that time I was still lost in the pathless morass of comparative mythology,
                    where, for want of the knowledge of Sanscrit and the true scientific method, I
                    did no good to myself nor to others. And to M. Mohl, whose intellect was
                    eminently practical and void of mysticism, my then fondness for ‘views’ and
                    ‘theories’ must have been wearisome enough. In looking back over the past, the
                    one thing which strikes me above all the rest is the wonder of the kindness I
                    received from men and women of matured minds and well-plenished intellects—I, so
                    crude, so fluid, so unformed as I must have been!
                All who knew Parisian society then, and for
                    many years after, will remember the famous salon in the Rue du Bac, with its
                    tea-table to the side; its pretty little Frenchwomen in smart white bonnets,
                    well-fitting black silk gowns, and graceful cashmere shawls—which last they hung
                    over the back of their chairs, thus avoiding the need of a cloak-room; its more
                    formal English ladies in conventional evening dress; its wits and literary
                    celebrities of all nations; its leaven of dull respectability to tone down the
                    brilliant Bohemianism which sometimes filtered through the more orderly pores;
                    its learned pundits and frivolous beauties; those three exquisite Americans—the
                    mother even more beautiful than the daughter, and the sister and aunt the
                    fairest of the triad, as the great Italian physician—he who afterwards became a
                    senator in Rome—found to his cost; that high-couraged English girl, then one of
                    the vanguard of the advanced women, and now
                    left behind in the rush of the movement; and the eccentricity of the hostess
                    herself, equalled only by her goodness of heart and vivacity of brain. No one
                    who was anyone at all was left out of that hospitable menagerie across the
                    Seine; and perhaps no room has been the birth-place of more important private
                    events than that of M. and Madame Mohl.
                For myself, I met there many notable people and made some good friendships; among
                    others that of William Rathbone Greg, one of our most brilliant men of the
                    immediate past. His ‘Creed of Christendom’ had had an immense fascination for
                    me, and his sparkling talk and pleasant personality completed the charm already
                    begun. Certainly, he often rasped me by his tremendous assumption of superiority
                    and the accusation of my own correlative folly. But he was so much older than I,
                    so much more experienced in all matters of
                    thought and observation, and I was personally so sincerely attached to him, that
                    I could bear his high-handed way of dealing with me with the equanimity
                    befitting the inferior. Even when he said to me, with that smile we all
                    know—half playful, half satirical:—‘You have no right to hold another opinion
                    when I have given you mine—I, one of the wisest of men—you, the most foolish of
                    boys’ even then I did not take fire, as it was in my nature to do, but accepted
                    the antithesis as accurate in all its parts.
                For which piece of good humour I earned his good will, and, as time went on, a
                    more valuable measure of friendship. But to the last he counted it to me for
                    blame that he could not influence me more than he did, and that I still
                    cherished thoughts and hopes, specially about human progress and perfectibility,
                    which he gave himself some trouble to destroy.
                
                Earnestness in searching for truth has always this penalty to pay:—Everyone who
                    is convinced of the rightness of his own views thinks he has but to put these
                    views before you—clearly, forcibly, with the authority of his conviction—and
                    that you will at once adopt them and go over to his side. When you do not, he is
                    disappointed, displeased, and possibly changes his opinion of you altogether and
                    ceases to be your friend.
                This has been my experience again and again. I do not suppose many minds have
                    been more laboriously worked over than has mine by those who, convinced in their
                    own persons of this or that unprovable truth, have tried to make me see that
                    light which for them has put out all the rest. And I never could! I was never
                    able to see more than the spectroscopic lines which revealed constituents.
                It never came to the point of severance with my
                    dear friend, the political Cassandra who thought he had found a satisfactory
                    answer to so many of the Enigmas of Life, and that those which he could not
                    explain were essentially insoluble. To the last of our intercourse he was an
                    indulgent kind of Mentor, though I made but a recalcitrant and unsatisfactory
                    Telemachus; and, if he never changed his opinion on my illimitable foolishness,
                    he honoured me with his trust, his confidence, and in some sort his affection;
                    and he knew, as he once said, that I was as true as steel to him and all other
                    friends, and that my heart was sound if my head was not.
                I also met the famous poet-couple, the husband and wife, of whom whereof in those
                    days she was the more popular and famous. Now the ‘whirligig’ has reversed their
                    respective positions, and his star is in the ascendant, gibbous and rough-edged
                    as it is, while hers has comparatively declined. She was always very genial in manner to me when I saw her,
                    but she did not like me. She wrote to a common friend, poor Fanny Haworth—she
                    who just touched excellence at so many points and never quite achieved it—and
                    her adverse verdict was rather severe.
                ‘I have seen your favourite boy, Christopher Kirkland,’ she said; ‘and I do not
                    like him. He is not true.’
                When she talked to me she used to look at me through the dropping curtains of her
                    long ringlets as if she would have read my secret soul. I used to feel as if I
                    were on a moral dissecting-table, while she probed my thoughts and touched
                    speculative tracts which probably seemed to her hopelessly wrong and corrupt.
                    She did not show that she disliked nor distrusted me, but something about me
                    must have jarred her highly strung sensitive nature.
                I was very sorry when I knew what she had said
                    of me. I cannot remember anything of the kind which pained me more, and nothing
                    has stung so deeply. If she had shown me her mind I would not have felt it so
                    much; but she did not; and in those days I was young enough, and sincere enough,
                    to take things as they seemed to be and to believe in appearances as realities.
                    And, naturally affectionate as I was, with my heart on my sleeve, I credited
                    those who acted towards me with kindness with the same sympathetic instincts as
                    I myself possessed.
                I had another adverse verdict flung at me at this time. There came to Paris a
                    certain Dr. Hughes, who had taken for me one of those unfounded dislikes which
                    sometimes blind even good men to the sense of fairness and justice. I had never
                    seen him nor had he seen me; but I suppose he had heard something against me;
                    and what he did not know he imagined—which does just as well for that kind of antipathy which is based on
                    conjecture, not intercourse. Finding that I was a friend in the house of some of
                    his friends, he spoke of me strongly and bitterly, and made the husband at least
                    believe that I was an atheist, a socialist of the worst type, the propagandist
                    of all sorts of immoral and subversive opinions, and in no wise a safe nor fit
                    comrade for young people.
                Alarmed by this evil report, the husband wanted to forbid me the house; but the
                    wife stood by me with all a good woman's courage of charity, and I was thus
                    saved the pain of ostracism without knowing my offence. I was ignorant of the
                    skirmish at the time, and only heard of it when the danger was past. Meanwhile,
                    by my dear friend's clever management, I met Dr. Hughes in her salon and was
                    straightway introduced to him—he, thus taken unawares, being unable in common
                    politeness to escape.
                
                One of the strangest revulsions of feeling I have ever witnessed took place that
                    night, and through my whole life I have never known so great a personal triumph.
                    Frankly, it is to ‘peacock myself’ on this that I tell the story at all.
                Knowing nothing of his hostility, and speaking to Dr. Hughes without suspicion or
                    embarrassment, and as respectfully as I would to any one else of whom I had
                    heard only good things and worthy, I won him over from enmity to liking, not
                    conscious of what I was doing. To this hour I can see his eyes, deep-set,
                    glittering, penetrating, full of fire and thought as they were, turned on me,
                    doubting, questioning, and then with kindly glances, as we stood together for a
                    long two hours on the balcony beneath the stars, and discussed many things of
                    life and faith. And I can yet feel the touch of his broad hand on my shoulder
                    when, as I turned to go back into the room, he
                    half held me so that I should look at him squarely, and said, smiling—and for
                    all the sternness of his face and character his smile was sweet almost to
                    pathos:
                ‘I am glad I have seen you and talked with you face to face. I know you better
                    now than I thought I did.’
                Dr. Hughes was as unorthodox as I was myself. But he made up in increased moral
                    austerity for his abandonment of old theological restraints. He was a political
                    economist of the hardest, as he was a philosopher of the most ascetic, type. A
                    broad strain of Scotch Puritanism ran through his nature, and he allowed no
                    margin for ‘slopping over,’ no excursions into the forbidden regions of unlawful
                    passion. He had forsworn Hades and he did not believe in the devil; but in his
                    code materialism was virtually Satan, and looseness was the true region of 
                        dam-
                        damnation
                     nation. What he had heard or
                    imagined of me made him believe that I slopped over at all four corners; that I
                    was a rank Materialist and a frank Epicurean; and he felt bound to testify to
                    the cloven foot he made sure was hidden within my boot.
                In those days I was a fervent Deist and by no means an ethical latitudinarian;
                    though I confess I was so far a hedonist in that I thought happiness a human
                    good, and pain and misery evils which it was our duty to avert from others when
                    we could, and our wisdom to avoid for ourselves.
                Besides those whom I have mentioned, I knew slightly Ary Scheffer; I was once
                    presented to Béranger, who was too closely surrounded by his intimates to give
                    much thought to an outside stranger; and I knew Daniele Manin. With this last
                    indeed, my relations were friendly almost to intimacy; and I used often to go
                    and see him at his meagre rooms in the unfashionable quarter where he lived. He was always wrapped in
                    cloaks and blankets, and complained much of the cold; but he was ever dignified
                    and noble. His daughter was then in bad health. It was the sad beginning of the
                    sadder end; for when she died all that was essentially Manin died too, and the
                    broken heart of the father put the finishing touch to the ruined career of the
                    patriot.
                More than anyone I have known Manin made me feel the disadvantage of domestic
                    affections when a man is the leader of a cause, and how far wiser it is for
                    those who are self-consecrated to the service of humanity to keep free from
                    family ties. This loneliness within allows of so much the more activity without.
                    It made part of the secret of Mazzini's enduring power; and Manin, without the
                    heart-break of his desolated home, might have been for years longer an active
                    agent in that Italian Unity which came too
                    late for him to share in its glory and its triumph.
                At this time I was poor rather than well off, and I had to live modestly if I
                    would live honourably. Hence I had my eyrie on the fifth floor, where I shared
                    the apartment of a young fellow a few years older than myself. His French mother
                    and Irish father were dead—the latter quite lately—and his sole inheritance was
                    the lease of this apartment for the five years it had to run. We lived a rough
                    kind of life; but at our age roughnesses did not count. An old woman used to
                    come in the morning to ‘faire le ménage’ for the day; after which we were left
                    to ourselves. We had to take our meals out of doors, save the ‘premier déjeûner’
                    of bread and coffee; and we had only two rooms—one each. But our friends used to
                    toil up those five flights to visit us. Men of note, women of condition, young
                    fellows like ourselves—they all came to make
                    merry or to talk seriously, as the humour took them. Among the rest I remember
                    Mr. Thackeray coming here to see me; and the good-humoured way in which he sat
                    on the flat-topped black box, not to disturb the mass of papers heaped on my
                    second chair, was especially delightful. Mr. Greg also used to come; but he
                    generally fell foul of my hundred and ninety steps; and it was here that I first
                    saw Henry Wills, who, with his wife, afterwards became one of my dearest
                    friends.
                My young landlord, Léon O'Byrne, had a small employment somewhere—I never knew
                    what it was nor where. His only sister was governess in an old Legitimist family
                    of high rank and fortune—the Marquis and Marquise de Boiscourt. Through Leon I
                    became acquainted with these charming people, whom I was fortunate enough to
                    please. Madame la Marquise was specially good to me; and we soon became fast friends. She always wore a broad gold
                    bracelet, which one day she took off and showed me. It contained a lock of hair,
                    underneath which was engraved: ‘Mon roi. Henri Cinq.’ There was also a date,
                    which I forget. Perhaps it was that of his birth, or of his visionary accession;
                    in any case it was a sacred memory. The outside of the bracelet bore the crown
                    of France surmounting the letter H,—both wrought in diamonds.
                I often went to the Boiscourt Hotel in the Faubourg St. Germain; and I met there
                    the then famous Jasmin, the Provençal barber, whose ‘papillotes’ were the
                    fashion among the fine ladies, somewhat as the works of Barnes, our Dorsetshire
                    poet, were the fashion here in London a few years ago. Jasmin had been invited
                    to give a reading of his poems to a select circle, wherein I had been generously
                    included. All the ladies wept; and Jasmin himself wept more copiously than did they. He was begged to repeat one
                    of the poems—the one which had most moved his audience and himself; and I was
                    rather amused to note how his voice broke on exactly the same words, how he wept
                    at exactly the same passages, and how the whole of the second reading was the
                    precise echo of the first. Not an intonation, not a gesture, not a look nor
                    emphasis was in any way changed; and this second reading, in destroying all
                    appearance of spontaneity, destroyed all vestige of illusion.
                Madame la Marquise was naturally a profound believer in the saints. She told me
                    that if ever I lost anything I was to pray to St. Anthony of Padua, and he would
                    find it for me. She instanced the truth of this heavenly interposition by
                    telling me how, a week ago, she had lost her diamond necklace. She had been out
                    to a soiree, and 
                        when
                         hen
                     she left her carriage and went upstairs, her necklace was gone. They searched everywhere for
                    it, but in vain. Then she prayed to St. Anthony of Padua, and promised him a
                    candle if he would help her. The next morning her diamonds were found in the
                    courtyard, just there where she had stepped from her carriage. If that was not
                    confirmation strong, what was or could be?
                She was kind enough to ask me to spend some time at her country house, where I
                    went with Léon, and where I enjoyed myself immensely. But perhaps this was more
                    on account of the novelty of all I saw than because of the intrinsic
                    pleasantness of the arrangements. Things to which I have become accustomed now,
                    and which are as natural to me as old home habits, were then strange and
                    unusual; and my faculty of observation, always alert, had enough to occupy
                    it.
                The family, Legitimist and devout to their finger-tips, lived in that
                        quasi-patriarchal style which only exists
                    in families of high rank where relative positions are too sharply defined for
                    any kind of blurring to be possible, and which is clearly a survival of serfdom
                    and seigneurial prepotency. The upper servants had lived all their lives in the
                    family; and the younger ones, who were the children of peasants on the estate,
                    training under the direction of their elders, would not have dared to have given
                    up their places, to which they were also destined for the whole of their natural
                    lives.
                These old upper servants were familiar and affectionate, but never disrespectful
                    nor presumptuous: they were simply the inferior members of the household, but
                    always integral to the family. The old butler used to mingle in the conversation
                    at table while handing round the dishes. He would confirm what M. le Marquis
                    said, and put Madame la Marquise right when she blundered; or he would
                    contradict M. 
                        Wil-
                        Wilfrid
                     frid when he spoke at random, as
                    boys will; or he would tell me what I ought to eat with a kind of humane
                    condescension to an outside barbarian and heretic that was infinitely amusing.
                    Every day, after the second breakfast, at twelve o'clock precisely, he, the
                    lady's-maid, and the housekeeper, used to go out for a formal walk down the
                    avenue. This was as much part of the day's doings as that second breakfast
                    itself. The lady's-maid sat with Madame la Marquise in her bedroom; and the two
                    talked together as they sewed in concert more like sisters than mistress and
                    maid. Madame la Marquise, always superbly dressed, did not disdain a host of
                    unseen economies never practised by Englishwomen of a certain status. But one of
                    her many complaints against Englishwomen was their extravagance in the unseen
                    parts of dress, such as linings and the like. Another was the wicked way in
                    which they crumpled their skirts and spoilt
                    them generally by unhandy usage.
                That bedroom of Madame la Marquise was a great rendezvous for us all. She had
                    been in England, and she had instituted four o'clock tea—not then so general as
                    it is now—where we had buttered toast ‘à l'Anglaise,’ which they all preferred
                    to cake. M. le Marquis and the young men used to come to these symposia in
                    shirt-sleeves, and without waistcoats. And it made no difference that
                    Mademoiselle Sara, Léon's sister and the governess to Mademoiselle Berthe, the
                    only girl, was there; or that Madame la Marquise herself was in a déshabille
                    startling in its buttonless intimacy or what Italians call ‘confidenza.’
                M. Wilfrid, the youngest son, did not often join us. He was still under tuition,
                    and in the care of M. l'Abbé, who literally never let him out of his sight,
                    never allowed him to be away from him one moment, day nor night, except when he was with his mother. The
                    boy was then seventeen; and I think our average schoolboys would have set him
                    down laconically as an ‘awful duffer.’ I used to pity him for what was
                    substantially a life of slavery, for a strictness of surveillance beyond that
                    which we think necessary for our girls. It seemed to me an enervating,
                    emasculating thing all through, and ill-calculated to make a man of the best
                    type.
                Indeed, I did not think much of the essential manliness of any of the young men.
                    They were all ‘petits maîtres,’ dissipated rather than energetic, and with the
                    strangest mixture possible of indifference, unbelief and superstition in
                    religious matters. I remember my unbridled contempt for the little round kind of
                    summer-house in the garden, wherein the sportsman shuts himself, with loop-holes
                    for sight and aim, whence, after having scattered seed all about for the
                        birds, he can pot them comfortably as they
                    feed on the ground. After our honest sport on marsh and moor and stubble-field,
                    this miserable pretence was cousin-german to a crime.
                We ‘made maigre’ three times a week—Wednesday, Friday and Saturday—and we were
                    devout members of the Church in every way. Since a dangerous illness of
                    Mademoiselle Berthe, when she was ‘vouée au bleu et au blanc’ for two years,
                    with great gifts promised to the Virgin should she recover, Madame la Marquise
                    had ‘entered into the way of religion,’ and she carried her family with her.
                    This did not prevent some frightful scandal attaching to one of her sons whose
                    name was never mentioned, and who had gone across the seas, heaven knows where;
                    nor the dissipation of the eldest; nor the want of moral principle in every
                    direction of the nephew whom she had brought up as her own son, and who combined the most extraordinary amount of
                    ‘fastness’ with the most wonderful apparent docility to ‘ma tante’; nor the
                    Jove-like gallantries of M. le Marquis, whose amourettes were as notorious as
                    they were numerous. The pretty post-mistress of the village, whose appointment
                    was owing to him, for all that he stood aloof from the Emperor and all his
                    works—the curly-headed children he danced on his knees and set to hunt for
                    bonbons in his capacious pockets—this young girl and that young wife—M. le
                    Marquis indemnified himself in lordly manner enough for the enforced asceticism
                    to which Madame la Marquise condemned him!
                And no one thought the worse of him. He and his wife were perfectly good friends;
                    and what she knew was her own affair only. Her blameless life did not allow of
                    recriminations, even if she made reproaches, which it was very likely she did
                    not make; and the two went on together in
                    apparently perfect harmony and accord, and ‘ma femme’ was the first care,
                    consideration, and centralized authority with M. le Marquis, who, while he
                    amused himself, took care not to hurt her.
                I was at first amused, but soon became bored, by the limp invertebrate pleasures
                    which diverted the household. Ecarté, where the stakes were bonbons; billiards,
                    without science or precision, and merely so much child's play—these were the two
                    great resources of the evening. But when they were alone the young men
                    indemnified themselves by their talk, which was all of Paris, the Boulevards,
                    the theatres, Mabille and women, flavoured with a ripeness of experience as
                    strong as the absinthe of which they had a secret store not sparingly used. This
                    was the first time I heard it plainly stated that the virtue of women is not
                    man's affair, and that he is a fool who does
                    not profit when and where he can. A girl ought to be looked after by her mother;
                    a young wife by her husband; a woman of maturer age must take care of herself.
                    In no case does it fall within the duty of a man to protect or respect her. When
                    I had first heard of the extraordinary precautions taken by French mothers and
                    gouvernantes for the efficient protection of young girls, I had been both
                    indignant and amazed. It had seemed to me an insult to everyone concerned. But I
                    have somewhat modified my views since then; and I think a few barriers in early
                    life not quite needless, even among ourselves.
                On the whole, I was not sorry when my prescribed fortnight came to an end. I had
                    got all the good I could get out of the novelty of the thing, and I was tired of
                    the flaccidity of life as laid down in that unpicturesque, dead-alive old place.
                    But I was sorry to part from Madame la Marquise, whose kindness to me had been almost maternal; for all that I knew she was
                    afraid of my freer English habits and more independent modes of thought, and
                    would as soon have thrust Mademoiselle Berthe into a lion's den as have trusted
                    her to me for one minute alone. Still, she was so thoroughly well-bred and so
                    good that she never made me feel uncomfortable because uncovenanted. I divined,
                    rather than was shown experimentally, the state of her mind; and, though
                    naturally it was not pleasant to me, it was only what was to be expected from
                    her.
                I remember, however, being considerably exercised one day by the contempt with
                    which she spoke of the English for their ‘romantic marriages.’ Marrying for love
                    without sufficient means, preferring the person to settlements and affection to
                    ambition, was to her one of the seven deadly social sins for which was no 
                        forgive-
                        forgiveness
                     ness. A runaway match with a
                    detrimental was an infinitely worse crime in a girl than was the most flagrant
                    infidelity in a wife; and the unpracticality of romance counted for more than
                    the immorality of vice.
                This too, was one of those new views which, when first heard, make an
                    ineffaceable mark on the mind. They add a strand to the skein, certainly; but at
                    the moment they shock, repel, and give a general sense of instability to
                    everything. And when Madame la Marquise first launched forth against love in
                    favour of convenience in marriage, I seemed to be listening to the wildest kind
                    of moral treason, and wondered how any good woman could hold such awful
                    principles. Now, in my old age, I have come to think that a great deal is to be
                    said for the French method of marriage-making, tenderly and judiciously carried
                    out; and that the blind impulses of inexperienced passion are not quite the solid foundations for happiness it is the
                    fashion in England to assume them to be; but that knowledge and reason and
                    foresight come in here, as in every other fact of human life; and that niceness
                    of daily habits, and ease from the carking cares of impecuniosity, go far to
                    render existence endurable, even in the absence of the ideal.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER VI.
                WHEN I went back to Paris, I fell in with that beautiful and most
                    unhappy woman whose head and neck were so strangely the human representation of
                    the Ionic column, and who was one of the most pronounced of the man-haters and
                    woman-defenders of her time. Sex with her determined everything. To be a man was
                    to be a monster; to be a woman was to be probably a saint and certainly a
                    victim. The most manifest perjury, if of a woman against a man, she received
                    without examination and believed without doubt; and she justified all viragoes on the ground of the provocation received by
                    the sex, if not individually by themselves—a provocation which called for and
                    glorified reprisals and revenge.
                Through her I knew one who had been in her day the most famous of our tragic
                    actresses, till she married and made herself the most miserable of wives, and
                    her husband as wretched as herself. The deep voice and stage-stateliness of
                    manner, the assumption of supremacy and really cruel strength of this lady,
                    crushed me flat. The way in which she levelled her big black eyes at me, and
                    calmly put her foot on me, was an experience never to be forgotten. The pitiless
                    brutality of her contradictions; her scathing sarcasm; her contemptuous taunts,
                    knowing that I was unable to answer her; the way in which she used her matured
                    powers to wound and hurt my even then immature nature, gave me a certain shuddering horror for her, such as I fancy a
                    man would feel for one who had flayed him in the market-place. I am thankful to
                    Fate which never threw us together again.
                Years after, I knew her yet more gifted sister in Rome. She was a very different
                    person—as womanly as this other was virile; as sweet and generous and
                    sympathetic as this other was arbitrary insolent, and inhuman. A characteristic
                    little trait of the former was told me, instancing, to my way of thinking, the
                    stony and unyielding quality of her mind. She was used to number all her dresses
                    and hang them up in rows. If it came to the turn of her gold tissue to be worn,
                    she would wear it, though she might be going to a simple family dinner; if it
                    were the turn for a morning silk, she would wear that, though she had to appear
                    at a stately ball. This was her method of expressing order; and in this apparently insignificant little habit may be
                    seen the germ of all she was and did, and the cause of all she suffered and made
                    others suffer.
                My lady the Ionic column was continually going over to Paris, which she
                    anathematized when she got there. She used to say with vehemence that it was the
                    worst city in the world; and I have seen her shudder with horror as she spoke.
                    As I had not then peeped behind the screen, I thought her both prejudiced and
                    fantastical, as well as illogical for voluntarily living so much in a place she
                    held to be good only for fiends and satyrs. I used to listen to her with frank
                    amazement. Taken up as I was with my work, and satisfied with life as it came to
                    me on the broad highway, I had neither time nor inclination for excursions into
                    dark passages and shameful byways. Therefore I had seen nothing of all the vice
                    she so strongly deprecated, and I did not
                    believe in it. Moreover, I thought it then, and I think it now, the wisest plan
                    to take the apparent good as it offers itself, and leave untouched those hidden
                    evils which do not of themselves leap to our eyes, and with which we have no
                    official concern.
                Certainly I went about a little to doubtful places, as all young people do.
                    Mabille was then in its glory; La Closerie des Lilas was just opened; and the
                    Bals de l'Opera were also things for strangers to see. The students and
                    grisettes who danced the can-can and did their extraordinary steps at these
                    places, seem to me to have been different from the men and women who haunt the
                    public dancing-halls to-day. The fun and frolic, if decidedly fast and more than
                    ‘risqué,’ was more spontaneous, less professional, less commercial and
                    calculated than now, and the whole style of thing was simpler. It was all the
                    difference between the grisette and the
                    cocotte—the student of the Quartier Latin and the ‘petit crévé’ of the Boulevard
                    Italien.
                One painful and horrible face dwells in my memory. I forget the man's name, but
                    he had been the wealthy son of a master-baker, who had ruined himself at Mabille
                    and all that this represented. He was now an old man, penniless, and supported
                    by the charity of the Administration on which he had spent his large
                    inheritance; but, old as he was, he danced with the lightness of a youth and the
                    look and bearing of a satyr. His face was entirely that of the legendary satyr;
                    and I looked for the pointed ears and goat's legs. He was the most suggestive
                    and degraded specimen of European humanity possible to see, and might have been
                    taken as a living text for any number of sermons you will.
                My greatest pleasure, however, was not found in dancing-places, but in the
                        quiet country about Paris. I used to go
                    for long walks and excursions to Vincennes and Versailles, St. Germains, and
                    Fontainebleau, Asnières, Ville d'Avray, and the like; and I was never so happy
                    as when noting some new aspect of nature. For among the contradictions with
                    which my life is full is that of the most passionate love for nature and
                    voluntary residence in towns. From quite early childhood I had this delight in
                    nature, and I remember things which struck me even when I was so small a boy
                    that I was frightened by finding myself alone in the garden:—as, that dark cloud
                    which hung over our ‘burgomaster’ mountain to the north, while the vale below
                    and the hills around were bathed in sunshine; that double rainbow which spanned
                    the whole vale; those big drops of the thunder-shower; the revelation of folds
                    and secondary peaks in the mountains opposite by a sudden outburst of sunlight,
                    and then the sinking back into an
                    undifferentiated mass when that sunlight passed. I cannot date the first times
                    when I noticed these phenomena; but they were in quite early days, standing out
                    from the chaotic darkness of the rest. I remember when I first noted the
                    different shapes of certain buds of trees, e.g., the difference
                    between those of the horse-chestnut and the lime; I can yet put back certain
                    rosebushes and honeysuckles found in the hedges; and, if it still exists as a
                    field, I could walk straight to that corner of the field where I once found what
                    I suppose must have been an oxlip. But it is more than fifty years since I have
                    seen the place.
                I remember the smell of the laurestinus and the bay-trees the first evening we
                    arrived at my father's Kentish home; and the kind of awe with which those two
                    cedars in the shrubbery opposite inspired me. I remember certain days of
                    snowstorm when the fast-falling flakes were driven before the pitiless wind, and I gave them the pain of hunted
                    creatures as they were hounded on—now in eddying circles, and now in straight
                    lines. I remember how the rain one day came down like a white sheet at Eden; and
                    I can still see my father going through the garden gate to Sunday morning duty,
                    struggling against the wind, and half shrouded within the cascade of rain, of
                    which also I remember thinking it was a return of the Deluge. Certain sunsets
                    are yet plainly visible to my mental eye; and the new flowers I found in the
                    fields and woods and waste places about Paris are photographed on my memory, as
                    are the sunsets and the flowers of later years, seen and found in beloved
                    Italy.
                And yet, the rush and grandeur of human life in London and Paris, and the sense
                    of being in the heart of all this emotional and intellectual movement, were more
                    fascinating to me than even the beauty and the
                    peace of nature. Hence the want of consistency which has marked my career from
                    first to last has its part in the apparent contradiction of delighting in every
                    circumstance and manifestation of nature, and electing to live in cities.
                Through Léon O'Byrne I became acquainted with a typical Frenchwoman of a certain
                    kind—one Mademoiselle Cléonice. Though in a small way, she was the real ‘femme
                    de commerce’ of Paris; and to know her was to know a whole class. She was about
                    thirty-five years of age, trim, neat, plump, tight, sharp. She was not pretty
                    when dissected bit by bit, but she was ‘arranged’ with such faultless taste as
                    to be charming and attractive on the whole. She was always dressed in black silk
                    or soft black stuff, without frills or furbelows of any kind; and her gowns had
                    that wonderful look of having been moulded on her, like a second skin, which is so peculiarly French. She wore linen
                    collars and cuffs of scrupulous whiteness; round her neck was a small narrow
                    handkerchief tied in a bow; and the smartest and prettiest kind of cap, made of
                    filmy lace trimmed with pink ribbon, took off the severity of her smoothly
                    braided blue-black hair. She was the trimmest and best got up little woman of
                    the quarter, and was never seen with a thread awry.
                She lived in the small room behind her smaller shop, where she sold laces, caps,
                    embroidery and other feminine finery; and her room was as neat as herself. The
                    mahogany bed was in an alcove concealed by curtains; the toilet apparatus was in
                    a dark closet to the side. The mahogany furniture and crimson velvet chairs; the
                    white muslin curtains tied with pink ribbon, hour-glass fashion; the ormolu
                    clock and candelabra on the marble chimney-piece; the chimney-glass and
                    marble-topped mahogany drawers; the red velvet
                    sofa and the red velvet fauteuil—all were
                    signs of bien-être, approaching to luxury for
                    one of her class; and all were of a cleanliness, an order, that was of itself
                    artistic poverty and scientific beauty.
                Her way of life was typical. She lived absolutely alone, without a servant or
                    assistant; but a ‘femme de journée’ came every morning to sweep and dust; a man
                    from the street took down and put up her shutters; her food was sent in from a
                    ‘traiteur's’ hard by; and when she wanted a holiday, she put up her shutters,
                    locked the door, took the key in her pocket, and was free of all restraints.
                    Thus she kept her apartment intact and undisturbed, and where she hid away her
                    loose ends was a marvel.
                In manner she was at once fascinating and provocative, petulant and caressing.
                    She had a high-pitched voice and an 
                        irrit-
                        irritable
                     able way of speaking, as if always
                    somewhat injured by some one and always complaining of something. Her temper was
                    uncertain and easily ruffled, though it was never violent and as little
                    enthusiastic; and her whole life was based on calculation. Passions, affections,
                    chances, duties, sins, self-restraint, or the reverse, all made a sum in the
                    living arithmetic of her days—so much to be gained by such and such an action,
                    so much to be lost. She could not have loved nor hated without this balancing of
                    her mental books; and of all the people ever known to me, she was the least
                    spontaneous. She was also slanderous and spiteful to an appalling extent, and
                    could not speak well of anyone. According to her, all the women she knew were
                    ‘drôleuses,’—all the men ‘coquins,’ when not ‘vauriens’ nor brigands. She
                    despised the English, now for their mathematical coldness, now, like Madame la
                    Marquise, for their 
                        unmathema-
                        unmathematical
                     tical romance. The Italians she
                    considered sinks of iniquity as fathomless as the Pit whence they came and
                    whither they would return. But her own people were even worse; and of the ten
                    righteous men who might have saved Paris, could they but be found, she denied
                    the existence of more than one. Of one person only she forebore to speak evil,
                    though she also never committed herself so far as to speak good.
                This was a certain M. Bolivard, an elderly man, who wore very loose clothes and a
                    very white waistcoat; obese, loose-lipped, sharp-eyed; with a skin like yellow
                    ivory, and a black head, clipped close like a clothes-brush. He was the
                    landlord, patron, and book-keeper of the trim little ‘lingère,’ and came
                    regularly on Wednesday and Saturday evenings to inspect her accounts and see how
                    she was getting on. On these days she was always in an atrocious humour, and
                    Léon, who was a pet of hers, was forbidden her
                    place after four in the afternoon, as if he would have brought the plague.
                From Mademoiselle Cléonice I learnt a good deal about the commercial class all
                    round; and if half she told me were true, and the present is like the past, Zola
                    has not exaggerated. The corruption of the ‘petite bourgeoisie’ is as complete
                    as that of the ‘haute volée;’ and no strokes are too broad, no ink too black, by
                    which the inventory of their vices is made. But her own vice of slander made me
                    hesitate before I believed all the rest, and the homely old saying about the pot
                    and the kettle took off a good layer of soot from the latter. Still, she was a
                    bright little companion, so far as she went; and if she went no deeper than the
                    froth in champagne, it was always champagne that frothed; and her repartee was
                    as smart as her mind was shallow.
                
                The most important of my Parisian friends, however, was Madame de Clairvaux, a
                    Parisienne born and bred, who knew Paris and the whole art and mystery of life
                    there, as she used to say, ‘comme sa poche.’ Her revelations were even more
                    startling than those of Mademoiselle Cléonice, and more trustworthy, because
                    neither spiteful nor made for the purpose of a disguise. She made them quite
                    freely and impartially, almost scientifically. As I was young, a man of letters
                    and a student of humanity, she said I ought to know the truth of things. And
                    though I thought I did, pretty accurately, I certainly did not know so much
                    before Madame de Clairvaux undertook to enlighten me as I did after.
                The apotheosis of the demi-monde was just then beginning. The ‘Dame aux
                    Camellias,’ with Madame Doche and Fechter as Marguerite and Armand, had made all
                    Paris weep, and had still further loosened the
                    joints of its never too stiffly buckramed virtue. But it seemed to me impossible
                    to know where the demi-monde began and where it left off, save in the matter of
                    public notoriety. Of Madame de Clairvaux's own friends—all women of good family,
                    good social standing and apparent repute—there was not one who did not belong to
                    that famous basket of speckled peaches—not one who had not qualified herself for
                    condemnation on account of that Damyan of hers hidden among the leaves.
                Some of Madame de Clairvaux's stories were wonderfully graphic and romantic; and
                    some read hardly like truth as we have it in this sober age of prose and
                    commerce. For instance, that anecdote of Madame de Niemand—who kept her lover
                    for six weeks in secret in the loft of her country-house, while her husband was
                    absent, and only she, her child and her sister, were at Ville Saint-Jean; the
                        droll expedients she had to adopt to give
                    him food, fresh air and exercise; her foraging expeditions in the kitchen at
                    night, after the servants had gone to bed; the cook's amazement at the
                    disappearance of his stores, and the awful burden which that midnight appetite
                    of ‘Mademoiselle Marie ma sœur’ had to bear; the rambles in the woods and
                    grounds, under the stars, of the two lovers who more than once were taken for
                    ‘lutins’ and ‘les dames blanches,’ and once ran great risk of being fired on as
                    robbers; and the wild mad happiness of the time—it was a romance from preface to
                    colophon. But had it been written in a novel, the critics would have been down
                    on the author as an absurd bungler who imagined things out of the line of
                    possibility. Yet it was all true; and Madame de Clairvaux knew it. Another time
                    Madame de Niemand, who was as beautiful as an angel, slipped away from a ball
                    where she was and her lover was not. He was a
                    poor artist, by the way, and lived in a garret. Suddenly there appeared before
                    him a vision which, for a moment, he took to be unreal. Madame de Niemand in her
                    ball-dress of pale pink and silver, her cloak thrown off, her hands held out,
                    stood there in that dingy garret like the incarnation of beauty, love and
                    riches; and for a moment he lost his senses and swooned at her feet. The
                    contrast between his poverty and her splendour was too great, and the joy, so
                    unexpected, was too strong.
                The little daughter born of this intrigue was the husband's favourite of the
                    whole family, and the one in whom he took the greatest pride. As for suspicion
                    of his wife, he had not the faintest trace. On the contrary, with this child on
                    his knee he said to his friend, the lover in question:
                ‘Of one thing I am perfectly sure, Emmeline has never deceived me.’
                
                ‘You may swear that by the life of your mother,’ said the lover calmly, laying
                    his hand caressingly on the child's fair head.
                ‘So much for the pretty theory of natural affection and the instincts,’ said
                    Madame de Clairvaux when she had finished, with an odd smile, and a rapid glance
                    at Henri and Alphonsine, playing demurely in the corner—Henri the rosy blondin,
                    the very counterpart of her fair Norman husband, while his little sister was as
                    black as a morella cherry.
                She told me many other things—always on the same lines; till I began to feel that
                    no such thing as womanly virtue nor manly constancy was left in the world, and
                    that Mrs. Hulme was right:—It was only a question of the eleventh commandment
                    and the comparative security of the door.
                During my stay in France I went to a pension near Tours, where M. and Madame de
                    Blainville, and M. and Madame Saint- Georges,
                    were living. M. de Blainville was, and had been for many years, ‘le bon ami’ of
                    Madame Saint-Georges. Meanwhile, he had married and she had cooled. He had not.
                    He had married for money, and his love remained intact. As for principle, that
                    did not come into the arrangement. In this house I fell into the heart of
                    mysteries and intrigues, where I was used now as a tool and now as a mask; and
                    where, in the beginning, I understood nothing, neither what I did nor what I
                    concealed, nor yet what was passing around me.
                It was emphatically diamond cut diamond with M. de Blainville and Madame
                    Saint-Georges; a game at chess with lives and hearts for pawns and queens, a
                    duel ‘à outrance,’ where the rapiers were none the less deadly at the points for
                    being covered with velvet at the hilts. Madame Saint-Georges had transferred her
                    affections from her old lover, whose marriage
                    she had never forgiven, to a handsome young fellow in the neighbourhood, to whom
                    such an adventure was a godsend. M. de Blainville, suspecting what was going on,
                    set his wits to work to prove what he feared. He had the light tread and the
                    supple spring of a panther, and no one ever knew where he was nor where he might
                    not appear when least expected. He used to say that he was going away for the
                    whole day, but he would conceal himself in the branches of a tree which served
                    as a kind of watch-tower whence he could see all that went on; and night and day
                    he stole about the house and grounds, noiselessly, untiringly, watching with the
                    vigilance of jealousy for the moment of conviction. I lived on the ground-floor;
                    and I slept with my windows open; safe against intruders by strong iron
                    stanchions and bars. Often at dead of night I used to be awakened by M. de Blainville suddenly calling me by my name;
                    and two or three times during the morning, as I sat there doing my work, a
                    shadow would fall across my paper, and I would look up to see those dark
                    gleaming eyes shining from beneath the broad sombrero as M. de Blainville said
                    to me curtly ‘Good-day,’ and passed on, satisfied that I at least was innocently
                    employed.
                At last he was rewarded. During one of his nocturnal prowls, when he was believed
                    to be in Paris and had been hidden all day in the woods, he saw a rope-ladder
                    hanging down from a certain window, not too high for a courageous man's leap. Up
                    this ladder he crept like a cat, and sprang lightly into the room. There was a
                    woman's smothered cry; a dumb struggle between two men; then a bold leap into
                    the dark; and Madame Saint-Georges had lost the game.
                
                That winter in Paris was a tremendous thermometrical experience. The water used
                    to be frozen hard in my tub, and I have often cut myself as with a knife with
                    the icicles in my sponge. One day my milk froze on the top of my inefficient
                    stove; and I never knew cold as I knew it then. But it was all experience, both
                    moral and physical, both social and ethical.
                After about two years of this strange life I was summoned back to England at a
                    moment's notice; and I had to leave just in time to escape some unpleasantness
                    to this day unverified. A general illumination had been ordered for the
                    Emperor's birthday, and each householder had been warned to light all his lamps
                    and candles, and make as brave a show in his window and on the balconies as was
                    possible. In my Republican pride and youthful folly I declined to add my quota;
                    and my special window remained dark. The next day I was summoned to appear at the Prefecture. As I was leaving that
                    night, and the summons was for the next day, I could not go.
                So the thing passed, and I heard no more of it. I knew that I had committed no
                    crime and broken no law; though now I acknowledge that I had offended against
                    good-breeding in refusing to conform to the regulations of the country which
                    gave me hospitality. The fact, however, of being ‘wanted by the police’ was in
                    itself a little disturbing, and I was glad to be out of it. The Empire had a
                    long arm and a heavy hand; and if I was hot-headed and absurd, the Government
                    was tyrannous and unscrupulous; and between the two it was I who would have got
                    worst off.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER VII.
                MY Parisian experiences changed my point of view in more things than one, and in
                    nothing more than on the marriage question. People would say those experiences
                    had corrupted me. Perhaps so. For sure it is that from this time I have thought
                    the laxity which reigns in society comes less from the corruption of the human
                    heart than because life is too monotonous here, or the laws are too strict
                    there. That is, I have learnt to condemn results less than to reason on
                    causes.
                With belief in direct revelation dies out the
                    divinity of laws as they stand. One gets to see that all society is built up by
                    experiments, and that the final word has not been said on anything. One gets to
                    see too, that, although to obey existing laws is the duty of every citizen, to
                    change them is the right of the community and to criticize them that of the
                    individual. Without doubt there is a better and a worse, a higher and a lower;
                    but nothing is absolutely final; and that ‘fourth dimension’ may be applied to
                    society as well as to space, and to morals and even matrimony as to other
                    things. I saw that in Roman Catholic countries the sublime theory of the
                    sacramental quality of marriage is wholly inoperative in practice, and that this
                    is none the more sacred because it is indissoluble. On the contrary, the
                    unyielding nature of the tie forces consideration for human weakness; and
                    adultery is condoned because divorce is impossible.
                
                The matrimonial ideal of the one love for life, beginning in youth, enduring
                    through maturity to old age, and ending only with death, is of course the purest
                    and noblest basis of the family. Extremes meeting, we see this condition
                    fulfilled in those elemental states of society where wants are few, the
                    intellect is undeveloped, the sphere restricted, and the instincts, satisfied,
                    leave no room for vagrant imagination—where in fact, there is no imagination to
                    go astray. But in a complex and widely differentiated society like ours—where
                    men cannot marry when young and women cannot marry where they would; where the
                    highly developed nervous organization of the race makes compatibility difficult
                    to find and incompatibility impossible to bear; where women's domestic life is
                    cramping and monotonous, the development of trade having robbed it of half its
                    duties and all its variety—post-nuptial dissatisfaction is fatally common for
                        both men and women alike. Hence, facility
                    of divorce by robbing inconstancy of its falsehood and substituting the honest
                    confession of incompatibility for the shameful detection of crime, is not only a
                    just relief, but is also an accumulation of virtue for the community. Thus,
                    though I have never gone so far as those who would have no bond outside
                    inclination, I have, since my Paris days, gone as far as those countries which
                    allow of divorce by mutual consent and without the necessity of committing a
                    crime to procure relief.
                These views are not considered now so subversive as they were when I was young
                    and before the passing of our own Divorce Law, which at least gives easily to
                    the poor what had been possible only with difficulty to the rich. Liberty of
                    opinion has made great strides since then, in spite of the persecutions which
                    have lately disgraced us; but we must never forget that these strides were first marked out by those who had the courage to
                    speak plainly and aloud, and the constancy to submit to the moral obloquy which
                    was their reward. Every time has its fetishes which must not be touched with a
                    profane hand, nor discussed as to their meaning or substance. To the Greek, his
                    sacred Xoana were mystical representations of the unseen gods and not battered
                    old blackened blocks of wood; to the Catholic peasant, the Miraculous Virgin of
                    the Santuario is the direct Giver of Health, the Healer by its own intrinsic
                    power, and not a hideous daub with as little art as divinity; to the seminarist,
                    his guardian angel is a fact and not a poetic dream; to the pious savage,
                    thunder is the voice of his god and the doctrine of an Impersonal Force would be
                    impiety and patent falsehood; and to us, our existing laws on marriage—not to go
                    farther afield—are as sacred and as unalterable as are all those material fetishes to their worshippers; and he
                    who discusses the one or the other from the ground-work of development and the
                    point of view of expediency is an infidel and profane.
                And yet my old friend Mrs. Hulme was right. There is no absolute; and we shall
                    have to try back and go forward many times yet before we reach perfection.
                No man can say that all things are perfect as they are, even in Protestant
                    monogamous England; and the cuckoo-cry of the wickedness of the human heart is
                    all excuse, not a reason. The worst possible legislation is that which
                    multiplies unnecessary restrictions, and thus creates artificial offences. The
                    best is that which leaves the individual unchecked liberty up to the point which
                    harms no one. For legislation, like everything else, develops and matures,
                    passing from the absolutism necessary for infancy to the freedom of the full-grown man. So it will some day be with
                    marriage—when the command: ‘You shall not, how much soever you may desire,’
                    shall give place to the wider line ‘You are the best judge for yourself.’
                I have dwelt on this subject so long because it was one of those which had the
                    most fatal influence over my future life. I was more or less a moral derelict
                    everywhere; but here I was not only abandoned, but actively accursed as
                    well.
                The young man's fancies that we know of ran lightly in those days in the
                    direction natural to my age. My position was sufficiently good to make marriage
                    possible, and I had begun to feel the lodgings into which I had gone when the
                    old boarding-house came to grief both lonely and oppressive. To be sure, all
                    that Parisian experience had been a little deterring, not to say intimidating;
                    but who believes that his neighbour's history will be his own? All women were not discursive, and faithful wives and honest
                    mothers were still to be found. I set myself, therefore, to look for that which
                    never comes when sought, and I did my best to fall in love with one or other of
                    the girls I knew—chiefly, of course, amongst the advanced class.
                Somehow, each failed to satisfy my taste all through. I was a Republican,
                    granted; but I was also a gentleman. I did not think then, and I do not think
                    now, that Republicanism or Freethinking exempts us from the obligation of the
                    most perfect courtesy, the most exquisite moral refinement. On the contrary. The
                    more you respect yourself, which is the key-note of Republicanism, the more you
                    will respect others; and the less you recognise divine command in the things of
                    life, the more you will be careful to maintain the very minutiæ of moral
                    delicacy. It is laid on you to prove to others that this spotless grace and 
                        deli-
                        delicacy
                     cacy—this stately moral heroism—is
                    the natural development of the moral sense, human and intrinsic, not taught from
                    without. Far from brutal disregard or slipshod license, the Republican and
                    Freethinker is bound to be more courteous and more self-restrained than others.
                    He has only himself for his own diploma. It behoves him, then, to be careful of
                    both parchment and endorsement.
                But, I confess it with a certain sense of shame—a certain sense of ethical
                    unmanliness in a fastidiousness which looked like disloyalty to my flag—all
                    these girls of the emancipated class sinned, or in grace and good breeding, or
                    in the more serious qualifications for domestic life. They were clever and
                    bright-witted; some were pretty and some were good; but either they were not
                    conventionally ladies or they were not trustworthy as future wives.
                There was Henrietta, tall, handsome, brilliant,
                    vigorous—a fine kind of nineteenth-century Diana in a duffel coat with big
                    buttons and outside pockets. She gave music lessons, to help her mother's narrow
                    income. So far, this was to her honour. But the life of the streets, and the
                    independence, freedom and breaking up of all domestic habits engendered thereby,
                    were destructive of more than regularity of hours. She was a brave accentuated
                    creature; an ardent Republican; a passionate woman's rights woman; a potential
                    martyr for liberty of thought and freedom of action; the kind of woman to be of
                    priceless value in a revolution, when she would have ridden fifty miles at a
                    stretch to carry papers, at the risk of her life, past the enemy's lines; a
                    woman to take the lead and keep it; a woman in her own right—‘maîtresse-femme’
                    from head to heel; good for action, for courage, for devotion and a hundred
                    other heroic virtues. But for the monotony of
                    domestic life? for the small submissions of wifehood? the larger self-sacrifices
                    of maternity? No! she was not fitted for these! When custom should have staled
                    the first freshness of love, and the inevitable reaction should have set in, she
                    would then have gone back to her old habits, to her vagabond life, to her
                    delight in her sense of freedom and self-support, to her quasi-masculinity of
                    custom, and her independence of hours and duties. And her own home would be the
                    place where she would be seen least.
                Then there was Laura, good, sweet-tempered, orderly, conformable. But she had not
                    a thought higher than the lowest mole-heap of practical utility. She would have
                    steeped herself in her domestic duties till nothing else was left. Her soul
                    would have simmered away in the stew-pan; and that basket of needlework would
                    have engulphed every vestige of her intellect. She would have sunk into the place of a fair and gentle
                    servant; and I wanted my wife to be my companion, not only my hand-maiden.
                Again, there was Kate, that passionate and desolate little virgin disgraced by
                    fortune and worthy of a better fate. She was lame, but very sweet and lovely in
                    the face; a spiritual, self-consuming, enthusiastic flame of fire, with a soul
                    that wore out her body and hidden passions that burned her as it were alive. I
                    was very fond of her, and she liked me; but she was my friend, not my lover, and
                    never could be.
                For worldly advantages Miss Daniels was the largest prize in the lottery; and I
                    knew, without vanity, that I had only to stretch out my hand, when she would put
                    herself and all she possessed into it. She ‘called cousins,’ as she expressed
                    it, with my old idol, King Dan, but—those buts!—she was seven years older than
                    I, and of portentous plainness. She was
                    perfectly well-bred and extremely well-educated; and she had fifteen hundred a
                    year. But it wanted only one or two little lines to make her face that of a
                    dromedary. And with my sensuous temperament some share of beauty was an
                    essential.
                Theresa, sweet and seductive, had not quite a clean bill of moral health; and I
                    did not care to come second. Mary was grace incarnate, but she was mad about
                    display, and thought the only propaganda of advanced opinions to touch the world
                    was to be made by diamonds and dinners. No! none of them would do. They were all
                    deciduous; and my fancies fell like autumn leaves. I was desperately in love for
                    four-and-twenty hours; and then I came out at the other side and recognised the
                    impossibility of things.
                This happened so often, that I began to believe myself incapable of anything like
                        a serious or sustained passion. Had I then
                    exhausted my heart in that one early outflow? was I now nothing but a bit of
                    moral thistledown, ever floating and never able to root?
                When I saw Cordelia Gilchrist the whole panorama of my life changed, and I fell
                    in love with her in that intense way which is almost like possession. It was not
                    because of her beauty, for, save a tall and graceful figure, perfect hands and
                    feet, and large deep blue or rather violet-coloured Irish eyes, she had no
                    beauty, properly so called. But she had that irresistible fascination which is
                    more than mere loveliness of feature. To see her was to love her; to love her
                    was more than a liberal education—it was to touch the sublimest moral heights.
                    Had I been able to forecast all that had to come, I would have done as I did, in
                    spite of the anguish involved. I loved her as a man of my character would perforce love the woman he found in every way
                    supreme, and whom he rejoiced to own his superior. I loved her with tenderness
                    and reverence combined; with the love of a man and the worship of a devotee;
                    with the same idealizing fervour as that which I had given to Adeline Dalrymple,
                    and with more consciousness of myself. And she loved me. It was a thing that
                    came at first sight on both sides, a sudden recognition of affinity for which
                    neither was responsible and which neither could resist. We were made for each
                    other. Each was the half which together made the completed human being.
                And yet, what hope was there? None! Cordelia was a Roman Catholic, sincere,
                    convinced, devout. And I was a Freethinker, a Deist, whose God was scarcely
                    Providence so much as the Universal Mind; a sociologist, unable to see society
                    as other than a series of experiments, where even marriage, which to her was a divine sacrament, was nothing but a
                    human convention to be righteously dissolved if it failed its appointed end.
                To Cordelia all that I thought was fearful blasphemy; and it is a marvel to me
                    now how her love withstood her horror. But the fact that it did lifts my feeling
                    for her into a kind of divine gratitude, which keeps her ever in the place of my
                    holiest and my best. In spite of her religious repugnance she loved me, the
                    human being. She would not abandon me, and she clung to the hope of my
                    conversion. Her director, too, was merciful, and suffered her to continue the
                    understanding—which was not a distinct engagement—in the belief that I should be
                    turned to the true faith by love. As I was still notoriously unanchored, denying
                    more than I affirmed—and mere negation is supposed to be a kind of
                    Götterdammerung which only wants the presence of Freya to disperse and make into living light—it was not impossible that
                    love should work this reformation in me, as it had in others before me, and that
                    I should come to my own happiness and make Cordelia's, as well as save my soul
                    alive, by giving another convert to the Church which alone is the true Ark of
                    Faith.
                But, as I could not accept the foundation, the superstructure had never a chance.
                    If Protestantism had been rejected for its unprovable assertions, what could I
                    do with Catholicism, which makes larger demands on our faith and adds stone upon
                    stone to the great temple of superstition? How could I speak of the Virgin Mary
                    as Deipara?—take part in her Litany?—believe in her own Immaculate
                    Conception?—call her ‘Mother of our Creator,’ and ask her to ‘deliver us from
                    all dangers?’ I went to mass with Cordelia because she wished it, and I was with
                    her. Had I believed in hell, I would have gone
                    there too, could I but have been with her. Ah! there could have been no hell
                    where she was! Francesca da Rimini must have carried heaven with her had Paolo
                    loved her as I loved Cordelia! And I let her chosen priests talk to me, because
                    it was her wish; and also because I learnt more clearly what she thought through
                    their teaching. But I was never stirred a hair's-breadth. Though I should lose
                    all, I could not command belief in what seemed to me mere fables from end to
                    end; and even against love I must be faithful to truth.
                What argument was it to me, when Father Nolan spoke of authority and the long
                    line of tradition, miracle and inspired counsel, which had remained unbroken in
                    the Romish Church from the establishment of Christianity to now? Their
                    traditions are not evidence; their miracles I disbelieved; and the Councils
                    presided over by a John XII., a Benedict IX.,
                    an Alexander VI., did not seem to me to carry with them strong assurance of
                    divine inspiration. For unbroken succession of teaching—have not Indian jugglers
                    also this? Does that make their juggling miraculous according to its seeming?
                    Could all the authority of all the popes and cardinals that ever lived
                        prove the truth of the Incarnation?—or manifest more than their
                    own belief in it?—or reconcile stories which oppose the laws of nature and deny
                    all that science teaches? Could authority and tradition harmonize
                    impossibilities? or make the distinct assertion that this generation shall not
                    pass away till such and such things be fulfilled, aught but a promise which
                    failed to justify itself? Could any number of Councils, of the same Church which
                    condemned Galileo, verify the standing still of the sun upon Gibeon and of the
                    moon in the valley of Ajalon?—or the going
                    back of the shadow on the dial ten degrees for a sign of healing to Hezekiah?
                    Who will keep the keeper? and who will verify the verifier?
                The great cardinal who then ruled over the Romish Church in England—whose
                    appointment had so fluttered the Protestant dovecote, and whose gigantic ‘guy’ I
                    had seen not so long ago as the expression of that fluttering—he, like Father
                    Nolan, found me impracticable; and what love for my darling could not win from
                    me, arguments, flawed from the base upwards, could still less! For I loved her!
                    I loved her!—how deeply, to my enduring sorrow I alone knew. I would have died
                    for her as willingly as other men would have received their supreme honour. I
                    would even have seen her married to another, if she had loved him and he had
                    been worthy of her. I loved her beyond self, beyond jealousy, beyond passion
                    itself. Her happiness was dearer to me than my
                    own; and to have known her blessed would have been more to me than any joy that
                    could have befallen myself. I loved her till I sometimes felt as if my heart
                    would break, as when something is overloaded—it may be with golden treasure; all
                    the same, it is overloaded;—and it breaks. I loved her beyond life and fame and
                    repute; and all that I had or desired of fortune was valuable only so far as it
                    regarded her. I would have accepted a title only to give it to her; and wealth
                    would have had no charm for me if I might not have shared it with her. I read
                    her into the universe and saw all things as the reflex—the shadow—of her. But I
                    could not lie—even for her!
                When I parted from her it was absolutely as if my heart were taken from my
                    body—as if my life were torn away physically. It was acute bodily suffering; and
                    more than once I had to use conscious self-control not to shriek like a man in
                    agony. Whenever she left me it was no longer
                    life, it was death—but death which retained the consciousness of pain. I would
                    have made myself her helot, if that would have done her good. I would have
                    sacrificed my whole position and have worked for her on the roads, in the mines,
                    at the lowest and vilest occupations, if she would have gained thereby. Had she
                    been stricken with leprosy, I would have taken her in my arms; had her breath
                    carried with it death, I would have kissed her lips till I died. It was for no
                    want of love. No man, living nor dead, in fact nor in fancy, ever loved with
                    more wholeness of devotion than I. But the Truth, as I conceived it, was my
                    Sacred Mother whom I must not betray. Let my heart break—let my life go down to
                    ruin—let me lose all and stand a beggar and an outcast instead of the glad
                    possessor of love and happiness—let me sit for ever among the ashes and live to
                    the end in the black midnight—but I must not
                    lie; and I could not! And had I still to make the choice, I would rather commit
                    personal suicide than, even for Cordelia, stand up in the market-place and say
                    ‘I believe’ what I hold to be a fable.
                On her side she was as firm as I was on mine, as passionately convinced of the
                    truth of her creed as I was of its falsehood. She had no alternative but to
                    refuse to marry me. How else could she have acted? She believed with the
                    intensest fervour of conviction all that I rejected with the vehemence of
                    denial. It would have been sacrilege to her Mother, the Church, and
                    blasphemy to God, had she married me, unbeliever as I was. Indeed, her Church
                    would not have sanctioned our union, nor could any priest have been found who
                    would have given us the blessing. And to her—a simply civil ceremony would have
                    made her, not my wife, but my concubine.
                
                ‘If only you would believe!’ she used to say to me with tears in her beautiful
                    eyes. Oh, those eyes! they haunt me still! those tears in them, which were like
                    blood drawn from my very heart! And yet both truth and honour forbade me to dry
                    them. My heart! my heart! how was it that you did not break?
                One day she laid her hand on my arm.
                ‘Become simply a believer in the Divine Incarnation,’ she said. ‘Be a Christian
                    of any denomination, and I will get the consent of the Church to marry you. But
                    how can I be the wife of one who disbelieves in the Divinity of the Saviour?—who
                    rejects the message of love and the means of reconciliation sent to a fallen
                    world by God through Christ? How could I ever say my prayers again, after having
                    committed such a deadly sin? and who would give me absolution while I went on
                    living in it?’
                
                And what could I say but repeat the old sad cry?—
                ‘I cannot believe, and I cannot lie, even for you!’
                But almost worse than my theological unbelief was my moral unsoundness; and
                    specially on that marriage question. There seemed in this a certain kind of
                    personal contamination which touched her own purity. My want of belief in the
                    sacramental quality of marriage seemed to rob it of all sanctity, and to make
                    it—on my side, at least—nothing better than a veiled and decent sin.
                ‘What security,’ she once asked, ‘have men or women with wives or husbands who
                    think as you do? If marriage is merely a civil contract, dissoluble at
                    pleasure—a social convenience without intrinsic sacredness—what security is
                    there? Yourself, Christopher—if I have no stronger hold on you than your
                    fancy—is that inalienable? We all know that
                    people change. How could I be sure you would not?’
                It was in vain I pleaded the worth of a man's word and the security lying in a
                    steadfast nature. I had never yet proved false to an affection nor a principle;
                    and speculative opinions have nothing to do with practical honour nor living
                    conduct. Because I thought marriage a civil contract and not a divine
                    ordinance—because I would give relief to those who had made a mistaken
                    choice—that did not imply I would change in my love for her, nor fail in my
                    fidelity. Was no reliance to be placed on the proof afforded by the past? Was
                    the whole run and set of a character valueless as evidence?
                She shook her head when I spoke to her like this.
                ‘The only safeguard of conduct is religious principle,’ she said. ‘Outside belief
                    in God and His commands there is no security—no sacredness!’
                
                We soon ceased to discuss the question of the sacramental or experimental
                    character of marriage. It was too painful for her to hear; and I understood her
                    sensitiveness. And I loved her for it; as I loved all that was hers, how much
                    soever opposed to myself, because of the saintly purity and the saintly
                    constancy with which she held to her convictions. If I could have changed her
                    and made her a Freethinker, like myself, I would. As I could not, I loved her
                    for what she was. But this marriage matter was the colouring thread that ran
                    through the whole web of our mourning. And though after a time we left off open
                    controversy, as being worse than useless, I knew what she felt; and she knew
                    that I had not changed. She held fast by her points of faith and I by mine of
                    denial; and there was no middle term where we could meet.
                Year after year we went on in the old ways, and
                    time brought us no nearer to a settlement than we were at the beginning. She did
                    not give me up. She had always the pious believer's faith in the power of God to
                    work a miracle in my behalf, and in His goodness to turn my soul from the
                    darkness to the light. I, on my side, prayed earnestly for better guidance. I
                    besought the Power who over-shadowed and influenced all life to be shown my
                    wrong, if I were in the wrong; to be convinced of error if I were wandering and
                    astray. Passionate, extreme, thorough, I would have submitted to any public
                    humiliation had I been convinced of the truth, as Cordelia saw it, and of my own
                    error, as she believed it. No recantation would have been too complete—no
                    penitent reconciliation to God too humble. I would have devoted my life to the
                    service of the Church I had slandered. And had it been the Mother's will, and
                    Cordelia's, I would have foregone all personal
                    benefit from my conversion, and would have gone into a monastery to expiate my
                    former sins instead of to the marriage altar to profit by my present grace.
                But no light, if light it were, came to me. The whole thing still continued to be
                    a mass of beautiful but unreal superstition. And the idea that the Great
                    Incommunicable Spirit beyond and above all sense had ever been localized and
                    individualized was more and more to me the outcome of that ignorance which made
                    the earth the cosmic centre—the outcome of that vanity which supposes man to be
                    the supreme object of divine thought and care.
                But we loved each other. Deeper than all faiths, stronger than all doubts, lay
                    that deathless love of which irreconcilable principle was just strong enough to
                    prevent the translation into deeds. It was not able to kill the spirit! Oh!
                    those long years of ever-increasing denial of
                    those things which it was my life's happiness to affirm!—of ever-decreasing
                    trust in the power of love to bridge over the gulf dividing us! It was like a
                    long death-agony, where Hope and Fear stand by the watcher, now the one chanting
                    a hymn with a smile, now the other wailing a threnody with a sob.
                And the whole thing was such a contradiction; and yet it was inevitable! The
                    ardent desire to benefit humanity, which is the very tap-root of my moral
                    nature, urged me to combat everywhere the organized mental tyranny and debasing
                    superstitious ignorance of the Church of Rome—that deadliest enemy to human
                    progress which the modern world possesses. Yet the person for whom I would have
                    died—for whose good I myself would have gone down into infamy—was a Roman
                    Catholic, and from her faith drew half her moral beauty. From that very religion
                    which I would have 
                        de-
                        destroyed
                     stroyed, she got that supreme
                    spiritual loveliness which bent me to worship her as something beyond the normal
                    heights of humanity. She was like some faultless masterpiece turned out by
                    misshapen workmen;—for never on earth lived a purer soul, a more conscientious,
                    high-principled, faithful nature. If her land of departed souls be peopled with
                    such as she, purgatory is an unnecessary halting-place, and hell would
                    emphatically be empty!
                For her dear sake, to this hour I have a strange feeling of tenderness for the
                    Roman Catholic ritual—for all who worship in sincerity as she worshipped, love
                    what she loved and believe in those to whom she prayed. The sweet faint
                    lingering scent of incense in the churches recalls her pure and lovely image to
                    my mind as clearly as when I saw her cross herself as she knelt, watching her in
                    her prayers, and loving her all the more for the faith I could not share. And I am not ashamed to confess that more than
                    once in these later years, for all that has come and gone between now and then,
                    I have wept like a child when I have heard the mass and seen the symbol which
                    stood between me and this well-named ‘servant of Christ.’ Hating the system with
                    the whole force of my intellect, I love the worship with that idealization of
                    sentiment which is so pathetic in its impotence to influence the conduct.
                My love for that best and holiest of women was like one of those ground-springs
                    which are too deep to stop, yet are impossible to utilize; but they always keep
                    that one spot green where forget-me-nots grow and summer roses fall. I loved her
                    as a man loves when life and death meet in mingled passion and despair—with
                    heart and soul and adoration—with the kiss that was heaven and the tears that
                    were torture—with all that I had of poetry, of sentiment, of aspiration, of desire—with infinite yearning, with boundless
                    reverence, with tenderness, with devotion, with trust and with faith—with all
                    that is human LOVE in its fullest sense. But the
                    Crucified Christ stood between us with the force of Death; and the Church was
                    the angel with the drawn sword who drove us forth from Paradise. And so it must
                    be, while I could not worship nor she deny.
                Thus the thing continued for many weary years, and at the end of all our
                    struggles and all our agony, we were just where we were on the first night when
                    we had met and recognised our mutual fitness to our mutual sorrow! Only this
                    difference was between now and then—Hope lay like a dead child between us, and
                    youth had faded from both.
                We still saw each other at intervals. Cordelia had taken the habit of calling me
                    brother, and wished that I should call her sister. Sister Cordelia! No living
                        human sound has in it the music of this to
                    me! Sister Cordelia—the heart of all beauty, the soul of all grace! The name
                    seemed to keep us together in the invisible bond which we could neither break
                    nor draw closer. And by this time society had accepted our relations as
                    fraternal, and had ceased to busy itself about our future.
                One day we were walking in the fields together. It was the early summer, or
                    rather the late spring-time—that time when love has yet in it the eager stretch
                    of future hope, and when nature reminds one of nothing so much as a bridal and a
                    blush. How well I remember that day—the unstained blue sky; the dazzlingly white
                    cumulus clouds hanging like milky fleeces in the upper air; the interpenetrating
                    sense of freshness, of joy, of life that laughed, of love that had won,
                    everywhere in creation save with her and me! And yet we were together. And to
                    me, with my passionate temperament, the
                    presence of the beloved and the joy of the moment were so much!
                The fields were full of flowers—here silvered with daisies; there golden with
                    buttercups and paler cowslips; and here again delicately shaded with the pale
                    purple of the cuckoo flower. The air was full of subtle scents from root and
                    blade and leaf and flower; from the teeming earth and the freshening water; from
                    invisible substances brought from afar, and mixing their unknown sweetness with
                    those we know at home. It was full of yet more subtle music from the thousand
                    unseen creatures which hummed and quivered and sang their songs to each other in
                    words we could not understand, but the theme of which we knew by the
                    interpretation of our own hearts. A lark was soaring overhead, and singing as it
                    soared; birds all along the hedgerows and from the trees were calling to their
                    mates; a couple of white butterflies were fluttering above our heads—everywhere it was the same—happiness and
                    love—life, happiness and love!
                We sat down on a bank under the lee of a hedge; and close to the gate. I took
                    from my pocket Moore's ‘Lalla Rookh’ and began to read aloud the ‘Fire
                    Worshipper.’ She was fond of that poem, representing as it did both her faith
                    and her country. And at all times she liked my reading to her. When I came to
                    those lines in the first canto, beginning: ‘Hadst thou been born a Persian
                    maid,’ something as real as a touch seemed to pass between us, and more than the
                    spoken words had been said. My voice broke and I stopped, while she looked into
                    my eyes with an expression in her own that was at once a prayer and a
                    confession, an entreaty and a lament; then suddenly she turned her face to my
                    shoulder and burst into tears.
                ‘Why will you not come to me?’ she sobbed. ‘How
                    can you still deny Christ and crucify Him afresh? How can you reject me—who love
                    you so tenderly?’
                I cannot relate that scene; as little could I catalogue the death-throes of my
                    favourite child. It was the last despairing effort to win me over that she made,
                    the last time I had to endure the rack I had voluntarily prepared for myself.
                    She was as little near to yielding to my prayer to marry me, despite all, as was
                    ever Saint Agatha near to denying her Lord. And I could not forswear my truth,
                    nor join in the ranks of those who worshipped idols and cherished fables as
                    living facts.
                We stood together and watched the last of all things fade away between us. And
                    Death came up where Love had been, and settled down on our hearts for ever. The
                    long agony of years culminated in one supreme hour of anguish; and when the
                    evening came, all was over. I knew no more
                    than that she had left me—that she had gone with Father Nolan, who had seemed to
                    come out of space to where we sat, and who had spoken to her words I scarcely
                    understood, but words which she obeyed and which severed us for all time and
                    eternity.
                When I came back to life and the things of the earth and the senses, I was alone.
                    The sky was overcast; the night had come; the hoarse cry of the goatsucker
                    vibrated in the mournful air; an owl hooted from the wall; and the passing bell
                    told of the death hour of some poor soul cut off from all its love. Christ and
                    the Church were victorious; and there were only two desolate hearts the more,
                    and one ruined life, to add to the count of the martyrs made by Faith and
                    Denial.
                But, set on a pedestal unattainable by any other stands the image of this sacred
                    woman in my heart. Whatever of grace and glory
                    others have, she had more. Perfect in purity, in goodness, with a conscience
                    that was as firm as adamant and crystal clear; perfect in loyalty to her creed
                    and in loyalty to love, irreconcilable as these were; full of the majesty of
                    moral beauty, of the splendour of human virtue—she is unique and apart from all
                    I have ever known. She is the enduring loss and the unhealed sorrow of my life;
                    and when I die, her name will be the last on my lips as it is the first in my
                    heart. Whatever loves I had before, or have had since, lie in her shadow. The
                    aureole round her memory eclipses their noonday brightness. Were she to call to
                    me to go to her, I would stride over the grave of my fortune and my fair fame,
                    and I would go. Were she to hold out her hand to me, I would step down the
                    golden stair into the abyss to take it. And I lost her for an idea—for an
                    unprovable belief and an undemonstrable
                    negation. I lost her because I could not lie, nor could she. But if I saw the
                    print of her foot in the sand to-day, I would kiss the mark, and the bitter dust
                    would be like rose-leaves on my mouth.
                Life was never the same to me after this. Something had gone from me which could
                    never be replaced. I felt like one who has received some unseen and irreparable
                    hurt which maims, but does not kill. I was not visibly disabled, but living was
                    more difficult. My affections had lost their centre and I was unfocussed
                    everywhere. I had to live without personal hope or love in my life, and with
                    only work, humanity, and thought to fill up the void. It was a colourless kind
                    of thing for one like myself, strong, impassioned, fully vitalized, unable to
                    exist under the blight of passive melancholy, whose impatience of gloom made it
                    necessary to kill his sorrow or be killed by it. But it had to be borne; and
                        I did what I could for the sake of
                    self-respect, and to vindicate the claim of character and philosophy to give the
                    power of endurance. For I have always said that resignation to the inevitable is
                    a question of natural strength and not of religious principle. The endless
                    despair and passionate insubmission of many sincerely pious Christians show that
                    they do not ‘forgive God’ for having afflicted them; while those who have no
                    belief in the direct and deliberate will of an All-good Father, take their
                    courage in both hands and bravely bear that cross which no tears can remove.
                For myself, I buried my sorrow out of sight, and flung myself more and more into
                    active life. Cordelia was dead to me, but humanity was left alive, and still
                    suffered. There was so much to be done for the world! And after all, what were
                    my individual sorrows compared with those of the race? What we now call
                        altruism was then as much a fact under
                    another name. And altruism is integral to my nature, born as it is of passionate
                    sensation and keen imagination, by which I suffer in my own person and
                    understand that others should feel as I have done.
                ‘Your vice of pity,’ said old Madame Mohl one day to me, reprovingly.
                For all that it has cost me I would rather have this vice than the alternative
                    virtue of indifference.
                Meanwhile, great changes had taken place in the old home. All my sisters were
                    married, and my brother Edwin was also married. His wife was somewhat older than
                    he and well endowed. She was almost maternally fond of him; and in every way his
                    lines had fallen in pleasant places. Hence he was off my mind, and I had neither
                    duties nor regrets on his account.
                My father was dead; and the three old homes had passed into the unsympathetic hands of strangers. Mr. Grahame too was dead,
                    and the new incumbent of St. Mark's belonged to the most exaggerated section of
                    the Evangelical school. He was simply ‘old priest writ large,’ who had narrowed
                    the universe down to his own microscopic point. He was the sworn enemy of
                    science, literary breadth of view, freedom of speculative opinion, change in any
                    direction; and the grossest superstitions of Rome—to him the Scarlet Woman of
                    the Apocalypse—were run hard by his own.
                Thus my relations with Eden were broken at the root, and I never now went down
                    among the mountains which had seen my youthful struggles and my boyish despair,
                    the first waking of my mind to doubt and my first experience of love and
                    loss.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER VIII.
                MY personal happiness in its fullest sense was lost for ever. What these
                    late years had taken from me could never be regained; and the hope of my
                    manhood, like the certainties of my youth, had gone down into the grave of those
                    dead illusions which we bury one by one as we pass along the highway of life. I
                    should never now be the conqueror of fate and the controller of circumstance, as
                    I once used to believe—happy, successful, triumphant, by the very force of my
                    will—the very vitality of my courage. Like the rest, I must bear the cross rather than wear the crown; and no more than
                    Prometheus could I free myself from the vulture at my heart. But, if joy had
                    gone from me, I could still be faithful to the right as I had made it for
                    myself; and I could always be strong.
                And I could never become one of those anæmic worshippers of sorrow who are
                    content to mope away their lives in sad-eyed dreams of ‘what might have been,
                    had things been different.’ My life must ever be active and objective—before me,
                    not behind. To lie down by the open grave of our dead hopes seems to me both
                    cowardly and insane; for the forces which are not utilized become poisonous and
                    destructive.
                Like all of my character and temperament, at once resentful and compassionate, I
                    was both a philanthropist and a fighter. I would have bound up the wounds with
                    the Samaritan, but I would have broken the heads of the Priest and the Levite.
                        And the one action would have been as
                    justifiable as the other. It has taken many years of much chastening to get this
                    fighting blood toned down to moderation, and to dissolve my strong conceptions
                    of the absolute into a more tolerant and a wider acceptance of the relative.
                But in my youth and early manhood all this passion was in the harmonious ordering
                    of things. Revolt was in the air; and public events had added fuel to the
                    original fire of my temperament, and set the tow of my imagination ablaze. Many
                    facts in living history had seemed to me like modern reproductions of the old
                    time ‘Acta Sanctorum’ of liberty. Thus, while I was yet a boy, Frost had
                    repeated for me the part of Camille Desmoulins, with that Newport gaol for a
                    minor Bastille and Henry Vincent as a translated and anachronistic Hampden. The
                    Rebecca riots had been a righteous Jacquerie; the trial of each leader in
                        those riots had been the ostracism of a
                    true Aristides—the punishment of nobleness because noble; and I firmly believed
                    that Sir James Graham, when he opened Mazzini's letters, was the paid and
                    authorized spy of that House of Hapsburg of which, as of our own Stuarts, no
                    evil was too great to be believed. My old idol, King Dan—the modern Gracchus who
                    had embodied all the praises lavished on Grattan by Byron in the ‘Irish
                    Avatar’—had died, like the worn-out wounded old lion my fancy had depicted him.
                    Broken in health, enfeebled in mind, pitifully repentant of faults which had
                    sprung from the grand and glorious vitality of his nature, he had sighed out his
                    last breath in the bosom of his Mother in Rome; but, if he had gone, Ireland
                    still lived, and her wounds were yet unhealed and bleeding. And when the
                        United Irishman preached its gospel to young Ireland, and Smith
                    O'Brien, Meagher and Mitchell came to the
                    front like new Emmetts and Fitzgeralds—I too contributed my small brick to the
                    building of the temple, and felt twice the man I was before.
                I had seen the Chartist movement quenched in its original form; but the Corn Law
                    League and the Reform Bill had already given us more solid gains than my poor
                    friends and brothers could have granted had they even had their will. I had seen
                    the French Republic proclaimed, and I had believed in the formula, ‘Liberté,
                    Egalité, Fraternité,’ as a new gospel against which the gates of hell itself
                    would not prevail; and I had seen the murdered corpse of this fair hope lying
                    beneath the heel of Louis Napoleon, and the empire established on the basis of
                    perjury and murder. I had witnessed the trial of Orsini, noted the care he took
                    of his long white finely shaped hands—even there in the dock—and I had thought, between the two it was a pity this
                    one had been the victim! So that the ‘Sturm und Drang’ period of my own life had
                    been in a manner repeated, as well as justified, by public events; and, as I
                    say, revolt and excitement had been in the air all round.
                Now things were modifying; and my own thoughts, like politics, were taking a new
                    and more practical shape.
                The miserable condition of the poor; the injustice of existing arrangements, both
                    in the tenure of the land and in the relations between labour and capital; the
                    need of ‘levelling up’—of inculcating greater self-respect among the masses by
                    improved education, by increased political responsibilities, by better material
                    conditions in food and dwelling—these were the subjects which now sat nearest to
                    my heart. They made the more mature phase into which had passed that crude
                    academic ideal of Liberty with sword and
                    banner, wild hair and floating plumes, crying, ‘Death to the Tyrants!’ on the
                    ramparts, and shouting the ‘Song of the Greeks’ to the winds, which had been my
                    dream in the boyish days of romance. This kind of thing had gone for ever; and I
                    had come to the knowledge that reforms, to be lasting, must be legal, and that
                    true liberty comes by the slower process of growth and gradual fitness, rather
                    than by the sudden leap into supreme power of men unused to responsibilities and
                    incapable of self-government. To be sure, armed revolution has been, and still
                    is, necessary where supreme power is backed by the army, where abuses are
                    maintained by the law and peaceable reforms are impossible. Then there is
                    nothing for it but a hand-to-hand fight for the freedom of the many against the
                    tyranny of the few; and the sacred right of insurrection cannot be proclaimed
                    too loudly nor too loyally upheld. But under a
                    constitutional government, where liberty of speech, association and remonstrance
                    is already won, armed rebellion is unnecessary; and bit by bit reform, so
                    loftily despised by heady youth, manhood learns to respect as the only
                    revolutionizing method fit for rational people.
                ‘Ohne Hast, ohne Rast’ is the best motto for the political reformer. But there
                    must be that ‘ohne Rast;’ and the nuisance to be carted away must not be left to
                    obstruct the highroad.
                Thus, making a wide leap onward, the Education Bill was a better measure than
                    would have been the Chartist demand for the payment of members, whereby working
                    men, who did not know their real needs nor the best way of supplying them, might
                    sit in the House and put back their own cause by ignorance and unpracticality.
                    And again, limitation of a proprietor's power over the land, and the
                        enforcement of the doctrine of duties as a
                    substitute for that of rights—so that he shall not be able to evict whole
                    villages at his pleasure, nor to convert arable land into deer-forests because
                    these let better than fields and farms, and shall be forced to build and
                    maintain labourers' cottages on his estate, at convenient distances from the
                    centres of work; limitation of the acreage to be held by individuals; abolition
                    of plurality in estates as in ecclesiastical holdings—of the law of entail and
                    of the power of willing away property, so that a man shall never more be able to
                    disinherit his wife and children, thus carrying his enmity beyond the grave—all
                    these would be wiser as first steps and thin edges, than sudden nationalization,
                    even with so many years' purchase as the solatium. And these things have to
                    come. They too, are in the air; as is limitation of the powers and a change in
                    the processes of the House of Lords —to be
                    obtained peaceably but inexorably.
                Violence, the ugly side of reaction against wrong, is the enemy which we Liberals
                    and iconoclasts have to contend with in ourselves. It has already done as much
                    to retard the birth-hour of true liberty as have both Russia and Rome. Where the
                    gospel of the knife, of dynamite, of the guillotine is preached, there liberty
                    loses, and by just so much wrong and oppression gain. Threats are of no use
                    unless they can be carried out; and the attack which does not frighten and
                    subdue irritates instead. The salvation of society will come only from that kind
                    of philosophic and scientific Radicalism which sets itself to mend the evil of
                    things, not by cataclysms and coups-d'état, but by the gradual education of
                    public opinion, by orderly organizations, by the exposition of causes, keeping
                    free of personal rancour, and by the steady and sustained pressure of argument, rather than by appeals to the passions or
                    even the emotions of the multitude.
                This would have been the work of the Positivists, had Dr. Congreve's social
                    formula been wider and freer. He missed a noble opportunity, by which, however,
                    the other section has profited. Yet, in spite of the perfect truth in part of
                    the teaching of this other section—in spite of all Frederic Harrison's eloquence
                    and glorious humanity—the world refuses to go over. Positivism, as given in the
                    beginning, was too truly ‘Catholicism without Christianity’—that is, mental
                    subjection without spiritual consolation; arrested development without the
                    beauty, the poetry, the finer fancies by which the elder sister gratifies the
                    dwarfed intelligence of those for whom the last word has been said, the final
                    revelation given, the finishing touch laid. Scientific reform— philosophic democracy—are what the world wants;
                    remembering that science includes the element of growth and the possibility of
                    mutation, and that life is perpetual flux and interchange of force and form.
                Anything that made for liberty was sure of my poor support. I sympathized with
                    all the movements afloat, and knew something of them all as they rose and swam,
                    then sank and were lost in the depths of completed things. The Christian
                    Socialists, with their brave leader, Parson Lot, at their head, spinning golden
                    webs which drifted away into nothingness, fastened as they were to nothing more
                    solid than the mere poetry of Christianity—the Republican formula canonized:—The
                    Secularists whose very name frightened respectable folk, though they were so dry
                    and formal and severely moral, and whose blameless chief stood as a kind of
                    diabolic Demiurge who would create a Pandemonium where had been an Eden, though now he is looked on as a
                    fossilized kind of Conservative by his successors and overtakers:—The dreamy and
                    unpractical Republicans, whose ‘organ’ was printed down among the mountains,
                    with no public to buy it when done, and with only the ruin of the enthusiast who
                    manipulated the whole matter as the net result:—The eloquent, if not quite
                    satisfactory, Unitarian who preached on Bentham and the Holy Spirit—poetry
                    to-day, and free-trade to-morrow—and who, utilitarian from head to heel, ‘would
                    bless a river for its beauty, and bid it turn a mill’:—Kossuth, Mazzini,
                    Garibaldi, Victor Hugo—the men who had written words which burned the hearts of
                    those who read them, and the men who had fought behind the barricades as their
                    practical commentary thereon:—The French who had escaped Cayenne, and who cursed
                    the Man of December:—The Russian, who had escaped Siberia, and who cursed the Czar:—The Hungarians and Poles, the
                    Lombards and Venetians, who had put Spielberg and I Piombi behind them, and who
                    swore vengeance to the House of Hapsburg, like so many Archangel Michaels
                    against Satan:—The Italians who had fled from the Neapolitan dungeons and the
                    Papal prisons:—The new Luther and the modern Tell:—The unsuccessful conspirators
                    of all nations—I knew them all. And I believed in some, while I confess I
                    gravely doubted the sincerity of others.
                For though exile was a bad business, say for those Sicilian gentlemen and
                    noblemen who sacrificed place and fortune for the rational liberties of their
                    country, it was a means of living, like any other, for those shady patriots who
                    were less martyrs than adventurers, and whose politics were a profession rather
                    than a principle. And even among the best of the sincere—always excepting such
                    men as the Scalias and their friends—there was
                    a notable absence of good sense and workable methods, and a great deal of
                    childish noise and bluster.
                I did my best, however;—myself not being exactly qualified to sit in the seat of
                    the judge condemning exaggeration; and I gave both my strength and my substance
                    to the cause of freedom in general. I was still hopeful enough to believe that
                    we were on the threshold of a new development, at the fork of a new departure.
                    The echo of the high hopes with which we, the young men of that time, had
                    greeted the establishment of the first International Exhibition, that precursor
                    of universal peace, still lingered in the air, and turned to noble music every
                    little scrannel pipe that squeaked. We looked to all four corners of the earth
                    for deliverance from the social and economic ills which oppressed our poorer
                    brethren; and our Saviours of Society were as many as there were ingenious men
                    to draw out a 
                        pro-
                        programme
                     gramme and bold ones to take the
                    initiative.
                Our belief was, in a sense, omnivorous, and adapted all that came as food.
                    Schemes for the regeneration of the world strewed the ground like golden dust,
                    and Vidocq himself could not have gathered up all the ends which formed the
                    tangled skein of our hopes. But I can never be sufficiently grateful for the
                    small grain of caution, which lies like a two-pennyworth of common-sense in the
                    midst of the intolerable quantity of impulse with which I am handicapped, that I
                    forebore to join any association, and refused to become a member of any of the
                    secret societies by which I was surrounded and solicited.
                What a crowd of memories surge around me as I write! Kossuth's triumphal entry
                    into London, matched for enthusiasm only by that of Garibaldi's still grander
                    apotheosis some years after:—The assault on
                    Haynau by the sturdy brewers who resented the presence among them of the
                    woman-flogger:—and our own piano-wires in Jamaica vibrating in the near
                    distance! That crowded meeting at St. Martin's Hall, where Kossuth and Mazzini
                    sat on the platform—the one so showy, so brilliant, so like the hero of romance,
                    the other shy, reserved, silent, intense—the one phosphorescent, the other
                    hidden fire:—The establishment of the Whittington Club, which was to be the
                    beginning of all social good and the grand refining influence and ‘leveller up’
                    of the ‘second set,’ where ladies were to dance with shopmen, and gentlemen were
                    to squire, but not flirt with shopwomen:—The great lights of the literary world,
                    Macaulay, Carlyle, Ruskin, Grote, Tennyson, Mills, the Brownings—in his own
                    degree, Arthur Helps—George Henry Lewes, Miss Martineau, ‘Jane Eyre’ and Mrs.
                    Gaskell, together with Thackeray and
                    Dickens:—all are heaped up in my mind without order or chronology; and I could
                    not without some trouble lay these memories in line nor arrange them in their
                    sequence. I only remember the seething time that it all was, and the hope which
                    was born into the world, to be extinguished by fear—even as that divine child,
                    lying in a blaze of light in the cradle, was killed by the frightened nurse as a
                    thing of horror, not cherished as a gift of glory.
                Other things come before me as I write. I remember the evening when news of the
                    Czar's death flashed into London. To me it was the forerunner of peace and the
                    redemption of thousands of lives through the loss of one. Therefore it was a
                    thing rightfully welcome to England. Yet Nicholas was a man of whom his worst
                    enemies must speak with respect for his person, how much soever they may hate
                    the system of which he was the crowning
                    symbol. I was in a state of boiling excitement and could not remain at home, but
                    dashed out in a hansom, I did not care where. I remember driving round Regent's
                    Park in the aimless way of simple emotion trying to work itself off; and then I
                    went to the house of some pleasant friends, with whom I was accustomed to spend
                    many of my evenings. I thought they would sympathize with my exultation, and
                    share in my rejoicing over the probable speedy settlement of the war; and I
                    bounded up the stairs, two steps at a time, bursting into the room like a
                    whirlwind raised by laughter.
                I found the wife pale and in tears; the young people sitting about in mute,
                    desponding, half-terrified distress; the husband pacing the room in the violent
                    agonies of despair. What did it all mean? I was aghast, and not the less so when
                    the sweet wife sobbed out:
                
                ‘We are ruined, Crishna! My dear, we are absolutely and eternally ruined!’
                Mr. Smith was on the Stock Exchange. He had speculated for a fall; and the sudden
                    death of the Czar had sent all investments up like so many balloons, and swept
                    away his last penny.
                This was the first time that I had come face to face with the sorrow of private
                    loss through public gain; and it made an indelible impression on me. Natural as
                    was this despair of the ruined individual, in face of the general and national
                    good it seemed to me so strangely unpatriotic, so fatally egotistic!
                Another strange experience, but before this time, was my introduction to the
                    Queen's Bench Prison. Some friends had got into trouble and were there—the
                    husband as the debtor, the wife as the nurse, admitted on a doctor's
                    certificate. We had a good time, as the Americans say, in that meagrely 
                        fur-
                        furnished
                     nished dingy room, where the height
                    of good company assembled. That handsome Irish notability—I wonder if he
                    remembers those charming little early suppers, where the Sicilian dressed the
                    macaroni, the Frenchman mixed the salad, the nurse-wife supplied the Attic salt,
                    and where we were all as gay as larks?
                Among the debtors of that time was a man who had taken his wife's unsecured
                    fortune and lavished it on the famous Phryne of the day. He drifted into the
                    Queen's Bench as the moral of his fable; and his wife, with her little child,
                    came daily to see and comfort him. I always thought this one of the finest
                    instances of womanly forgiveness I had ever met with; and I very much question
                    whether this limp-backed Anthony were worthy of so much consideration from his
                    patient Octavia.
                I used to take my caged friends sauces and groceries, and was stopped at the
                        gate, while the turnkeys drew the corks of
                    the Lazenbys and Burgesses, to make sure that nothing less innocent than Harvey
                    or ketchup was in the bottles. We sat on the bed and boxes at our symposia,
                    chairs being deficient; and some of the merriest and wittiest hours of my life
                    were spent in that queer little room, ‘10 in 12,’ as it was numbered. Perhaps it
                    was somewhat too much of a ‘danse Macabre’; and the ebullient gaiety of all
                    concerned might have had in it a certain false ring, as of those who wished to
                    forget and endeavoured to hide.
                But we were all too well-bred to hint at the skeleton; and indeed some of us did
                    not see the grinning skull beneath the roses. For the world is so blind!—and of
                    all qualities extant, perspicuity is the rarest. So we all went with pretty
                    constant fidelity to visit the Government debtor and his nurse-wife; and gaiety
                    turned into a play what had been assigned as a penance, till the beneficent hand of patronage did its work, and the
                    authorities came to a compromise which opened the cage-door and set the captives
                    free.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER IX.
                I HAVE not yet spoken of Morton Cavanagh, for all that he had been for a
                    long time my best and dearest friend. I became acquainted with him during the
                    second year of my life in London, and we made friends on the spot. There was
                    just this little strangeness in our sudden friendship, in that it was made as it
                    were in spite of ourselves. We had been mutually prejudiced against each other
                    by excessive praise. His friends had vaunted him to me so extravagantly that I
                    had made myself sure he was nothing but an overrated and conceited puppy—a 
                        jack-
                        jackdaw
                     daw pranked in peacock's feathers,
                    and by no means the phœnix they had painted him. He on his side had come to an
                    analogous conclusion about me. I was a pedant, a bookworm, a dusty, fusty,
                    old-young prig; and my diligence was a red rag to him as violent and aggressive
                    as was his brilliancy to me.
                Hence, when we met, we met as secret enemies determined to hate each other to the
                    death; and when we parted, we parted as mutual friends who knew that they would
                    love each other for life. It was an odd little drama; but all life is full of
                    these queer contradictions of intent and deed.
                Cavanagh was one of the handsomest young fellows I have ever seen. He was bright,
                    energetic, gallant; a creature whom all women loved, to whom all men wished
                    well, and of whom there were as many hopes as there are stars in the sky. And he
                    seemed certain to justify the brilliant 
                        pro-
                        prophecies
                     phecies made in his favour. He had
                    the ball at his foot, and the world's oyster was already half opened. He was an
                    artist, and, so far as he had gone, a successful one. He had taken the Gold
                    Medal, been publicly praised by Sir Charles Eastlake, and he had sold his first
                    exhibited picture. All that was wanting now was diligence in work and industry
                    in self-improvement.
                For the first few years his sun shone in a cloudless sky. While I was making but
                    a very moderate income by hard work, Cavanagh was coining money by labour as
                    light as play. His gains were princely, all things considered; and he ought to
                    have saved considerably. But no matter what he earned, he kept nothing.
                    Generous, careless, pleasure-loving, extravagant, he had every quality which
                    leads to expenditure and the melting-pot; and with all his gains he never had
                    sixpence before him. Or, if he had, it was taken from him by 
                        some-
                        someone
                     one who said he wanted it more than
                    did he himself. Cavanagh had not yet learned how to refuse. ‘No’ was the hardest
                    word in the language to him, and he would have borne any burden on his own
                    shoulders rather than have given pain to another. As for his openhandedness, it
                    did not matter, he used to say with a laugh. He had a reserve fund where that
                    came from, and his bank was not broken. While he had health and strength he
                    would float on the top of the waves; when he felt himself beginning to sink it
                    would then be time enough to put together a raft and hang on to a buoy.
                Although we were more like brothers than merely friends, Cavanagh and I had
                    little mental life in common. He did not care a straw for politics; social
                    questions were dry chaff to him; he never troubled his head about religion. He
                    went to church when he visited his people in the country, because it was the
                    proper thing to do and they would have been
                    hurt had he not gone; but he dropped the habit in London. Not because he did not
                    believe what he heard from reading-desk or pulpit; but because it took up his
                    time and bored him. He liked the sunshine and long rambles in the woods and
                    fields and by the sea-shore better than the dim religious light; and, if
                    remonstrated with, he used to say that Nature was his temple, and a lark singing
                    in the sky was a more devout choir than one made up of any number of nice little
                    boys in nice white stoles, singing antiphonies through their noses. But what was
                    wanting in mental sympathy of the deepest kind was filled in by sympathy of a
                    more generalized sort. We both loved art and nature, music, poetry and beauty.
                    We both loathed vulgarity, and never confounded unconventionality with
                    coarseness nor freedom with vice. And we both profited by the devotion,
                    sincerity and affectionateness which 
                        inter-
                        interpenetrated
                     penetrated and coloured the
                    character of each.
                For my own part, I had reason enough to both love and admire Morton Cavanagh. He
                    was a charming companion; always ready to enjoy; bright, good-humoured; at once
                    receptive and expansive, playful and sincere. He was entirely natural too—one of
                    the least artificial or self-conscious of men. He was conscious enough of the
                    splendour of life and of his own divine enjoyment therein—conscious of power and
                    pleasure, of what he could do and what he could feel—but he was not conscious of
                    his outer self. He scarcely knew that he was handsome—he, who was as beautiful
                    as Antinous!—and he never calculated on the effect of his personality on others.
                    Perfectly truthful, he did not offend the most susceptible, because what he said
                    was said without either callousness or insolence. It was said simply because
                        such and such things were. Is it an
                    offence to call the hedge wound-wort fetid? or flattery to say that the rose is
                    sweet? This truthfulness was part of Cavanagh's very being. Subterfuge, lying,
                    hypocrisy, all false seeming everywhere, were as far from him as was cruelty or
                    vulgarity; and part of his very manliness was in his sincerity.
                In person he was tall, slender, long-limbed. He had dark hair and dark eyes; his
                    skin was dead white, and his whole appearance was un-English. But his beauty was
                    neither French nor Italian, nor yet Spanish, nor again that of any nation with
                    which I am acquainted. It was sui generis. He himself used to declare that he
                    was half a Red Indian, because descended through his mother from the hapless
                    Queen Pocohontas; and he certainly had a curiously long swift stride, and bore
                    himself with a certain savage ease and grace as well as dignity and freedom,
                    which justified his 
                        be-
                        belief
                     lief. Only, one learns to be
                    somewhat sceptical of these descendants of Pocohontas; they are a little too
                    numerous. Be that, however, as it may, I have never seen anyone like
                    Cavanagh—never one with so much native kingliness of manner mingled with the
                    gallant gay good-humour of an artist and a Bohemian. For he was a Bohemian to
                    his finger-tips—but not of the vicious type.
                Such as he was, he was supreme in beauty, in talent, in nobleness, in brilliancy
                    and power; and not the proudest of us all felt that he doffed his cap too low,
                    or gave up his own rightful pretensions, when he made Morton Cavanagh the king
                    of the circle whom all agreed to honour and none could fail to love.
                When I went over to Paris, I naturally lost personal touch of my friend. We
                    corresponded, of course; but letters are poor substitutes for daily intercourse,
                    and when lives are apart interests diverge. Then there comes of necessity a certain mildew about the intimacy—not in the
                    affections, but in the mutual knowledge of events. And all events more or less
                    mould and modify the character, until it finally sets in its inalterable shape;
                    when it fossilizes and grows no more.
                One day while I was in Paris I received a letter from Cavanagh telling me
                    abruptly that he was married. He had married, he said, the daughter of a
                    lodging-house keeper down at some place in Cornwall—I think it was Bude or
                    Boscastle—where he had been spending the summer. He made no attempt to conceal
                    the real position of his wife, nor to gild the homely russet of her
                    circumstances. She was simply plain Mary, the daughter of a woman who took in
                    lodgers for the summer season in a simple little Cornish village. But she was a
                    good girl, he said, and as beautiful as an artist's wife should be. He was as
                    happy as a king, he went on to say, and he
                    wanted only his dear Chris—his fidus Achates—to be as happy as an emperor.
                It was a letter written in the wildest, maddest strain; and I was glad that he
                    was so content. As for a lodging-house keeper's daughter—well! the name does not
                    go for much; for there are daughters and daughters, as well as there are
                    lodging-house keepers and lodging-house keepers. We sometimes find
                    irreproachable ladies of good education and small means who pay their rent by
                    letting their rooms. There is nothing necessarily degrading in this. A woman
                    left poorly provided for, and with children to bring up, must do something to
                    stretch that narrow margin. Why not this as well as anything else? Mary's mother
                    was surely a lady of this kind; and Mary herself was none the worse for the fact
                    that the drawing-rooms had to pay the rent, and that a six months' letting had
                    to secure a twelvemonths' tenement. She must
                    be refined and well brought up. Morton Cavanagh could not have married anything
                    else than a real, true, genuine, unapocryphal gentlewoman. With his fastidious
                    tastes, how could he do otherwise? The only thing to disturb me in the matter
                    was that he had not told me of his engagement, and that he had sprung his
                    marriage on me so unexpectedly. But I loved my friend and respected freedom of
                    action too much to allow this to rankle in my mind; and I made no
                    stumbling-block where Cavanagh had placed none.
                When I returned from Paris, Cavanagh came to meet me at the station. I saw him
                    striding up the platform with his old swift silent step, his handsome face
                    alight with pleasure, his bright eyes shining in the gas-light as in an instant
                    he had, as he said, ‘spotted’ me. But when I stood face to face with him, at a
                    glance I saw a certain change. I could not
                    explain it. I could not say where it was, nor in what special tract nor trait.
                    But it was there. It was the same picture varnished with another colour; and the
                    man I met was not the man I had left. He was stouter than when I had seen him
                    last. The clear white of his skin was obscured and yellowed. His jet-black hair
                    was longer, and the gloss had gone out of it. His dress was shabby, and he had a
                    certain self-neglected look—a certain dash of raffishness which he had never had
                    before; and as he spoke and laughed his welcome in more vociferous fashion than
                    had been usual with him, his hot breath was heavy with the deadly reek of
                    gin.
                When I went to his lodgings I understood matters yet more clearly. A tawdry,
                    ill-appointed young woman, with a by no means appetizing infant in her arms—a
                    young woman with a face like a wax-doll, pink and blue and gold, round and mindless, with nothing in it save youth and
                    colour, and from which maternity had already taken the first bloom—a young
                    woman, fine and slipshod, under-bred and pretentious, ill at ease and
                    affected—this was the landlady's daughter whom my friend had made his wife, and
                    vaunted as his fitting match and willing choice.
                My poor Cavanagh! What had blinded him so fatally? Ah! it was the old old story
                    whereby so many young men have been destroyed—a moment's weakness, and a life's
                    sad ruin for expiation! That was the whole thing. When the momentary craze
                    passed, my friend woke to find himself tied for life to an animated log, in no
                    single particular admirable nor worthy of him. I do not mean to say she was
                    actively bad, poor soul!—she was not that; but she was utterly common—not
                    vicious, but unimprovable—not a savage, nor a fiend, nor yet even a mere animal,
                    but just a human doll, mindless, brainless,
                    conscienceless, and worked by curious internal machinery. And she was the
                    millstone round her husband's neck which sank him to the depths.
                The sequel is soon told. Disgusted with himself, and not strong enough to bear
                    with patient dignity the consequences of his own mistake nor yet able to remedy
                    that mistake, Cavanagh took to drink, as many a poor fellow has done before him.
                    Neither the claims of his wife and children nor the religion of honour and
                    self-respect, touched him for more than a few days at a time. He had spasmodic
                    fits of repentance, of self-loathing, of good resolve, of refuge in religion,
                    but to no good. The demon of drink had him too tightly in his grasp; and,
                    struggle as he would, my unhappy friend could never set himself free. His wife
                    did not know how to take him. How should she, poor woman? Such a character and
                    such conditions as his required nicer handling
                    than hers. She bullied him, rated, threatened, and publicly disgraced him yet
                    more than he had already disgraced himself. She made his wretched squalid home
                    more wretched by her not unnatural temper, and more squalid by her bad
                    management and unthrift; and he left both her and it for that bitter
                    forgetfulness which only made everything worse.
                He grew quarrelsome, too, and suspicious; and it was as much as I or any of his
                    friends could do to keep on fair terms with him, so madly determined was he to
                    find us in the wrong. Poor Cavanagh! Having so much to condemn in himself, it
                    would have been such a relief if he could have found that he was not the only
                    one to blame, and that his griefs against others excused his high-treason
                    against himself! But I never let him quarrel with me. And, painful as it was to
                    go to that sordid home and see the wreck of all that I had once so loved,
                    admired and 
                        be-
                        believed
                     lieved in, I used to go
                    continually—to at least ease my own conscience if I could not lighten his.
                Suddenly the whole family disappeared out of London, and I lost sight of them.
                    Cavanagh did not write to me, and his own people refused to give me his address.
                    He had gone like a faded aurora—something that had been so glorious and that now
                    had passed into the mists of night. No one of our common friends knew more than
                    I; and I knew nothing. So it continued for some time, and of this man who had
                    been to me more like a brother than a friend I knew absolutely nothing—not even
                    whether he were living or dead, sane or mad. And I could not find out.
                One night I had a singular dream. I thought that I was walking on the road which
                    led to our old rectory when I stumbled over the body of Morton Cavanagh, lying
                    half-dead and covered with mud by the 
                        way-
                        wayside
                     side. I stopped, lifted him up in my
                    arms, and cleansed him; then I led him home, hand-in-hand, to my father's
                    house—waking as I passed through the garden gate.
                This dream made a deep impression on me, for all that I am absolutely free from
                    superstitious belief in, or reverence for, dreams. Still, it brought my dear
                    friend's image so vividly before me that I could not free my mind from the
                    thought of him. And I resolved at all costs to find out where he was, and in
                    what condition of mind, body and estate.
                After infinite trouble and queer, mole-like workings, I succeeded. I found him in
                    a small four-roomed cottage, in a remote village in Essex—separated from his
                    wife and children, and living with a policeman and his wife. His family had
                    taken him in hand, and, as he was now an absolute pauper, they were masters of
                    the situation. The wife and children were cared for 
                        se-
                        separately
                     parately; and Cavanagh was, as I
                    say, put under the charge of a policeman, with strict orders that he should be
                    kept from drink. He had had delirium tremens more than once, and his brain was
                    by now decidedly deteriorated.
                When I knew his address, I went down that same day. I wanted to take him
                    unawares, and thus to be able to judge more accurately than if he had time to
                    prepare himself.
                I shall never forget the sickening sensation of the moment when I first saw him
                    in that wretched cottage, amid those gross and mean surroundings that made the
                    reality to which his brilliant prospects had declined. Bloated, blotched—his
                    once bright eyes lustreless, bloodshot, staring—his manner a strange mixture of
                    swagger and shame—his manhood degraded—his whole being debased—and yet flashes
                    of his old purer self traversing this deadly darkness—he was more awful than a galvanized corpse, more pitiful
                    than a ghost lingering mournfully among the living. What a change! what an awful
                    fall it was!
                At the first moment he did not seem to recognise me. Then, when he did, he
                    laughed aloud with that false mirth which is more sad than tears. Then he became
                    insolent, and challenged my motives for coming, and threatened me with tragic,
                    half-insane and impotent bluster; and finally he broke down into hysterical
                    weeping, which was a kind of waymark of his degradation. And then he was
                    conquered; and a little of that deep crust of moral dirt was washed away, at
                    least for the moment. I stayed with him the whole day, and we went out for a
                    walk in the fields, where he got to be somewhat more like his old self. We
                    talked of flowers and art, of pictures and people; but his brain was weak, and
                    he could not take in much at a time, and I had to treat him morally and intellectually as the famished
                    are treated physically—with small spells of talk and long lapses of silence. But
                    my presence seemed to soothe if not to strengthen him; and when I left he
                    pressed me to go again, and often, and very soon; saying, as he stood on the
                    platform, the policeman by his side:
                ‘You have done me good, Chris! God bless you, old fellow!’
                I often went after this—generally once a week; but always by appointment. On the
                    days when I was there he was at least safe from degradation; and, indeed, the
                    woman of the house said they reckoned three good days for every visit. He was
                    happy in my company. I recalled him to something of his former brightness, and
                    for sake of the old times he made these pathetic little efforts to rise out of
                    his ruin. But he could not. His brain had deteriorated, his will had been
                        eaten into, and his morale was paralyzed
                    all through. The second day after I had been to see him, he broke out as bad as
                    ever, and so he continued till the day before my next visit was to come off.
                    Then he kept sober, for love's sake and mine.
                How he got the means, or how he managed to get the drink at all, was a mystery.
                    The only sure thing about it was, he did manage, and he did get it. He, once so
                    honourable, so upright, so straight-forward and fearless in the truth, now
                    condescended to the meanest falsehoods and subterfuges for that accursed poison
                    which had ruined him.
                At last the end came. He died quite suddenly, in a moment, as he sat there by the
                    table. And when he died he was a mere shell—a mass of used and worn-out organs,
                    all of which were diseased and destroyed. His death was a release from
                        sorrow, shame, and suffering all round; and I felt that I had gained him again, not lost him,
                    through the purification of the grave. My poor Cavanagh! I never loved any man,
                    save Edwin, so much as I loved him; but my dream was a lying vision:—I did not
                    cleanse nor save him, nor did I lead him home to the Father's House!
                I lost more than Morton Cavanagh about this time—the exact dates and precise
                    order do not signify. My dear old father-friend Walter Savage Landor made the
                    second great blunder of his life, and had to pay the penalty. The law is no
                    respecter of persons; and those who vault unbidden into the seat of justice have
                    to suffer by the sword they have wielded without authority.
                Into the merits of this painful case I will not enter. All I know is the fatal
                    result; and the only defence I make—and to my mind it is all-powerful—is, that
                    age obscures the clearness of the mental vision as it does that of the physical,
                    and that if to those who love much much may be
                    forgiven, those whose vigorous youth has been pure and flawless may hope for the
                    reverent veiling of oblivion when they make an octogenarian mistake.
                Mr. Landor left Bath, and went back to his own family and the old home he once
                    loved so well at beautiful Florence; and I never saw him again.
                But the lives which had been discordant in the years gone by were not likely to
                    be harmonious now; and the love which had been too weak to keep the marriage
                    soldered in the days of youth and maturity could scarcely bring together the
                    jagged edges in old age, when habits had diverged as much as feelings were
                    estranged. After a miserable spell of dissatisfaction, the fire, which had long
                    been burning low, finally burnt itself out, and the old lion lay down never more
                    to rise. There, under the blue sky of Italy, turned to his rest one of the
                        grandest literary figures and noblest men
                    of his generation—one who, though his own worst enemy, was the friend and
                    panegyrist of all things lofty, beautiful and good.
                Too absolutely free from the faintest taint of vulgarity to be appreciated by the
                    vulgar, the inner beauty of Landor's nature was not all men's possession—just as
                    his literary work itself is only for the chosen few, and has never been what is
                    called popular. Sonorous in its melody, but not laboured nor artificial;
                    suggestive, but not sketchy; giving the impression of a reserve-fund unexhausted
                    and of latent force unused, but never of want of finish nor of neglected
                    opportunity; never cloying, but never disappointing, his works are among the
                    best of our literature and language. Nowhere else do we find such a mixture of
                    grace and strength, of tenderness and power, of artistic skill and natural
                    simplicity. The figures which leave his hands
                    are like the purest Greek statues. There is no violence in their tragedy, no
                    affectation in their elegance, no simper in their beauty, no self-consciousness
                    in their grace. Beneath the smooth surface of the marble the living man lies
                    hidden. His Aphrodites wring the salt wave from their dripping tresses, and know
                    that they have risen to life in the upper air and are the beloved of gods and
                    mortals; but they are large and free and noble, and art but reproduces what
                    nature created. His Apollos stand secure in their strength, masters of the
                    Chariot of the Sun, lords of life and beauty, who command and are obeyed. There
                    is no posturizing, no effort; and it is this chastened self-restraint in the
                    midst of his creative activity—this grand command, both over his own thoughts
                    and his material, while infusing life into his dead symbols, which makes Landor
                    so Greek. He sees all beauty and manipulates
                    it to his will; but he never exaggerates and never loses control of his idea. He
                    is the Pygmalion of literature, but his Galateas have always the grave beauty of
                    statues, even while they move and speak. In his intensest love he is free from
                    all trace of licentiousness or coarseness. His Dionysos never changes attributes
                    with Silenus; and his Aphrodite is the Sea-born but never the Pandemos.
                For himself, time has dissolved away all the little surface weaknesses—all the
                    thin crust and pellicles of temper which once grew about the outer man, and has
                    left the pure core like shining gold, free from stain and rust. We judge him by
                    what he did and was—by that Ideal which rises from the grave of the dead and is
                    the true man—truer than was he whose brain was influenced by his blood, and his
                    blood by all material things, and whose best self got sometimes lost, clouded
                    and mislaid, like diamonds fallen from their
                    setting, or pearls discoloured by age.
                Things had happened in my own history which made it impossible for me to go to my
                    dear old friend in the beginning of this last sad drama at Bath. Had I been
                    able, I knew that I should have prevented much that took place. My influence
                    over Mr. Landor had grown of late years. It was that of a respectful son who has
                    on his side the clearer vision and brisker energies of youth, while always
                    absolutely deferential and obedient.
                It was of no use, however, to lament over the inevitable. I could not go to him;
                    and so those miserable Dry Sticks were Faggoted, and the brave life went out
                    without my hand on the one or my love around the other.
                I had one satisfaction in the years that came after. When Forster wrote his mean
                    and unsatisfactory ‘Life of Landor,’ I
                    reviewed it. Two days after the review appeared, I was at a dinner given by dear
                    Shirley Brooks. Lord Houghton was there.
                ‘Have you seen Kirkland's review of “Landor's Life” by Forster?’ he asked Lord
                    Houghton. ‘It is the neatest thing I know. He has taken the skin off him so—so,’
                    he added, making a movement as if tearing strips along his arm.
                Of Forster—‘de mortuis’ notwithstanding—I can never speak in sufficiently strong
                    terms of contempt. He was bully and toady in excelsis; and the way in which he
                    harnessed himself to the chariot of every manifest conqueror who drove into the
                    literary arena was as degrading as it was loathsome. More loathsome still was
                    his want of loyalty to the man, dead, whose feet he had kissed while living.
                    Landor had been his friend and benefactor—had given him the copyright of his
                    works, and had trusted him with that most
                    sacred deposit, the story of his life. Forster repaid his munificence by
                    emphasizing the weaknesses and faintly depicting the grand qualities of his
                    friend from whom no more was to be expected, and whose last act of generosity
                    had been performed. In like manner his ‘Life of Dickens’ is simply a vehicle for
                    his own self-laudation—dwarfing all other friendships to aggrandize and augment
                    his own. All through his career his one ruling principle of action was egotism
                    and self-advantage; and of the finer strains of honour he had not the faintest
                    echo.
                Another notable man died about this time—Dr. Elliotson—with whom also I had been
                    brought into personal relations. I first knew him through the Maconochies, at
                    the time when his income—so they told me—had dropped plumb from twelve to two
                    thousand a year, as the tax levied on his belief in mesmerism. During his
                        last illness my own dear father had been
                    brought up to London, and placed under Dr. Elliotson, whose prophylactic then
                    was tar-water. Nothing, however, did or could arrest the progress of the deadly
                    disease which was eating away my father's life; but the friendship which had
                    then been begun, and had afterwards fallen into abeyance, was renewed in later
                    years, between Dr. Elliotson and myself. He was then a Freethinker, so far as
                    Christianity was concerned—a devout believer in God and the spiritual nature of
                    man but not an orthodox Christian; and we had many long and interesting talks
                    together, after the prescription had been written out and the state of the dear
                    patient upstairs discussed between us in the room below. Years passed after my
                    father's death before I met my friend again. When I did, he was old, broken,
                    penniless and out of practice. A friend— good
                    be with him and all such!—had taken this wreck of former power and brilliancy,
                    and cared for him as a son would care for a father. Among other changes which
                    the years had worked was the old man's conversion to Christianity by
                    spiritualism. I met him one night at Mrs. Milner Gibson's, and he came up to me
                    as soon as he saw me enter the room. We talked together for some time, the
                    burden of his speech being lamentations that he had ever said anything to
                    strengthen my own want of orthodoxy, and beseechings to reconsider the question,
                    and—as he had done—come over to Christianity by the way of spiritualism and
                    messages from the dead. He died not very long after this; but his true self had
                    died long before.
                George Cruikshank too, was among the labourers on the ungrateful field of my
                    mind. One evening we had been to Westland Marston's, and we walked home 
                        to-
                        together
                     gether. On the way we passed a group
                    of rowdy drunken men and women. Suddenly George stopped, and, taking hold of my
                    arm, said solemnly:
                ‘You are responsible for those poor wretches.’
                I answered that I did not exactly see this and disclaimed any share in their
                    degradation. But he insisted on it; and hung those ruined souls like infernal
                    bells about my neck, tinkling out my own damnation because at supper I had drunk
                    a glass of champagne from which he had vainly tried to dissuade me.
                He got heated and excited when I would not have what he called enough grace of
                    conscience to recognise my responsibility in the drunkenness of these poor
                    sinners. But we did not quarrel. Sincerity is far too valuable a quality to be
                    resented, even when unduly aggressive; and the good old fellow had so many fine
                    and sterling moral 
                        beau-
                        beauties
                     ties, one could easily pardon a
                    certain want of proportion in some and want of taste in others. If he had a
                    horror of drunkenness, so had I; for, though never near to being under the curse
                    myself, had I not seen the misery it had worked with one I had loved so
                    well?
                END OF VOL. II.
                BILLING AND SONS PRINTERS, GUILDFORD. G., C. & Co.
            
        
    
