
     ----CITATION----
        Yonge, Charlotte Mary (1823-1901). The Heir of Redclyffe, Volume 1. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 736 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2000-May-06).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7078
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    THE HEIR OF REDCLYFFE.
                
                BY THE AUTHOR OF ‘THE TWO GUARDIANS,’ ‘HENRIETTA'S WISH,’ ‘THE KINGS OF
                    ENGLAND,’ ETC. ETC.
                IN TWO VOLUMES.
                VOL. I.
                
                    LONDON:
                    JOHN.W. PARKER AND SON, WEST STRAND.
                
                MDCCCLIII.
                
                
                    LONDON:
                    SAVILL AND EDWARDS, PRINTERS, CHANDOS-STREET, COVENT
                        GARDEN.
                
            
        
        
            
            
            THE HEIR OF REDCLYFFE.
            
                CHAPTER I.
                
                    
                        
                            
                                In such pursuits if wisdom lies,
                                Who, Laura, can thy taste despise?
                            
                        
                        GAY.
                    
                
                THE drawing-room of Hollywell House was one of the favoured
                    apartments, where a peculiar air of home seems to reside, whether seen in the
                    middle of summer, all its large windows open to the garden, or, as when our
                    story commences, its bright fire, and stands of fragrant green-house plants
                    contrasted with the wintry fog and leafless trees of November. There were two
                    persons in the room—a young lady, who sat drawing at the round table, and a
                    youth, lying on a couch near the fire, surrounded with books and newspapers, and
                    a pair of crutches near him. Both looked up with a smile of welcome at the
                    entrance of a tall, fine-looking young man, whom each greeted with ‘Good
                    morning, Philip.’
                ‘Good morning, Laura. Good morning, Charles; I am glad you are downstairs again!
                    How are you to-day?’
                ‘No way remarkable, thank you,’ was the answer, somewhat wearily given by
                    Charles.
                ‘You walked?’ said Laura.
                ‘Yes. Where's my uncle? I called at the post-office, and brought a letter for
                    him. It has the Moorworth post-mark,’ he added, producing it.
                
                ‘Where's that?’ said Charles.
                ‘The post-town to Redclyffe; Sir Guy Morville's place.’
                ‘That old Sir Guy! What can he have to do with my father?’
                ‘Did you not know,’ said Philip, ‘that my uncle is to be guardian to the boy—his
                    grandson?’
                ‘Eh? No, I did not.’
                ‘Yes,’ said Philip; ‘when old Sir Guy made it an especial point that my father
                    should take the guardianship, he only consented on condition that my uncle
                    should be joined with him; so now my uncle is alone in the trust, and I cannot
                    help thinking something must have happened at Redclyffe. It is certainly not Sir
                    Guy's writing.’
                ‘It must wait, unless your curiosity will carry you out in search of papa,’ said
                    Charles; ‘he is somewhere about, zealously supplying the place of Jenkins.’
                ‘Really, Philip,’ said Laura, ‘there is no telling how much good you have done
                    him by convincing him of Jenkins' dishonesty. To say nothing of the benefit of
                    being no longer cheated, the pleasure of having to overlook the farming is
                    untold.’
                Philip smiled, and came to the table where she was drawing. ‘Do you know this
                    place?’ said she, looking up in his face.
                ‘Stylehurst itself! What is it taken from?’
                ‘From this pencil sketch of your sister's, which I found in mamma's
                    scrap-book.’
                ‘You are making it very like, only the spire is too slender, and that tree—can't
                    you alter the foliage?—it is an ash.’
                ‘Is it? I took it for an elm.’
                ‘And surely those trees in the foreground should be greener, to throw back the
                    middle distance. That is the peak of South Moor exactly, if it looked further
                    off.’
                She began the alterations, while Philip stood watching her progress, a shade of
                    melancholy gathering on his face. Suddenly, a
                    voice called ‘Laura! Are you there? Open the door, and you will see.’
                On Philip's opening it, in came a tall camellia; the laughing face, and light,
                    shining curls of the bearer peeping through the dark green leaves.
                ‘Thank you! Oh, is it you, Philip? Oh, don't take it. I must bring my own
                    camellia to show Charlie.’
                ‘You make the most of that one flower,’ said Charles.
                ‘Only see how many buds!’ and she placed it by his sofa. ‘Is it not a perfect
                    blossom, so pure a white, and so regular! And I am so proud of having beaten
                    mamma and all the gardeners, for not another will be out this fortnight; and
                    this is to go to the horticultural show. Sam would hardly trust me to bring it
                    in, though it was my nursing, not his.’
                ‘Now, Amy,’ said Philip, when the flower had been duly admired, ‘you must let me
                    put it into the window, for you. It is too heavy for you.’
                ‘Oh, take care,’ cried Amabel, but too late; for, as he took it from her, the
                    solitary flower struck against Charles's little table, and was broken off.
                ‘O Amy, I am very sorry. What a pity! How did it happen?’
                ‘Never mind,’ she answered; ‘it will last a long time in water.’
                ‘It was very unlucky—I am very sorry—especially because of the horticultural
                    show.’
                ‘Make all your apologies to Sam,’ said Amy, ‘his feelings will be more hurt than
                    mine. I dare say my poor flower would have caught cold at the show, and never
                    held up its head again.’
                Her tone was gay; but Charles, who saw her face in the glass, betrayed her by
                    saying, ‘Winking away a tear, O Amy!’
                ‘I never nursed a dear gazelle!’ quoted Amy, with a merry laugh; and before any
                    more could be said, there entered a middle-aged gentleman, short and slight,
                    with a fresh, weather-beaten, good-natured face,
                    grey whiskers, quick eyes, and a hasty, undecided air in look and movement. He
                    greeted Philip heartily, and the letter was given to him.
                ‘Ha! Eh? Let us look. Not old Sir Guy's hand. Eh? What can be the matter? What?
                    Dead! This is a sudden thing.’
                ‘Dead! Who? Sir Guy Morville?’
                ‘Yes, quite suddenly—poor old man.’ Then stepping to the door, he opened it, and
                    called, ‘Mamma; just step here a minute, will you, mamma?’
                The summons was obeyed by a tall, handsome lady, and behind her crept, with
                    doubtful steps, as if she knew not how far to venture, a little girl of eleven,
                    her turned-up nose and shrewd face full of curiosity. She darted up to Amabel;
                    who, though she shook her head, and held up her finger, smiled, and took the
                    little girl's hand, listening meanwhile to the announcement, ‘Do you hear this,
                    mamma? Here's a shocking thing! Sir Guy Morville dead, quite suddenly.’
                ‘Indeed! Well, poor man, I suppose no one ever repented or suffered more than he.
                    Who writes?’
                ‘His grandson—poor boy! I can hardly make out his letter.’ Holding it half a yard
                    from his eyes, so that all could see a few lines of hasty, irregular writing, in
                    a forcible hand, bearing marks of having been penned under great distress and
                    agitation, he read aloud:-
                
                    
                        
                            
                                ‘‘DEAR MR. EDMONSTONE,—My dear grandfather died at six this
                                    morning. He had an attack of apoplexy yesterday evening, and
                                    never spoke again, though for a short time he knew me. We hope
                                    he suffered little. Markham will make all arrangements. We
                                    propose that the funeral should take place on Tuesday; I hope
                                    you will be able to come. I would write to my cousin, Philip
                                    Morville, if I knew his address; but I depend on you for saying
                                    all that ought to be said. Excuse this illegible letter,—I
                                    hardly know what I write.
                                
                                    ‘Yours, very sincerely,
                                    ‘Guy Morville.’’
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                ‘Poor fellow!’ said Philip, ‘he writes with a great deal of proper feeling.’
                ‘How very sad for him to be left alone there!’ said Mrs. Edmonstone.
                ‘Very sad—very,’ said her husband. ‘I must start off to him at once—yes, at once.
                    Should you not say so, eh! Philip?’
                ‘Certainly. I think I had better go with you. It would be the correct thing, and
                    I should not like to fail in any token of respect for poor old Sir Guy.’
                ‘Of course—of course,’ said Mr. Edmonstone; ‘it would be the correct thing. I am
                    sure he was always very civil to us, and you are next heir after this boy.’
                Little Charlotte made a sort of jump, lifted her eyebrows, and stared at
                    Amabel.
                Philip answered. ‘That is not worth a thought; but since he and I are now the
                    only representatives of the two branches of the house of Morville, it shall not
                    be my fault if the enmity is not forgotten.’
                ‘Buried in oblivion would sound more magnanimous,’ said Charles; at which Amabel
                    laughed so uncontrollably that she was forced to hide her head on her little
                    sister's shoulder. Charlotte laughed too, an imprudent proceeding, as it
                    attracted attention. Her father smiled, saying, half-reprovingly,—‘So you are
                    there, inquisitive pussy-cat?’ And at her mother's question,—‘Charlotte, what
                    business have you here?’ She stole back to her lessons, looking very small,
                    without the satisfaction of hearing her mother's compassionate words,—‘Poor
                    child!’
                ‘How old is he?’ asked Mr. Edmonstone, returning to the former subject.
                ‘He is of the same age as Laura—seventeen and a-half,’ answered Mrs. Edmonstone.
                    ‘Don't you remember my brother saying what a satisfaction it was to see such a
                    noble baby as she was, after such a poor little miserable thing as the one at
                    Redclyffe?’
                ‘He is grown into a fine spirited fellow,’ said Philip.
                
                ‘I suppose we must have him here,’ said Mr. Edmonstone. ‘Should you not say
                    so—eh, Philip?’
                ‘Certainly; I should think it very good for him. Indeed, his grandfather's death
                    has happened at a most favourable time for him. The poor old man had such a
                    dread of his going wrong that he kept him—’
                ‘I know—as tight as a drum.’
                ‘With strictness that I should think very bad for a boy of his impatient temper.
                    It would have been a very dangerous experiment to send him at once among the
                    temptations of Oxford, after such discipline and solitude as he has been used
                    to.’
                ‘Don't talk of it,’ interrupted Mr. Edmonstone, spreading out his hands in a
                    deprecating manner. ‘We must do the best we can with him, for I have got him on
                    my hands till he is five-and-twenty—his grandfather has tied him up till then.
                    If we can keep him out of mischief, well and good; if not, it can't be
                    helped.’
                ‘You have him all to yourself,’ said Charles.
                ‘Ay, to my sorrow. If your poor father was alive, Philip, I should be free of all
                    care. I've a pretty deal on my hands,’ he proceeded, looking more important than
                    troubled. ‘All that great Redclyffe estate is no sinecure, to say nothing of the
                    youth himself. If all the world will come to me, I can't help it. I must go and
                    speak to the men, if I am to be off to Redclyffe to-morrow. Will you come,
                    Philip?’
                ‘I must go back soon, thank you,’ replied Philip. ‘I must see about my leave;
                    only we should first settle when to set off.’
                This arranged, Mr. Edmonstone hurried away, and Charles began by saying, ‘Isn't
                    there a ghost at Redclyffe?’
                ‘So it is said,’ answered his cousin; ‘though I don't think it is certain whose
                    it is. There is a room called Sir Hugh's Chamber, over the gateway, but the
                    honour of naming it is undecided between Hugo de Morville, who murdered Thomas à
                    Becket, and his namesake, the first baronet, who lived in the time of William
                        of Orange, when the quarrel began with our
                    branch of the family. Do you know the history of it, aunt?’
                ‘It was about some property,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone, ‘though I don't know the
                    rights of it. But the Morvilles were always a fiery, violent race, and the
                    enmity once begun between Sir Hugh and his brother, was kept up, generation
                    after generation, in a most unjustifiable way. Even I can remember when the
                    Morvilles of Redclyffe used to be spoken of in our family like a sort of
                    ogres.’
                ‘Not undeservedly, I should think,’ said Philip. ‘This poor old man, who is just
                    dead, ran a strange career. Stories of his duels and mad freaks are still
                    extant.’
                ‘Poor man! I believe he went all lengths,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone.
                ‘What was the true version of that horrible story about his son?’ said Philip.
                    ‘Did he strike him?’
                ‘Oh, no! it was bad enough without that!’
                ‘How?’ asked Laura.
                ‘He was an only child, and lost his mother early. He was very ill brought up, and
                    was as impetuous and violent as Sir Guy himself, though with much kindliness and
                    generosity. He was only nineteen when he made a runaway marriage with a girl of
                    sixteen, the sister of a violin-player who was at that time in fashion. His
                    father was very much offended, and there was much dreadfully violent conduct on
                    each side. At last, the young man was driven to seek a reconciliation. He
                    brought his wife to Moorworth, and rode to Redclyffe, to have an interview with
                    his father. Unhappily, Sir Guy was giving a dinner to the hunt, and had been
                    drinking. He not only refused to see him, but I am afraid he used shocking
                    language, and said something about bidding him go back to his fiddling
                    brother-in-law. The son was waiting in the hall, heard everything, threw himself
                    on his horse, and rushed away in the dark. His forehead struck against the
                    branch of a tree, and he was killed on the spot.’
                
                ‘The poor wife?’ asked Amabel, shuddering.
                ‘She died the next day, when this boy was born.’
                ‘Frightful!’ said Philip. ‘It might well make a reformation in old Sir Guy.’
                ‘I have heard that nothing could be more awful than the stillness that fell on
                    that wretched party, even before they knew what had happened—before Colonel
                    Harewood, who had been called aside by the servants, could resolve to come and
                    fetch away the father. No wonder Sir Guy was a changed man from that hour.’
                ‘It was then that he sent for my father,’ said Philip. ‘But what made him think
                    of doing so?’
                ‘You know Colonel Harewood's house at Stylehurst? Many years ago, when the St.
                    Mildred's races used to be so much more in fashion, Sir Guy and Colonel
                    Harewood, and some men of that stamp, took that house amongst them, and used to
                    spend some time there every year, to attend to something about the training of
                    the horses. There were some malpractices of their servants, that did so much
                    harm in the parish, that my brother was obliged to remonstrate. Sir Guy was very
                    angry at first, but behaved better at last than any of the others. I suspect he
                    was struck by my dear brother's bold, uncompromising ways, for he took to him to
                    a certain degree—and my brother could not help being interested in him, there
                    seemed to be so much goodness in his nature. I saw him once, and never did I
                    meet any one who gave me so much the idea of a finished gentleman. When the poor
                    son was about fourteen, he was with a tutor in the neighbourhood, and used to be
                    a good deal at Stylehurst, and, after the unhappy marriage, my brother happened
                    to meet him in London, heard his story, and tried to bring about a
                    reconciliation.’
                ‘Ha!’ said Philip; ‘did not they come to Stylehurst? I have a dim recollection of
                    somebody very tall, and a lady who sung.’
                ‘Yes; your father asked them to stay there, that he might judge of her, and wrote
                    to Sir Guy that she was a little, gentle, childish thing, capable of being
                        moulded to anything, and representing the
                    mischief of leaving them to such society as that of her brother, who was
                    actually maintaining them. That letter was never answered, but about ten days or
                    a fortnight after this terrible accident, Colonel Harewood wrote to entreat my
                    brother to come to Redclyffe, saying poor Sir Guy had eagerly caught at the
                    mention of his name. Of course he went at once, and he told me that he never, in
                    all his experience as a clergyman, saw any one so completely broken down with
                    grief.’
                ‘I found a great many of his letters among my father's papers,’ said Philip; ‘and
                    it was a very touching one that he wrote to me on my father's death. Those
                    Redclyffe people certainly have great force of character.’
                ‘And was it then he settled his property on my uncle?’ said Charles.
                ‘Yes,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone. ‘My brother did not like his doing so, but he would
                    not be at rest till it was settled. It was in vain to put him in mind of his
                    grandchild, for he would not believe it could live; and, indeed, its life hung
                    on a thread. I remember my brother telling me how he went to Moorworth to see
                    it—for it could not be brought home—in hopes of bringing, back a report that
                    might cheer its grandfather, but how he found it so weak and delicate, that he
                    did not dare to try to make him take interest in it. It was not till the child
                    was two or three years old, that Sir Guy ventured to let himself grow fond of
                    it.’
                ‘Sir Guy was a very striking person,’ said Philip; ‘I shall not easily forget my
                    visit to Redclyffe four years ago. It was more like a scene in a romance than
                    anything real. The fine old red sandstone house, crumbling away in the exposed
                    parts; the arched gateway covered with ivy; the great quadrangle where the sun
                    never shone, and full of echoes; the large hall, and black wainscoted rooms,
                    which the candles never would light up. It is a fit place to be haunted.’
                
                ‘That poor boy alone there!’ said Mrs. Edmonstone; ‘I am glad you and your uncle
                    are going to him.’
                ‘Tell us about him,’ said Laura.
                ‘He was the most incongruous thing there,’ said Philip. ‘There was a calm, deep
                    melancholy about the old man added to the grand courtesy which showed he had
                    been what old books call a fine gentleman, that made him suit his house as a
                    hermit does his cell, or a knight his castle; but breaking in on this penseroso scene, there was Guy—’
                ‘In what way?’ asked Laura.
                ‘Always in wild spirits, rushing about, playing antics, provoking the solemn
                    echoes with shouting, whooping, singing, whistling. There was something in that
                    whistle of his that always made me angry!’
                ‘How did this suit old Sir Guy?’
                ‘It was curious to see how Guy could rattle on to him, pour out the whole history
                    of his doings, laughing, rubbing his hands, springing about with animation—all
                    with as little answer as if he had been talking to a statue.’
                ‘Do you mean that Sir Guy did not like it?’
                ‘He did in his own way. There was now and then a glance or a nod, to show that he
                    was attending; but it was such slight encouragement that any less buoyant
                    spirits must have been checked.’
                ‘Did you like him, on the whole?’ asked Laura. ‘I hope he has not this tremendous
                    Morville temper? Oh, you don't say so. What a grievous thing.’
                ‘He is a fine fellow,’ said Philip; ‘but I did not think Sir Guy managed him
                    well. Poor old man, he was quite wrapped up in him, and only thought how to keep
                    him out of harm's way. He would never let him be with other boys, and kept him
                    so fettered by rules, so strictly watched, and so sternly called to account,
                    that I cannot think how any boy could stand it.’
                ‘Yet, you say, he told everything freely to his grandfather,’ said Amy.
                ‘Yes,’ added her mother, ‘I was going to say that, as long as that went on, I
                    should think all safe.’
                
                ‘As I said before,’ resumed Philip, ‘he has a great deal of frankness, much of
                    the making of a fine character; but he is a thorough Morville. I remember
                    something that will show you his best and worst sides. You know Redclyffe is a
                    beautiful place, with magnificent cliffs overhanging the sea, and fine woods
                    crowning them. On one of the most inaccessible of these crags there was a hawk's
                    nest, about half-way down, so that looking from the top of the precipice, we
                    could see the old birds fly in and out. Well, what does Master Guy do, but go
                    down this headlong descent after the nest. How he escaped alive no one could
                    guess; and his grandfather could not bear to look at the place afterwards—but
                    climb it he did, and came back with two young hawks, buttoned up inside his
                    jacket.’
                ‘There's a regular brick for you!’ cried Charles, delighted.
                ‘His heart was set on training these birds. He turned the library upside down in
                    search of books on falconry, and spent every spare moment on them. At last, a
                    servant left some door open, and they escaped. I shall never forget Guy's
                    passion; I am sure I don't exaggerate when I say he was perfectly beside himself
                    with anger.’
                ‘Poor boy!’ said Mrs. Edmonstone.
                ‘Served the rascal right,’ said Charles.
                ‘Nothing had any effect on him till his grandfather came out, and, at the sight
                    of him, he was tamed in an instant, hung his head, came up to his grandfather,
                    and said—‘I am very sorry.’ Sir Guy answered, ‘My poor boy,’ and there was not
                    another word. I saw Guy no more that day, and all the next he was quiet and
                    subdued. But the most remarkable part of the story is to come. A couple of days
                    afterwards, we were walking in the woods, when, at the sound of Guy's whistle,
                    we heard a flapping and rustling, and beheld, tumbling along, with their clipped
                    wings, these two identical hawks, very glad to be caught. They drew themselves
                    up proudly for him to stroke them, and their yellow eyes looked at him with
                    positive affection.’
                
                ‘Pretty creatures!’ said Amabel. ‘That is a very nice end to the story.’
                ‘It is not the end,’ said Philip. ‘I was surprised to see Guy so sober, instead
                    of going into one of his usual raptures. He took them home; but the first thing
                    I heard in the morning was, that he was gone to offer them to a farmer, to keep
                    the birds from his fruit.’
                ‘Did he do it of his own accord?’ asked Laura.
                ‘That was just what I wanted to know; but any hint about them brought such a
                    cloud over his face that I thought it would be wanton to irritate him by
                    questions. However, I must be going. Good-bye, Amy, I hope your Camellia will
                    have another blossom before I come back. At least, I shall escape the
                    horticultural meeting.’
                ‘Good-bye,’ said Charles. ‘Put the feud in your pocket till you can bury it in
                    old Sir Guy's grave, unless you mean to fight it out with his grandson, which
                    would be more romantic and exciting.’
                Philip was gone before he could finish. Mrs. Edmonstone looked annoyed, and Laura
                    said, ‘Charlie, I wish you would not let your spirits carry you away.’
                ‘I wish I had anything else to carry me away!’ was the reply.
                ‘Yes,’ said his mother, looking sadly at him. ‘Your high spirits are a blessing;
                    but why misuse them? If they are given to support you through pain and
                    confinement, why make mischief with them?’
                Charles looked more impatient than abashed, and the compunction seemed chiefly to
                    rest with Amabel.
                ‘Now,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone, ‘I must go and see after my poor little
                    prisoner.’
                ‘Ah!’ said Laura, as she went; ‘it was no kindness in you to encourage Charlotte
                    to stay, Amy, when you know how often that inquisitive temper has got her into
                    scrapes.’
                ‘I suppose so,’ said Amy, regretfully; ‘but I had not the heart to send her
                    away.’
                
                ‘That is just what Philip says, that you only want bones and sinews in your
                    character to—’
                ‘Come, Laura,’ interrupted Charles, ‘I won't hear Philip's criticisms of my
                    sister, I had rather she had no bones at all, than that they stuck out and ran
                    into me. There are plenty of angles already in the world, without sharpening
                    hers.’
                He possessed himself of Amy's round, plump, childish hand, and spread out over it
                    his still whiter, and very bony fingers, pinching her ‘soft pinky cushions,’ as
                    he called them, ‘not meant for studying anatomy upon.’
                ‘Ah! you two spoil each other sadly,’ said Laura, smiling, as she left the
                    room.
                ‘And what do Philip and Laura do to each other?’ said Charles.
                ‘Improve each other, I suppose,’ said Amabel, in a shy, simple tone, at which
                    Charles laughed heartily.
                ‘I wish I was as sensible as Laura!’ said she, presently, with a sigh.
                ‘Never was a more absurd wish,’ said Charles, tormenting her hand still more, and
                    pulling her curls; ‘unwish it forthwith. Where should I be without silly little
                    Amy? If every one weighed my wit before laughing, I should not often be in
                    disgrace for my high spirits, as they call them.’
                ‘I am so little younger than Laura,’ said Amy, still sadly, though smiling.
                ‘Folly,’ said Charles; ‘you are quite wise enough for your age, while Laura is so
                    prematurely wise, that I am in constant dread that nature will take her revenge
                    by causing her to do something strikingly foolish!’
                ‘Nonsense!’ cried Amy, indignantly. ‘Laura do anything foolish!’
                ‘What I should enjoy,’ proceeded Charles, ‘would be to see her over head and ears
                    in love with this hero, and Philip properly jealous.’
                ‘How can you say such things, Charlie?’
                ‘Why? was there ever a beauty who did not fall in love with her father's
                    ward?’
                
                ‘Yes; but she ought to live alone with her very old father and horribly grim
                    maiden aunt.’
                ‘Very well, Amy, you shall be the maiden, aunt.’ And as Laura returned at that
                    moment, he announced to her that they had been agreeing that no hero ever failed
                    to fall in love with his guardian's beautiful daughter.
                ‘If his guardian had a beautiful daughter,’ said Laura, resolved not to be
                    disconcerted.
                ‘Did you ever hear such barefaced fishing for compliments?’ said Charles; but
                    Amabel, who did not like her sister to be teazed, and was also conscious of
                    having wasted a good deal of time, sat down to practise. Laura returned to her
                    drawing; and Charles, with a yawn, listlessly turned over a newspaper, while his
                    fair delicate features, which would have been handsome but that they were
                    blanched, sharpened, and worn with pain, gradually lost their animated and
                    rather satirical expression, and assumed an air of weariness and discontent.
                Charles was at this time nineteen, and for the last ten years had been afflicted
                    with a disease in the hip-joint, which, in spite of the most anxious care,
                    caused him frequent and severe suffering, and had occasioned such a contraction
                    of the limb as to cripple him completely, while his general health was so much
                    affected as to render him an object of constant anxiety. His mother had always
                    been his most devoted and indefatigable nurse, giving up everything for his
                    sake, and watching him night and day. His father attended to his least caprice,
                    and his sisters were, of course, his slaves; so that he was the undisputed
                    sovereign of the whole family.
                The two elder girls had been entirely under a governess till a month or two
                    before the opening of our story, when Laura was old enough to be introduced; and
                    the governess departing, the two sisters became Charles's companions in the
                    drawing-room, while Mrs. Edmonstone, who had a peculiar taste and talent for
                    teaching, undertook little Charlotte's lessons herself.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER II.
                
                    
                        
                            
                                If the ill spirit have so fair a house,
                                Good things will strive to dwell with't.
                            
                        
                        THE TEMPEST.
                    
                
                ONE of the pleasantest rooms at Hollywell was Mrs. Edmonstone's
                    dressing-room—large and bay-windowed, over the drawing-room, having little of
                    the dressing-room but the name, and a toilet-table with a black and gold
                    japanned glass, and curiously shaped boxes to match; her room opened into it on
                    one side, and Charles's on the other; it was a sort of upstairs parlour, where
                    she taught Charlotte, cast up accounts, spoke to servants, and wrote notes, and
                    where Charles was usually to be found, when unequal to coming down stairs. It
                    had an air of great snugness, with its large folding-screen, covered with prints
                    and caricatures of ancient date, its book-shelves, its tables, its peculiarly
                    easy arm-chairs, the great invalid sofa, and the grate, which always lighted up
                    better than any other in the house.
                In the bright glow of the fire, with the shutters closed and curtains drawn, lay
                    Charles on his couch, one Monday evening, in a gorgeous dressing-gown of a
                    Chinese pattern, all over pagodas, while little Charlotte sat opposite to him,
                    curled up on a foot-stool. He was not always very civil to Charlotte; she
                    sometimes came into collision with him, for she, too, was a pet, and had a will
                    of her own, and at other times she could bore him; but just now they had a
                    common interest, and he was gracious.
                ‘It is striking six, so they must soon be here. I wish mamma would let me go down; but I must wait till after dinner.’
                ‘Then, Charlotte, as soon as you come in, hold up your hands, and exclaim, ‘What
                    a guy!’ There will be a compliment!’
                ‘No, Charlie; I promised mamma and Laura that you should get me into no more
                    scrapes.’
                ‘Did you? The next promise you make had better depend upon yourself alone.’
                ‘But Amy said I must be quiet, because poor Sir Guy will be too sorrowful to like
                    a racket; and when Amy tells me to be quiet, I know that I must indeed.’
                ‘Most true,’ said Charles, laughing.
                ‘Do you think you shall like Sir Guy?’
                ‘I shall be able to determine,’ said Charles, sententiously, ‘when I have seen
                    whether he brushes his hair to the right or left.’
                ‘Philip brushes his to the left.’
                ‘Then, undoubtedly, Sir Guy will brush his to the right.’
                ‘Is there not some horrid story about those Morvilles of Redclyffe?’ asked
                    Charlotte. ‘I asked Laura, and she told me not to be curious, so I knew there
                    was something in it; and then I asked Amy, and she said it would be no pleasure
                    to me to know.’
                ‘Ah! I would have you prepared.’
                ‘Why, what is it? Oh! dear Charlie! are you really going to tell me?’
                ‘Did you ever hear of a deadly feud?’
                ‘I have read of them in the history of Scotland. They went on hating and killing
                    each other for ever. There was one man who made his enemy's children eat out of
                    a pig trough, and another who cut off his head—’
                ‘His own?’
                ‘No, his enemy's, and put it on the table, at breakfast, with a piece of bread in
                    its mouth.’
                ‘Very well; whenever Sir Guy serves up Philip's head at breakfast, with a piece
                    of bread in his mouth, let me know.’
                
                Charlotte started up. ‘Charles, what do you mean? Such things don't happen
                    now.’
                ‘Nevertheless, there is a deadly feud between the two branches of the house of
                    Morville.’
                ‘But it is very wrong,’ said Charlotte, looking frightened.
                ‘Wrong? Of course it is.’
                ‘Philip wont do anything wrong. But how will they ever get on?’
                ‘Don't you see? It must be our serious endeavour to keep the peace, and prevent
                    occasions of discord.’
                ‘Do you think anything will happen?’
                ‘It is much to be apprehended,’ said Charles, solemnly.
                At that moment the sound of wheels was heard, and Charlotte flew off to her
                    private post of observation, leaving her brother delighted at having mystified
                    her. She returned on tip-toe. ‘Papa and Sir Guy are come, but not Philip; I
                    can't see him anywhere.’
                ‘Ah! you have not looked in Sir Guy's great coat pocket.’
                ‘I wish you would not plague me so! You are not in earnest?’
                The pettish, inquiring tone was exactly what delighted him, and he continued to
                    teaze her in the same style till Laura and Amabel came running in with their
                    report of the stranger.
                ‘He is come!’ they cried, with one voice.
                ‘Very gentlemanlike!’ said Laura.
                ‘Very pleasant looking,’ said Amy. ‘Such fine eyes!’
                ‘And so much expression,’ said Laura. ‘Oh!’
                The exclamation, and the start which accompanied it, were caused by hearing her
                    father's voice close to the door, which had been left partly open. ‘Here is poor
                    Charles,’ it said; ‘come in, and see him; get over the first introduction—eh,
                    Guy?’ And before he had finished, both he and the guest were in the room, and
                    Charlotte full of mischievous glee at her sister's confusion.
                ‘Well, Charlie, boy, how goes it?’ was his father's 
                        greet-
                        greeting
                     ing. ‘Better, eh? Sorry not to find
                    you downstairs; but I have brought Guy to see you.’ Then, as Charles sat up and
                    shook hands with Sir Guy, he continued—‘A fine chance for you, as I was telling
                    him, to have a companion always at hand: a fine chance?—eh, Charlie?’
                ‘I am not so unreasonable as to expect any one to be always at hand,’ said
                    Charles, smiling, as he looked up at the frank, open face, and lustrous hazel
                    eyes turned on him with compassion at the sight of his crippled, helpless
                    figure, and with a bright, cordial promise of kindness.
                As he spoke, a pattering sound approached, the door was pushed open, and while
                    Sir Guy exclaimed, ‘O, Bustle! Bustle! I am very sorry,’ there suddenly appeared
                    a large beautiful spaniel, with a long silky black and white coat, jetty curled
                    ears, tan spots above his intelligent eyes, and tan legs, fringed with silken
                    waves of hair. There he stood, wagging his tail at having found his master, but
                    crouching and looking beseeching at meeting no welcome, while Sir Guy seemed
                    much distressed at his intrusion.
                ‘O you beauty!’ cried Charles. ‘Come here, you fine fellow.’
                Bustle only looked wistfully at his master, and moved nothing but his feather of
                    a tail.
                ‘Ah! I was afraid you would repent of your kindness,’ said Sir Guy to Mr.
                    Edmonstone.
                ‘Not at all, not at all!’ was the answer; ‘mamma never objects to indoor pets,
                    eh, Amy?’
                ‘A tender subject, papa,’ said Laura; ‘poor Pepper!’
                Amy, ashamed of her disposition to cry at the remembrance of the dear departed
                    rough terrier, bent down to hide her glowing face, and held out her hand to the
                    dog, which at last ventured to advance, still creeping with his body curved till
                    his tail was foremost, looking imploringly at his master, as if to entreat his
                    pardon.
                ‘Are you sure you don't dislike it?’ inquired Sir Guy, of Charles.
                ‘I? O no. Here, you fine creature.’
                
                ‘Come, then, behave like a rational dog, since you are come,’ said Sir Guy; and
                    Bustle, resuming the deportment of a spirited and well-bred spaniel, no longer
                    crouched and curled himself into the shape of a comma, but bounded, wagged his
                    tail, thrust his nose into his master's hand and then proceeded to reconnoitre
                    the rest of the company, paying especial attention to Charles, putting his fore
                    paws on the sofa, and rearing himself up to contemplate him, with a grave,
                    polite curiosity, that was very diverting.
                ‘Well, old fellow,’ said Charles, ‘did you ever see the like of such a
                    dressing-gown? Are you satisfied? Give me your paw, and let us swear an eternal
                    friendship.’
                ‘I am quite glad to see a dog in the house again,’ said Laura, and, after a few
                    more compliments, Bustle and his master followed Mr. Edmonstone out of the
                    room.
                ‘One of my father's well-judged proceedings,’ murmured Charles. ‘That poor fellow
                    had rather have gone a dozen miles further than have been lugged in here!
                    Really, if papa chooses to inflict such dressing-gowns on me, he should give me
                    notice before he brings men and dogs to make me their laughingstock!’
                ‘An unlucky moment,’ said Laura. ‘Will my cheeks ever cool?’
                ‘Perhaps he did not hear,’ said Amabel, consolingly.
                ‘You did not ask about Philip,’ said Charlotte, with great earnestness.
                ‘He is staying at Thorndale, and then going to St. Mildred's,’ said Laura.
                ‘I hope you are relieved,’ said her brother; and she looked in doubt whether she
                    ought to laugh.
                ‘And what do you think of Sir Guy?’
                ‘May he only be worthy of his dog!’ replied Charles.
                ‘Ah!’ said Laura, ‘many men are neither worthy of their wives, nor of their
                    dogs.’
                ‘Dr. Henley, I suppose, is the foundation of that aphorism,’ said Charles.
                ‘If Margaret Morville could marry him, she could
                    hardly be too worthy,’ said Laura. ‘Think of throwing away Philip's whole
                    soul!’
                ‘O Laura, she could not lose that,’ said Amabel.
                Laura looked as if she knew more; but at that moment, both her father and mother
                    entered, the former rubbing his hands, as he always did when much pleased, and
                    sending his voice before him, as he exclaimed, ‘Well, Charlie, well, young
                    ladies, is not he a fine fellow—eh?’
                ‘Rather under sized,’ said Charles.
                ‘Eh? He'll grow. He is not eighteen, you know; plenty of time; a very good
                    height; you can't expect every one to be as tall as Philip; but he's a capital
                    fellow. And how have you been?—any pain?’
                ‘Hem—rather,’ said Charles, shortly, for he hated answering kind inquiries, when
                    out of humour.
                ‘Ah, that's a pity; I was sorry not to find you in the drawing-room, but I
                    thought you would have liked just to see him,’ said Mr. Edmonstone,
                    disappointed, and apologizing.
                ‘I had rather have had some notice of your intention,’ said Charles; ‘I would
                    have made myself fit to be seen.’
                ‘I am sorry. I thought you would have liked his coming,’ said poor Mr.
                    Edmonstone, only half conscious of his offence; ‘but I see you are not well this
                    evening.’
                Worse and worse, for it was equivalent to openly telling Charles he was out of
                    humour; and seeing, as he did, his mother's motive, he was still further annoyed
                    when she hastily interposed a question about Sir Guy.
                ‘You should only hear them talk about him at Redclyffe,’ said Mr. Edmonstone. ‘No
                    one was ever equal to him, according to them. Every one said the same—clergyman,
                    old Markham, all of them. Such attention to his grandfather, such proper
                    feeling, so good-natured, not a bit of pride—it is my firm belief that he will
                    make up for all his family before him.’
                Charles set up his eyebrows sarcastically.
                ‘How does he get on with Philip?’ inquired Laura.
                ‘Excellently. Just what could be wished. Philip is delighted with him; and I have
                    been telling Guy all the way home what a
                    capital friend he will be, and he is quite inclined to look up to him.’ Charles
                    made an exaggerated gesture of astonishment, unseen by his father. ‘I told him
                    to bring his dog. He would have left it, but they seemed so fond of each other,
                    I thought it was a pity to part them, and that I could promise it should be
                    welcome here; eh, mamma?’
                ‘Certainly. I am very glad you brought it.’
                ‘We are to have his horse and man in a little while. A beautiful
                    chestnut—anything to raise his spirits. He is terribly cut up about his
                    grandfather.’
                It was now time to go down to dinner; and after Charles had made faces of
                    weariness and disgust at all the viands proposed to him by his mother, almost
                    imploring him to like them, and had at last ungraciously given her leave to send
                    what he could not quite say he disliked, he was left to carry on his teazing of
                    Charlotte, and his grumbling over the dinner, for about the space of an hour,
                    when Amabel came back to him, and Charlotte went down.
                ‘Hum!’ he exclaimed. ‘Another swan of my father's.’
                ‘Did not you like his looks?’
                ‘I saw only an angular hobbetyhoy.’
                ‘But every one at Redclyffe speaks so well of him.’
                ‘As if the same things were not said of every heir to more acres than brains!
                    However, I could have swallowed everything but the disposition to adore Philip.
                    Either it was gammon on his part, or else the work of my father's
                    imagination.’
                ‘For shame, Charlie.’
                ‘Is it within the bounds of probability that he should be willing, at the bidding
                    of his guardian, to adopt as Mentor his very correct and sententious cousin, a
                    poor subaltern, and the next in the entail? Depend upon it, it is a fiction
                    created either by papa's hopes or Philip's self-complacency, or else the
                    unfortunate youth must have been brought very low by strait-lacing and milk and
                    water.’
                ‘Mr. Thorndale is willing to look up to Philip.’
                
                ‘I don't think the Thorndale swan very—very much better than a tame goose,’ said
                    Charles; ‘but the coalition is not so monstrous in his case, since Philip was a
                    friend of his own picking and choosing, and so his father's adoption did not
                    succeed in repelling him. But that Morville should receive this ‘young man's
                    companion,’ on the word of a guardian whom he never set eyes on before, is too
                    incredible—utterly mythical I assure you, Amy. And how did you get on at
                    dinner?’
                ‘O the dog is the most delightful creature I ever saw, so sensible and well
                    mannered.’
                ‘It was of the man that I asked.’
                ‘He said hardly anything, and sometimes started if papa spoke to him suddenly. He
                    winced as if he could not bear to be called Sir Guy, so papa said we should call
                    him only by his name, if he would do the same by us. I am glad of it, for it
                    seems more friendly, and I am sure he wants to be comforted.’
                ‘Don't waste your compassion, my dear; few men need it less. With his property,
                    those moors to shoot over, his own master, and with health to enjoy it, there
                    are plenty who would change with him for all your pity, my silly little
                    Amy.’
                ‘Surely not, with that horrible ancestry.’
                ‘All very well to plume oneself upon. I rather covet that ghost myself.’
                ‘Well, if you watched his face, I think you would be sorry for him.’
                ‘I am tired of the sound of his name. One fifth of November is enough in the
                    year. Here, find something to read to me among that trumpery.’
                Amy read till she was summoned to tea, when she found a conversation going on
                    about Philip, on whose history Sir Guy did not seem fully informed. Philip was
                    the son of Archdeacon Morville, Mrs. Edmonstone's brother, an admirable and
                    superior man, who had been dead about five years. He left three children,
                    Margaret and Fanny, twenty-five and twenty-three years of age, and Philip, just
                    seventeen. The boy was at the head of his
                    school, highly distinguished for application and good conduct; he had attained
                    every honour there open to him, won golden opinions from all concerned with him,
                    and made proof of talents which could not have failed to raise him to the
                    highest university distinctions. He was absent from home at the time of his
                    father's death, which took place after so short an illness, that there had been
                    no time to summon him back to Stylehurst. Very little property was left to be
                    divided among the three; and as soon as Philip perceived how small was the
                    provision for his sisters, he gave up his hopes of university honours, and
                    obtained a commission in the army.
                On hearing this, Sir Guy started forward: ‘Noble!’ he cried, ‘and yet what a
                    pity! If my grandfather had but known it—’
                ‘Ah! I was convinced of that,’ broke in Mr. Edmonstone,
                        ’ 
                         ‘
                    and so, I am sure, was Philip himself; but in fact he knew we should
                    never have given our consent, so he acted quite by himself, wrote to Lord
                    Thorndale, and never said a word, even to his sisters, till the thing was done.
                    I never was more surprised in my life.’
                ‘One would almost envy him the opportunity of making such a sacrifice,’ said Sir
                    Guy, ‘yet one must lament it.’
                ‘It was done in a hasty spirit of independence,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone; ‘I believe
                    if he had got a fellowship at Oxford, it would have answered much better.’
                ‘And now that poor Fanny is dead, and Margaret married, there is all his
                    expensive education thrown away, and all for nothing,’ said Mr. Edmonstone.
                ‘Ah,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone, ‘he planned for them to go on living at Stylehurst,
                    so that it would still have been his home. It is a great pity, for his talent is
                    thrown away, and he is not fond of his profession.’
                ‘You must not suppose, though, that he is not a practical man,’ said Mr.
                    Edmonstone; ‘I had rather take his opinion than any one's, especially about a
                    horse, and there is no end to what I hear about his good sense, and the use he
                    is of to the other young men.’
                
                ‘You should tell about Mr. Thorndale, papa,’ said Laura.
                ‘Ah that is a feather in master Philip's cap; besides, he is your neighbour—at
                    least, his father is.’
                ‘I suppose you know Lord Thorndale?’ said Mrs. Edmonstone, in explanation.
                ‘I have seen him once at the Quarter Sessions,’ said Sir Guy; ‘but he lives on
                    the other side of Moorworth, and there was no visiting.’
                ‘Well, this youth, James Thorndale, the second son, was Philip's fag.’
                ‘Philip says he was always licking him!’ interposed Charlotte.
                ‘He kept him out of some scrape or other,’ continued Mr. Edmonstone. ‘Lord
                    Thorndale was very much obliged to him, had him to stay at his house, took
                    pretty much to him altogether. It was through him that Philip applied for his
                    commission, and he has put his son into the same regiment, on purpose to have
                    him under Philip's eye. There he is at Broadstone, as gentlemanlike a youth as I
                    would wish to see. We will have him to dinner some day, and Maurice too—eh,
                    mamma? Maurice—he is a young Irish cousin of my own, a capital fellow at the
                    bottom, but a regular thoroughgoing rattle. That was my doing. I told his father
                    that he could not do better than put him into the —th. Nothing like a steady
                    friend and a good example, I said, and Kilcoran always takes my advice, and I
                    don't think he has been sorry. Maurice has kept much more out of scrapes of
                    late.’
                ‘O papa,’ exclaimed Charlotte, ‘Maurice has been out riding on a hired horse,
                    racing with Mr. Gordon, and the horse tumbled down at the bottom of East-hill,
                    and broke its knees.’
                ‘That's the way,’ said Mr. Edmonstone, ‘the instant my back is turned.’
                Thereupon the family fell into a discussion of home affairs, and thought little
                    more of their silent guest.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER III.
                
                    
                        
                            
                                The hues of bliss more brightly glow
                                Chastised by sober tints of woe.
                            
                        
                        GRAY.
                    
                
                ‘WHAT use shall I make of him?’ said Charles to himself, as he
                    studied Sir Guy Morville, who sat by the table, with a book in his hand.
                He had the unformed look of a growing boy, and was so slender as to appear taller
                    than he really was. He had an air of great activity; and though he sat leaning
                    back, there was no lounging in his attitude, and at the first summons he roused
                    up with an air of alert attention that recalled to mind the eager head of a
                    listening greyhound. He had no pretension to be called handsome; his eyes were
                    his best feature; they were very peculiar, of a light hazel, darker towards the
                    outside of the iris, very brilliant, the whites tinted with blue, and the lashes
                    uncommonly thick and black; the eyebrows were also very dark, and of a
                    sharply-defined, angular shape, but the hair was much lighter, loose, soft, and
                    wavy; the natural fairness of the complexion was shown by the whiteness of the
                    upper part of the forehead, though the rest of the face, as well as the small
                    taper hands, were tanned by sunshine and sea-breezes, into a fresh, hardy brown,
                    glowing with red on the cheeks.
                ‘What use shall I make of him?’ proceeded Charles's thoughts. ‘He wont be worth
                    his salt if he goes on in this way; he has got a graver specimen of literature
                    there than I ever saw Philip himself read on a week-day; he has been puritanized till he is good for nothing;
                    I'll trouble myself no more about him!’ He tried to read, but presently looked
                    up again. ‘Plague! I can't keep my thoughts off him. That sober look does not
                    sit on that sun-burnt face as if it were native to it; those eyes don't look as
                    if the Redclyffe spirit was extinguished.’
                Mrs. Edmonstone came in, and looking round, as if to find some occupation for her
                    guest, at length devised setting him to play at chess with Charles. Charles gave
                    her an amiable look, expressing that neither liked it; but she was pretty well
                    used to doing him good against his will, and trusted to its coming right in
                    time.
                Charles was a capital chess-player, and seldom found any one who could play well
                    enough to afford him much real sport, but he found Sir Guy more nearly a match
                    than often fell to his lot; it was a bold dashing game, that obliged him to be
                    on his guard, and he was once so taken by surprise as to be absolutely
                    check-mated. His ill humour evaporated, he was delighted to find an opponent
                    worth playing with, and henceforth there were games almost every morning or
                    evening, though Sir Guy seemed not to care much about them, except for the sake
                    of pleasing him.
                When left to himself, Guy spent his time in reading or in walking about the lanes
                    alone. He used to sit in the bay-window of the drawing-room with his book; but
                    sometimes, when they least expected it, the girls would find his quick eyes
                    following them with an air of amused curiosity, as Amabel waited on Charles and
                    her flowers, or Laura drew, wrote letters, and strove to keep down the piles of
                    books and periodicals under which it seemed as if her brother might some day be
                    stifled—a vain task, for he was sure to want immediately whatever she put out of
                    his reach.
                Laura and Amabel both played and sung, the former remarkably well, and the first
                    time they had any music after the arrival of Sir Guy, his look of delighted
                    attention struck everyone. He ventured nearer, stood by the piano when they
                    practised, and at last joined in with a few
                    notes of so full and melodious a voice, that Laura turned round in surprise,
                    exclaiming, ‘You sing better I than any of us!’
                He coloured. ‘I beg your pardon,’ he said, ‘I could not help it; I know nothing
                    of music.’
                ‘Really!’ said Laura, smiling incredulously.
                ‘I don't even know the notes.’
                ‘Then you must have a very good ear. Let us try again.’
                The sisters were again charmed and surprised, and Guy looked gratified, as people
                    do at the discovery of a faculty which they are particularly glad to possess. It
                    was the first time he appeared to brighten, and Laura and her mother agreed that
                    it would do him good to have plenty of music, and to try to train that fine
                    voice. He was beginning to interest them all greatly by his great helpfulness
                    and kindness to Charles, as he learnt the sort of assistance he required, as
                    well as by the silent grief that showed how much attached he must have been to
                    his grandfather.
                On the first Sunday, Mrs. Edmonstone, coming into the drawing-room at about
                    half-past five, found him sitting alone by the fire, his dog lying at his feet.
                    As he started up, she asked if he had been here in the dark ever since
                    church-time?
                ‘I have not wanted light,’ he answered with a sigh, long, deep, and
                    irrepressible, and as she stirred the fire, the flame revealed to her the traces
                    of tears. She longed to comfort him, and said—
                ‘This Sunday twilight is a quiet time for thinking.’
                ‘Yes,’ he said, ‘how few Sundays ago—’ and there he paused.
                ‘Ah! you had so little preparation.’
                ‘None. That very morning he had done business with Markham, and had never been
                    more clear and collected.’
                ‘Were you with him when he was taken ill?’ asked Mrs. Edmonstone, perceiving that
                    it would be a relief to him to talk.
                
                ‘No; it was just before dinner. I had been shooting, and went into the library to
                    tell him where I had been. He was well then, for he spoke, but it was getting
                    dark, and I did not see his face. I don't think I was ten minutes dressing, but
                    when I came down, he had sunk back in his chair. I saw it was not sleep—I
                    rang—and when Arnaud came, we knew how it was.’ His, voice became low with
                    strong emotion.
                ‘Did he recover his consciousness?’
                ‘Yes, that was the comfort,’ said Guy, eagerly. ‘It was after he had
                    been bled that he seemed to wake up. He could not speak or move, but he looked
                    at me—or—I don't know what I should have done.’ The last words were almost
                    inaudible from the gush of tears that he vainly struggled to repress, and he was
                    turning away to hide them, when he saw that Mrs. Edmonstone's were flowing
                    fast.
                ‘You had great reason to be attached to him!’ said she, as soon as she could
                    speak.
                ‘Indeed, indeed I had.’ And after a long silence—‘He was everything to me,
                    everything from the first hour I can recollect. He never let me miss my parents.
                    How he attended to all my pleasures and wishes, how he watched and cared for me,
                    and bore with me, even I can never know.’
                He spoke in short half sentences of intense feeling, and Mrs. Edmonstone was much
                    moved by such affection in one said to have been treated with an excess of
                    strictness, much compassionating the lonely boy, who had lost every family tie
                    in one.
                ‘When the first pain of the sudden parting has passed,’ said she, ‘you will like
                    to remember the affection which you knew how to value.’
                ‘If I had but known!’ said Guy; ‘but there was I, hasty, reckless, disregarding
                    his comfort, rebelling against—O, what would I not give to have those restraints
                    restored!’
                ‘It is what we all feel in such losses,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone. ‘There is always
                    much to wish 
                        other-
                        otherwise
                     wise; but I am sure you can have the
                    happiness of knowing you were his great comfort.’
                ‘It was what I ought to have been.’
                She knew that nothing could have been more filial and affectionate than his
                    conduct, and tried to say something of the kind, but he would not listen.
                ‘That is worst of all,’ he said; ‘and you must not trust what they say of me.
                    They would be sure to praise me, if I was anything short of a brute.’
                A silence ensued, while Mrs. Edmonstone was trying to think of some consolation.
                    Suddenly Guy looked up, and spoke eagerly:—
                ‘I want to ask something—a great favour—but you make me venture. You see how I am
                    left alone—you know how little I can trust myself. Will you take me in hand—let
                    me talk to you—and tell me if I am wrong, as freely as if I were Charles? I know
                    it is asking a great deal, but you knew my grandfather, and it is in his
                    name.’
                She held out her hand; and with tears answered,—
                ‘Indeed I will, if I see any occasion.’
                ‘You will let me trust to you to tell me when I get too vehement? above all, when
                    you see my temper failing? Thank you; you don't know what a relief it is!’
                ‘But you must not call yourself alone. You are one of us now.’
                ‘Yes; since you have made that promise,’ said Guy; and for the first time she saw
                    the full beauty of his smile—a sort of sweetness and radiance of which eye and
                    brow partook almost as much as the lips. It alone would have gained her
                    heart.
                ‘I must look on you as a kind of nephew,’ she added, kindly. ‘I used to hear so
                    much of you from my brother.’
                ‘Oh!’ cried Guy, lighting up, ‘Archdeacon Morville was always so kind to me. I
                    remember him very well!’
                ‘Ah! I wish —’ there she paused, and added,—‘it is not right to wish such
                    things—and Philip is very like his father.’
                
                ‘I am very glad his regiment is so near. I want to know him better.’
                ‘You knew him at Redclyffe, when he was staying there?’
                ‘Yes,’ said Guy, his colour rising; ‘but I was a boy then, and a very foolish,
                    headstrong one. I am glad to meet him again. What a grand-looking person he
                    is!’
                ‘We are very proud of him,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone, smiling. ‘I don't think there
                    has been an hour's anxiety about him since he was born.’
                The conversation was interrupted by the sound of Charles's crutches slowly
                    crossing the hall. Guy sprang to help him to his sofa, and then, without
                    speaking, hurried up-stairs.
                ‘Mamma, tête-à-tête with the silent one!’
                    exclaimed Charles.
                ‘I will not tell you all I think of him,’ said she, leaving the room.
                ‘Hum!’ soliloquised Charles. ‘That means that my lady mother has adopted him, and
                    thinks I should laugh at her, or straightway set up a dislike to him, knowing my
                    contempt for heroes and hero-worship. It's a treat to have Philip out of the
                    way, and if it was but possible to get out of hearing of his perfection, I
                    should have some peace. If I thought this fellow had one spice of the kind, I'd
                    never trouble my head about him more,—and yet I don't believe he has such a pair
                    of hawk's eyes for nothing!’
                The hawk's eyes, as Charles called them, shone brighter from that day forth, and
                    their owner began to show more interest in what passed around. Laura was much
                    amused by a little conversation she held with him one day, when a party of their
                    younger neighbours were laughing and talking nonsense round Charles's sofa. He
                    was sitting a little way off in silence, and she took advantage of the loud
                    laughing to say:
                ‘You think this is not very satisfactory?’ And as he gave a quick glance of
                    inquiry,—‘Don't mind saying so. Philip and I often agree that it is a pity
                        spend so much time in laughing at
                    nothing—at such nonsense.’
                ‘It is nonsense?’
                ‘Listen—no don't, it is too silly.’
                ‘Nonsense must be an excellent thing if it makes people so happy,’ said Guy
                    thoughtfully. ‘Look at them; they are like—not a picture—that has no life—but a
                    dream—or, perhaps a scene in a play.’
                ‘Did you never see anything like it?’
                ‘Oh, no! All the morning calls I ever saw were formal, every one stiff, and
                    speaking by rote, or talking politics. How glad I used to be to get on horseback
                    again! But to see these—why, it is like the shepherd's glimpse at the pixies!—as
                    one reads a new book, or watches what one only half understands—a rook's
                    parliament, or a gathering of sea-fowl on the Shag Rock.’
                ‘A rook's parliament?’
                ‘The people at home call it a rook's parliament when a whole cloud of rooks
                    settle on some bare, wide common, and sit there as if they were consulting, not
                    feeding, only stalking about, with drooping wings, and solemn, black
                    cloaks.’
                ‘You have found a flattering simile,’ said Laura, ‘as you know that rooks never
                    open their mouths without cause.’
                Guy had never heard the riddle, but he caught the pun instantly, and the clear
                    merry sound of his hearty laugh surprised Charles, who instantly noted it as
                    another proof that was some life in him.
                Indeed, each day began to make it evident that he had, on the whole, rather a
                    superabundance of animation than otherwise. He was quite confidential with Mrs.
                    Edmonstone, on whom he used to lavish, with boyish eagerness, all that
                    interested him, carrying her the passages in books that pleased him, telling her
                    about Redclyffe's affairs, and giving her his letters from Markham, the steward.
                    His head was full of his horse, Deloraine, which was coming to him under the
                    charge of a groom, and the consultations were endless about the means of transport, Mr. Edmonstone almost as
                    eager about it as he was himself.
                He did not so quickly become at home with the younger portion of the family, but
                    his spirits rose every day. He whistled as he walked in the garden, and Bustle,
                    instead of pacing soberly behind him, now capered, nibbled his pockets, and drew
                    him into games of play which Charles and Amabel were charmed to overlook from
                    the dressing-room window. There was Guy leaping, bounding, racing, rolling the
                    dog over, tripping him up, twitching his ears, tickling his feet, catching at
                    his tail, laughing at Bustle's springs, contortions, and harmless open-mouthed
                    attacks, while the dog did little less than laugh too, with his intelligent
                    amber eyes, and black and red mouth. Charles began to find a new interest in his
                    listless life in the attempt to draw Guy out, and make him give one of his merry
                    laughs. In this, however, he failed when his wit consisted in allusions to the
                    novels of the day, of which Guy knew nothing. One morning he underwent a regular
                    examination, ending in—
                ‘Have you read anything?’
                ‘I am afraid I am very ignorant of modern books.’
                ‘Have you read the ancient ones?’ asked Laura.
                ‘I've had nothing else to read.’
                ‘Nothing to read but ancient books!’ exclaimed Amabel, with a mixture of pity and
                    astonishment.
                ‘Sanchoniathon, Manetho, Berosus, and Ocellus Lucanus?’ said Guy, smiling.
                ‘There, Amy,’ said Charles, ‘if he has the Vicar among his ancient books, you
                    need not pity him.’
                ‘It is like Philip,’ said Laura; ‘he was brought up on the old standard books,
                    instead of his time being frittered away on the host of idle modern ones.’
                ‘He was free to concentrate his attention on Sir Charles Grandison,’ said
                    Charles.
                ‘How could any one do so?’ said Guy. ‘How could any one have any sympathy with
                    such a piece of self-satisfaction?’
                
                ‘Who could? Eh, Laura?’ said Charles.
                ‘I never read it,’ said Laura, suspecting malice.
                ‘What is your opinion of perfect heroes?’ continued Charles.
                ‘Here comes one,’ whispered Amy to her brother, blushing at her piece of
                    naughtiness, as Philip Morville entered the room.
                After the first greetings, and inquiries after his sister, whom he had been
                    visiting, Laura told him what they had been saying of the advantage of a scanty
                    range of reading.
                ‘True,’ said Philip; ‘I have often been struck by finding how ignorant people
                    are, even of Shakspeare; and I believe the blame chiefly rests on the cheap
                    rubbish in which Charlie is nearly walled up there.’
                ‘Ay,’ said Charles, ‘and who haunts that rubbish at the beginning of every month?
                    I suppose to act as pioneer, though whether any one but Laura heeds his
                    warnings, remains to be proved.’
                ‘Laura does heed?’ asked Philip, well pleased.
                ‘I made her read me the part of Dombey that hurts women's feelings most, just to
                    see if she would go on—the part about little Paul—and I declare, I shall think
                    the worse of her ever after—she was so stony-hearted, that to this day she does
                    not know whether he is dead or alive.’
                ‘I can't quite say I don't know whether he lived or died,’ said Laura, ‘for I
                    found Amy in a state that alarmed me, crying in the green-house, and I was very
                    glad to find it was nothing worse than little Paul.’
                ‘I wish you would have read it,’ said Amy; and looking shyly at Guy, she
                    added—‘Wont you?’
                ‘Well done, Amy!’ said Charles. ‘In the very face of the young man's
                    companion!’
                ‘Philip does not really think it wrong,’ said Amy.
                ‘No,’ said Philip; ‘those books open fields of thought, and as their principles
                    are negative, they are not likely to hurt a person well armed with the
                    truth.’
                
                ‘Meaning,’ said Charles, ‘that Guy and Laura have your gracious permission to
                    read Dombey.’
                ‘When Laura has a cold or toothache.’
                ‘And I?’ said Guy.
                ‘I am not sure about the expediency for you,’ said Philip; ‘it would be a pity to
                    begin with Dickens, when there is so much of a higher grade equally new to you.
                    I suppose you do not understand Italian.’
                ‘No,’ said Guy, abruptly, and his dark eyebrows contracted.
                Philip went on. ‘If you did, I should not recommend you the translation of I promessi Sposi, one of the most beautiful books in
                    any language. You have it in English, I think, Laura.’
                Laura fetched it; Guy, with a constrained ‘thank you,’ was going to take it up,
                    rather as if he was putting a force upon himself, when Philip more quickly took
                    the first volume, and eagerly turned over the pages—‘I can't stand this,’ he
                    said, ‘where is the original?’
                It was soon produced; and Philip, finding the beautiful history of Fra
                    Cristoforo, began to translate it fluently and with an admirable choice of
                    language that silenced Charles's attempts to interrupt and criticise. Soon Guy,
                    who had at first lent only reluctant attention, was entirely absorbed, his
                    eyebrows relaxed, a look of earnest interest succeeded, his countenance
                    softened, and when Fra Cristoforo humbled himself, exchanged forgiveness, and
                    received il pane del perdono, tears hung on
                    his eye-lashes.
                The chapter was finished, and with a smothered exclamation of admiration, he
                    joined the others in begging Philip to proceed. The story thus read was very
                    unlike what it had been to Laura and Amy, when they puzzled it out as an Italian
                    lesson, or to Charles, when he carelessly tossed over the translation in search
                    of Don Abbondio's humours; and thus between reading and conversation, the
                    morning passed very agreeably.
                At luncheon, Mr. Edmonstone asked Philip to come and spend a day or two at
                    Hollywell, and he accepted the invitation for
                    the next week. ‘I will make Thorndale drive me out if you will give him a
                    dinner.’
                ‘Of course, of course,’ said Mr. Edmonstone, ‘we shall be delighted. We were
                    talking of asking him, a day or two ago; eh, mamma?’
                ‘Thank you,’ said Philip; ‘a family party is an especial treat to him,’ laying a
                    particular stress on the word ‘family party,’ and looking at his aunt.
                At that moment the butler came in, saying, ‘Sir Guy's servant is come, and has
                    brought the horse, sir.’
                ‘Deloraine come!’ cried Guy, springing up. ‘Where?’
                ‘At the door, sir.’
                Guy darted out, Mr. Edmonstone following. In another instant, however, Guy put
                    his head into the room again. ‘Mrs. Edmonstone, won't you come and see him?
                    Philip, you have not seen Deloraine.’
                Off he rushed, and the others were just in time to see the cordial look of honest
                    gladness with which William, the groom, received his young master's greeting,
                    and the delighted recognition between Guy, Bustle, and Deloraine. Guy had no
                    attention for anything else till he had heard how they had prospered on the
                    journey; and then he turned to claim his friend's admiration for the beautiful
                    chestnut, his grandfather's birthday present. The ladies admired with
                    earnestness that compensated for want of knowledge, the gentlemen with greater
                    science and discrimination; indeed, Philip, as a connoisseur, could not but, for
                    the sake of his own reputation, discover something to criticise. Guy's brows
                    drew together again, and his eyes glanced as if he was much inclined to resent
                    the remarks, as attacks at once on Deloraine and on his grandfather; but he said
                    nothing, and presently went to the stable with Mr. Edmonstone, to see about the
                    horse's accommodations. Philip stood in the hall with the ladies.
                ‘So I perceive you have dropped the title already,’ observed he, to Laura.
                ‘Yes,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone, replying for her daughter, ‘it seemed to give him
                    pain, by reminding him of his loss, and he was
                    so strange and forlorn just at first, that we were glad to do what we could to
                    make him feel himself more at home.’
                ‘Then you get on pretty well now?’
                The reply was in chorus with variations—‘Oh, excellently!’
                ‘He is so entertaining,’ said Charlotte.
                ‘He sings so beautifully,’ said Amabel.
                ‘He is so right minded,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone.
                ‘So very well informed,’ said Laura.
                Then it all began again.
                ‘He plays chess so well,’ said Amy.
                ‘Bustle is such a dear dog,’ said Charlotte.
                ‘He is so attentive to Charlie,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone, going into the
                    drawing-room to her son.
                ‘Papa says he will make up for the faults of all his ancestors,’ said Amabel.
                ‘His music! oh, his music!’ said Laura.
                ‘Philip,’ said Charlotte, earnestly, ‘you really should learn to like him.’
                ‘Learn, impertinent little puss?’ said Philip, smiling, ‘why should I not like
                    him?’
                ‘I was sure you would try,’ said Charlotte, impressively.
                ‘Is it hard
                        ,
                        ?
                    ’ said Amy
                        ?
                        .
                     ‘But, oh, Philip! you could not help liking his singing.’
                ‘I never heard such a splendid voice,’ said Laura; ‘so clear and powerful, and
                    yet so wonderfully sweet in the low soft notes. And a very fine ear: he has a
                    real talent for music.’
                ‘Ah! inherited, poor fellow,’ said Philip, compassionately.
                ‘Do you pity him for it?’ said Amy, smiling.
                ‘Do you forget?’ said Philip. ‘I would not advise you to make much of this talent
                    in public; it is too much a badge of his descent.’
                ‘Mamma did not think so,’ said Amy. ‘She thought it a pity he should not learn
                    regularly, with such a talent; so the other day, when Mr. Radford was giving us a lesson, she asked Guy just to sing up and
                    down the scale. I never saw anything so funny as old Mr. Radford's surprise, it
                    was almost like the music-lesson in La Figlia del
                        Reggimento; he started, and looked at Guy, and seemed in a perfect
                    transport, and now Guy is to take regular lessons.
                ‘Indeed.’
                ‘But do you really mean,’ said Laura, ‘that if your mother had been a musician's
                    daughter, and you had inherited her talent, that you would be ashamed of
                    it.’
                ‘Indeed, Laura,’ said Philip, with a smile, ‘I am equally far from guessing what
                    I should do if my mother had been anything but what she was, as from guessing
                    what I should do if I had a talent for music.’
                Mrs. Edmonstone here called her daughters to get ready for their walk, as she
                    intended to go to East Hill, and they might as well walk with Philip as far as
                    their roads lay together.
                Philip and Laura walked on by themselves, a little in advance of the others.
                    Laura was very anxious to arrive at a right understanding of her cousin's
                    opinion of Guy.
                ‘I am sure there is much to like in him,’ she said.
                ‘There is; but is it the highest praise to say there is much to like? People are
                    not so cautious when they accept a man in
                    toto.’
                ‘Then, do you not?’
                Philip's answer was— 
                        
                            ‘He who the lion's whelp has nurst,
                            At home with fostering hand,
                            Finds it a gentle thing at first,
                            Obedient to command.’
                        
                    
                ‘Do you think him a lion's whelp?’
                ‘I am afraid I saw the lion just now in his flashing eyes and contracted brow.
                    There is an impatience of advice, a vehemence of manner that I can hardly deem
                    satisfactory. I do not speak from prejudice, for I think highly of his candour,
                    warmth of heart, and desire to do right; but
                    from all I have seen, I should not venture as yet to place much dependence on
                    his steadiness of character or command of temper.’
                ‘He seems to have been very fond of his grandfather, in spite of his severity. He
                    is but just beginning to brighten up a little.’
                ‘Yes; his disposition is very affectionate,—almost a misfortune to one so
                    isolated from family ties. He showed remarkably well at Redclyffe, the other
                    day; boyish of course, and without much self-command, but very amiably. It is
                    very well for him that he is removed from thence, for all the people idolize him
                    to such a degree that they could not fail to spoil him.’
                ‘It would be a great pity if he went wrong.’
                ‘Great, for he has many admirable qualities, but still they are just what persons
                    are too apt to fancy compensation for faults. I never heard that any of his
                    family, except perhaps that unhappy old Hugh, were deficient in frankness and
                    generosity, and therefore these do not satisfy me. Observe, I am not condemning
                    him; I wish to be perfectly just; all I say is, that I do not trust him till I
                    have seen him tried.’
                Laura did not answer, she was disappointed; yet there was a justice and
                    guardedness in what Philip said, that made it impossible to gainsay it, and she
                    was pleased with his confidence. She thought how cool and prudent he was, and
                    how grieved she should be if Guy justified his doubts; and so they walked on in
                    such silence as is perhaps the strongest proof of intimacy. She was the first to
                    speak, led to do so by an expression of sadness about her cousin's mouth. ‘What
                    are you thinking of, Philip?’
                ‘Of Locksley Hall. There is nonsense, there is affectation in that, Laura; there
                    is scarcely poetry, but there is power, for there is truth.’
                ‘Of Locksley Hall! I thought you were at Stylehurst.’
                ‘So I was, but the one brings the other.’
                
                ‘I suppose you went to Stylehurst while you were at St. Mildred's. Did Margaret
                    take you there?’
                ‘Margaret? Not she; she is too much engaged with her book-club, and her soirées,
                    and her societies of every sort and kind.’
                ‘How did you get on with the Doctor?’
                ‘I saw as little of him as I could, and was still more convinced that he does not
                    know what conversation is. Hem!’ Philip gave a deep sigh. ‘No; the only thing to
                    be done at St. Mildred's is to walk across the moors to Stylehurst. It is a
                    strange thing to leave that tumult of gossip, and novelty, and hardness, and to
                    enter on that quiet autumnal old world, with the yellow leaves floating silently
                    down, just as they used to do, and the atmosphere of stillness round the green
                    church yard.’
                ‘Gossip!’ repeated Laura. ‘Surely not with Margaret?’
                ‘Literary scientific gossip is worse than gossip in a primary sense, without
                    pretension.’
                ‘I am glad you had Stylehurst to go to. How was the old sexton's wife?’
                ‘Very well; trotting about on her pattens as merrily as ever.’
                ‘Did you go into the garden?’
                ‘Yes; Fanny's ivy has entirely covered the south wall, and the acacia is so tall
                    and spreading, that I longed to have the pruning of it. Old Will keeps
                    everything in its former state.’
                They talked on of the old home, till the stern bitter look of regret and censure
                    had faded from his brow, and given way to a softened melancholy expression.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER IV.
                
                    
                        
                            
                                A fig for all dactyls, a fig for all spondees,
                                A fig for all dunces and dominie grandees.
                            
                        
                        SCOTT.
                    
                
                ‘HOW glad I am!’ exclaimed Guy, entering the drawing-room.
                ‘Wherefore?’ inquired Charles.
                ‘I thought I was too late, and I am very glad to find no one arrived, and Mr. and
                    Mrs. Edmonstone not come down.’
                ‘But where have you been?’
                ‘I lost my way on the top of the down; I fancied some one told me there was a
                    view of the sea to be had there.’
                ‘And can't you exist without a view of the sea?’
                Guy laughed. ‘Everything looks so dull—it is as if the view was dead or
                    imprisoned—walled up by wood and hill, and wanting that living ripple, heaving
                    and struggling.’
                ‘And your fine rocks,’ said Laura.
                ‘I wish you could see the Shag-stone,—a great island mass, sloping on one side,
                    precipitous on the other, with the spray dashing on it. If you see it from ever
                    so far off, there is still that white foam coming and going—a glancing speck,
                    like the light in an eye.’
                ‘Hark! a carriage.’
                ‘The young man and the young man's companion,’ said Charles.
                ‘How can you?’ said Laura. ‘What would any one suppose Mr. Thorndale to be?’
                
                ‘Not Philip's valet,’ said Charles, ‘if it is true that no man is a hero to his
                        valley-de-sham; whereas, what is not Philip to the Honourable James
                    Thorndale?’
                ‘Philip, Alexander, and Bucephalus into the bargain,’ suggested Amy, in her
                    demure, frightened whisper, sending all but Laura into a fit of laughter, the
                    harder to check because the steps of the parties concerned were heard
                    approaching.
                Mr. Thorndale was a quiet individual, one of those of whom there is least to be
                    said, so complete a gentleman that it would have been an insult to call him
                    gentlemanlike; agreeable and clever rather than otherwise, good-looking, with a
                    high-bred air about him, so that it always seemed strange that he did not make
                    more impression.
                A ring at the front-door almost immediately followed their arrival.
                ‘Encore?’ asked Philip, looking at Laura with a sort of displeased surprise.
                ‘Unfortunately, yes,’ said Laura, drawing aside.
                ‘One of my uncle's family parties,’ said Philip. ‘I wish I had not brought
                    Thorndale. Laura, what is to be done to prevent the tittering that always takes
                    place when Amy and those Harpers are together?’
                ‘Some game?’ said Laura. He signed approval; but she had time to say no more, for
                    her father and mother came down, and some more guests entered.
                It was just such a party that continually grew up at Hollywell, for Mr.
                    Edmonstone was so fond of inviting, that his wife never knew in the morning how
                    many would assemble at her table in the evening. But she was used to it, and too
                    good a manager even to be called so. She liked to see her husband enjoy himself
                    in his good-natured, open-hearted way. The change was good for Charles, and thus
                    it did very well, and there were few houses in the neighbourhood more popular
                    than Hollywell.
                The guests this evening were Maurice de Courcy, a wild young Irishman, all noise
                    and nonsense, a great favourite with his
                    cousin, Mr. Edmonstone; two Miss Harpers, daughters of the late clergyman,
                    good-natured, second-rate girls; Dr. Mayerne, Charles's kind old physician, the
                    friend and much-loved counsellor at Hollywell, and the present vicar, Mr. Ross,
                    with his daughter Mary.
                Mary Ross was the greatest friend that the Miss Edmonstones possessed, though,
                    she being five-and-twenty, they had not arrived at perceiving that they were on
                    the equal terms of youngladyhood.
                She had lost her mother early, and had owed a great deal to the kindness of Mrs.
                    Edmonstone, as she grew up among her numerous elder brothers. She had no
                    girlhood; she was a boy till fourteen, and then a woman, and she was scarcely
                    altered since the epoch of that transition, the same in likings, tastes, and
                    duties. ‘Papa’ was all the world to her, and pleasing him had much the same
                    meaning now as then; her brothers were like playfellows; her delights were still
                    a lesson in Greek from papa, a school-children's feast, a game at play, a new
                    book. It was only a pity other people did not stand still too. ‘Papa,’ indeed,
                    had never grown sensibly older since the year of her mother's death: but her
                    brothers were whiskered men, with all the cares of the world, and no holidays;
                    the school-girls went out to service, and were as a last year's brood to an old
                    hen; the very children she had fondled were young ladies, as old, to all intents
                    and purposes, as herself, and here were even Laura and Amy Edmonstone fallen
                    into that bad habit of growing up! though little Amy had still much of the
                    kitten in her composition, and could play as well as Charlotte or Mary herself,
                    when they had the garden to themselves.
                Mary took great pains to amuse Charles, always walking to see him in the worst
                    weather, when she thought other visitors likely to fail, and chatting with him
                    as if she was the idlest person in the world, though the quantity she did at
                    home and in the parish would be too amazing to
                    be recorded. Spirited and decided, without superfluous fears and fineries, she
                    had a tall firm robust figure, and a rosy good-natured face, with a manner that,
                    though perfectly feminine, had in it an air of strength and determination.
                Hollywell was a hamlet, two miles from the parish church of East-hill, and Mary
                    had thus seen very little of the Edmonstone's guest, having only been introduced
                    to him after church on Sunday. The pleasure on which Charles chiefly reckoned
                    for that evening was the talking him over with her when the ladies came in from
                    the dining-room. The Miss Harpers, with his sisters, gathered round the piano,
                    and Mrs. Edmonstone sat at Charles's feet, while Mary knitted and talked.
                ‘So you get on well with him?’
                ‘He is one of those people who are never in the way, and yet you never can forgot
                    their presence,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone.
                ‘His manners are quite the pink of courtesy,’ said Mary.
                ‘Like his grandfather's,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone; ‘that old-school deference and
                    attention is very chivalrous, and sits prettily and quaintly on his high spirits
                    and animation; I hope it will not wear off.’
                ‘A vain hope,’ said Charles. ‘At present he is like that German myth, Kaspar
                    Hauser, who lived till twenty in a cellar. It is lucky for mamma that, in his
                    green state, he is courtly instead of bearish.’
                ‘Lucky for you, too, Charlie; he spoils you finely.’
                ‘He has the rare perfection of letting me know my own mind. I never knew what it
                    was to have my own way before.’
                ‘Is that your complaint, Charlie? What next?’ said Mary.
                ‘So you think I have my way, do you, Mary? That is all envy, you see, and very
                    much misplaced. Could you guess what a conflict it is every time I am helped up
                    that mountain of a staircase, or the slope of my sofa is altered? Last time
                    Philip stayed here, every step cost an
                    argument, till at last, through sheer exhaustion, I left myself a dead weight on
                    his hands, to be carried up by main strength. And after all, he is such a great,
                    strong fellow, that I am afraid he did not mind it; so next time I
                        crutched myself down alone, and I hope that did provoke
                    him.’
                ‘Sir Guy is so kind that I am ashamed,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone. ‘It seems as if we
                    had brought him for the sole purpose of waiting on Charles.’
                ‘Half his heart is in his horse,’ said Charles. ‘Never had man such delight in
                    the ‘brute creation.’’
                ‘They have been his chief playfellows,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone. ‘The chief of his
                    time was spent in wandering in the woods or on the beach, watching them and
                    their ways.’
                ‘I fairly dreamt of that Elysium of his last night,’ said Charles: ‘a swamp half
                    frozen on a winter's night, full of wild ducks. Here, Charlotte, come and tell
                    Mary the roll of Guy's pets.’
                Charlotte began. ‘There was the sea-gull, and the hedgehog, and the fox, and the
                    badger, and the jay, and the monkey, that he bought because it was dying, and
                    cured it, only it died the next winter, and a toad, and a raven, and a squirrel,
                    and—’
                ‘That will do, Charlotte.’
                ‘Oh! but Mary has not heard the names of all his dogs. And Mary, he has cured
                    Bustle of hunting my Puss. We held them up to each other, and Puss hissed
                    horribly, but Bustle did not mind it a bit; and the other day, when Charles
                    tried to set him at her, he would not take the least notice.’
                ‘Now, Charlotte,’ said Charles, waving his hand, with a provoking mock
                    politeness, ‘have the goodness to return to your friends.’
                Tea over, Laura proposed the game of definitions, which was carried on with great
                    spirit for more than an hour. It was hard to say which made most fun, Maurice,
                    Charles, or Guy; the last no longer a spectator, but an active contributor to
                        the sport. When the break up came, Mary and
                    Amabel were standing over the table together, collecting the scattered papers,
                    and observing that it had been very good fun. ‘Some so characteristic,’ said
                    Amy, ‘such as Maurice's definition of happiness,—a row at Dublin.’
                ‘Some were very deep, though,’ said Mary; ‘if it is not treason, I should like to
                    make out whose that other was of happiness.’
                ‘You mean this,’ said Amy: ‘‘Gleams from a brighter world, too soon eclipsed or
                    forfeited.’ I thought it was Philip's, but it is Sir Guy's writing. How very
                    sad! I should not like to think so. And he was so merry all the time! This is
                    his, too, I see; this one about riches being the freight for which the traveller
                    is responsible.’
                ‘There is a great deal of character in them,’ said Mary. ‘I should not have
                    wondered at any of us, penniless people, philosophizing in the fox and grapes
                    style, but, for him, and at his age—’
                ‘He has been brought up so as to make the theory of wisdom come early,’ said
                    Philip, who was nearer than she thought.
                ‘Is that intended for disparagement?’ she asked quickly.
                ‘I think very highly of him; he has a great deal of sense and right feeling,’ was
                    Philip's sedate answer; and he turned away to say some last words to Mr.
                    Thorndale.
                The Rosses were the last to depart, Mary in cloak and clogs, while Mr. Edmonstone
                    lamented that it was in vain to offer the carriage; and Mary laughed, and
                    thanked, and said the walk home with Papa was the greatest of treats in the
                    frost and star-light.
                ‘Don't I pity you, who always go out to dinner in a carriage!’ were her last
                    words to Laura.
                ‘Well, Guy,’ said Charlotte, ‘how do you like it?’
                ‘Very much, indeed. It was very pleasant.’
                ‘You are getting into the fairy ring,’ said Laura, smiling.
                ‘Ay,’ he said, smiling too; ‘but it does not turn to tinsel. Would it if I saw more of it?’ and he looked
                    at Mrs. Edmonstone.
                ‘It would be no compliment to ourselves to say so,’ she answered.
                ‘I suppose tinsel or gold depends on the using,’ said he, thoughtfully; ‘there
                    are some lumps of solid gold among those papers, I am sure, one, in particular,
                    about a trifle. May I see that again—I mean— 
                        
                            Little things
                            On little wings
                            Bear little souls to heaven.’
                        
                    
                ‘Oh! that was only a quotation,’ said Amy, turning over the definitions again
                    with him, and laughing at some of the most amusing; while, in the mean time,
                    Philip went to help Laura, who was putting some books away in the ante-room.
                ‘Yes, Laura,’ he said, ‘he has thought, mind, and soul; he is no mere
                    rattle.’
                ‘No indeed. Who could help seeing his superiority over Maurice?’
                ‘If only he does not pervert his gifts, and if it is not all talk. I don't like
                    such excess of openness about his feelings; it is too like talking for talking's
                    sake.’
                ‘Mamma says it in the transparency of youthfulness. You know he has never been at
                    school; so his thoughts come out in security of sympathy, without fear of being
                    laughed at. But it is very late. Good night.’
                The frost turned to rain the next morning, and the torrents streamed against the
                    window, seeming to have a kind of attraction for Philip and Guy, who stood
                    watching them.
                Guy wondered if the floods would be out at Redclyffe and his cousins were
                    interested by his description of the sudden, angry rush of the mountain streams,
                    eddying fiercely along, bearing with them tree and rock, while the valleys
                    became lakes, and the little mounds islets; and the trees looked strangely out
                    of proportion when only their branches were
                    visible. ‘Oh! a great flood is famous fun,’ said he.
                ‘Surely,’ said Philip, ‘I have heard a legend of your being nearly drowned in
                    some flood.’
                ‘Yes,’ said Guy, ‘I had a tolerable ducking.’
                ‘Oh, tell us about it!’ said Amy.
                ‘Ay! I have a curiosity to hear a personal experience of drowning,’ said Charles.
                    ‘Come, begin at the beginning.’
                ‘I was standing watching the tremendous force of the stream, when I saw an
                    unhappy old ram floating along, bleating so piteously, and making such absurd,
                    helpless struggles, that I could not help pulling off my coat and jumping in
                    after him. It was very foolish, for the stream was too strong—I was two years
                    younger then. Moreover, the beast was very heavy, and not at all grateful for
                    any kind intentions, and I found myself sailing off to the sea, with the
                    prospect of a good many rocks before long; but just then an old tree stretched
                    out its friendly arms through the water; it stopped the sheep, and I caught hold
                    of the branches, and managed to scramble up, while my friend got entangled in
                    them with his wool’— 
                        
                            ‘Omne quum Proteus pecus egit altos
                            Visere montes,’
                        
                     quoted Philip.
                
                        
                            ‘Ovium et summâ genus hæsit ulmo,’
                        
                     added Guy.
                ‘Ovium,’ exclaimed Philip, with a face of
                    horror. ‘Don't you know that O in Ovis is short? Do anything but take liberties with Horace!’
                ‘Get out of the tree first, Guy,’ said Charles, ‘for at present your history
                    seems likely to end with a long ohone!’
                ‘Well, Triton—not Proteus—came to the rescue at last,’ said Guy, laughing; ‘I
                    could not stir, and the tree bent so frightfully with the current that I
                    expected every minute we should all go together; so I had nothing for it but to halloo as loud as I could. No
                    one heard but Triton, the old Newfoundland dog, who presently came swimming up,
                    so eager to help, poor fellow, that I thought he would have throttled me, or
                    hurt himself in the branches. I took off my handkerchief and threw it to him,
                    telling him to take it to Arnaud, who I knew would understand it as a signal of
                    distress.’
                ‘Did he? How long had you to wait?’
                ‘I don't know—it seemed long enough before a most welcome boat appeared, with
                    some men in it, and Triton in an agony. They would never have found me but for
                    him, for my voice was gone; indeed the next thing I remember was lying on the
                    grass in the park, and Markham saying, ‘Well, sir, if you do wish to throw away
                    your life, let it be for something better worth saving than Farmer Holt's
                    vicious old ram!’
                ‘In the language of the great Mr. Toots,’ said Charles. ‘I am afraid you got very
                    wet.’
                ‘Were you the worse for it?’ said Amy.
                ‘Not in the least. I was so glad to hear it was Holt's! for you must know that I
                    had behaved very ill to Farmer Holt. I had been very angry at his beating our
                    old hound, for, as he thought, worrying his sheep; not that Dart ever did,
                    though.
                ‘And was the ram saved?’
                ‘Yes, and next time I saw it, it nearly knocked me down.’
                ‘Would you do it again?’ said Philip.
                ‘I don't know.’
                ‘I hope you had a medal from the Humane Society,’ said Charles.
                ‘That would have been more proper for Triton.’
                ‘Yours should have been an ovation,’ said Charles, cutting the o
                    absurdly short, and looking at Philip.
                Laura saw that the spirit of teazing was strong in Charles this morning and
                    suspected that he wanted to stir up what he called the deadly feud, and she
                    hastened to change the conversation by saying, ‘You quite impressed Guy with
                    your translation of Fra Cristoforo.’
                
                ‘Indeed I must thank you for recommending the book,’ said Guy; ‘how beautiful it
                    is!’
                ‘I am glad you entered into it,’ said Philip; ‘it has every quality that a
                    fiction ought to have.’
                ‘I never read anything equal to the repentance of the nameless man.’
                ‘Is he your favourite character?’ said Philip, looking at him attentively.
                ‘O no—of course not—though he is so grand that one thinks most about him, but no
                    one can be cared about as much as Lucia.’
                ‘Lucia! She never struck me as more than a well-painted peasant girl,’ said
                    Philip.
                ‘Oh!’ cried Guy, indignantly; then, controlling himself, he continued: ‘She
                    pretends to no more than she is, but she shows the beauty of goodness in itself
                    in a—a—wonderful way. And think of the power of those words of hers over that
                    gloomy desperate man.’
                ‘Your sympathy with the Innominato again,’ said Philip.
                Every subject seemed to excite Guy to a dangerous extent, as Laura thought, and
                    she turned to Philip to ask if he would not read to them again.
                ‘I brought this book on purpose,’ said Philip. ‘I wished to read you a
                    description of that print from Raffaelle—you know it—the Madonna di San
                    Sisto?’
                ‘The one you brought to show us?’ said Amy, ‘with the two little angels?’
                ‘Yes, here is the description,’ and he began to read—
                ‘Dwell on the form of the Child, more than human in grandeur, seated on the arms
                    of the Blessed Virgin as on an august throne. Note the tokens of divine grace,
                    His ardent eyes, what a spirit, what a countenance is His; yet His very
                    resemblance to His mother denotes sufficiently that He is of us and takes care
                    for us. Beneath are two figures adoring, each in their own manner. On one side
                    is a pontiff, on the other a virgin, each a most sweet and solemn example, the
                    one of aged, the other of maidenly piety and reverence. Between, are two winged boys, evidently presenting a wonderful
                    pattern of childlike piety. Their eyes, indeed, are not turned towards the
                    Virgin, but both in face and gesture, they show how careless of themselves they
                    are in the presence of God.’
                All were struck by the description. Guy did not speak at first, but the solemn
                    expression of his face showed how he felt its power and reverence. Philip asked
                    if they would like to hear more, and Charles assented: Amy worked, Laura went on
                    with her perspective, and Guy sat by her side, making concentric circles with
                    her compasses, or when she wanted them he tormented her parallel ruler, or cut
                    the pencils, never letting his fingers rest except at some high or deep passage,
                    or when some interesting discussion arose. All were surprised when luncheon time
                    arrived; Charles held out his hand for the book; it was given with a slight
                    smile, and he exclaimed ‘Latin! I thought you were translating. Is it your own
                    property?’
                ‘Yes.’
                ‘Is it very tough? I would read it, if any one would read it with me.’
                ‘Do you mean me?’ said Guy; ‘I should like it very much, but you have seen how
                    little Latin I know.’
                ‘That is the very thing,’ said Charles; ‘that Ovis of yours was music; I would have made you a Knight of the
                    Golden Fleece on the spot. Tutors I could get by shoals, but a fellow-dunce is
                    inestimable.’
                ‘It is a bargain, then,’ said Guy; ‘if Philip has done with the book and will
                    lend it to us.’
                The luncheon bell rang, and they all adjourned to the dining-room. Mr. Edmonstone
                    came in when luncheon was nearly over, rejoicing that his letters were done, but
                    then he looked disconsolately from the window, and pitied the weather. ‘Nothing
                    for it but billiards. People might say it was nonsense to have a billiard-table
                    in such a house, but for his part he found there was no getting through a wet
                    day without them. Philip must beat him as usual, and Guy might have one of the
                    young ladies to make a fourth.’
                
                ‘Thank you,’ said Guy, ‘but I don't play.’
                ‘Not play—eh? Well, we will teach you in the spinning of a ball, and I'll have my
                    little Amy to help me against you and Philip.’
                ‘No, thank you,’ repeated Guy, colouring, ‘I am under a promise.’
                ‘Ha! Eh? What? Your grandfather? He could see no harm in such play as this. For
                    nothing, you understand. You did not suppose I meant anything else?’
                ‘O no, of course not,’ eagerly replied Guy; ‘but it is impossible for me to play,
                    thank you. I have promised never even to look on at a game at billiards.’
                ‘Ah, poor man, he had too much reason,’ uttered Mr. Edmonstone to himself, but
                    catching a warning look from his wife, he became suddenly silent. Guy,
                    meanwhile, sat looking lost in sad thoughts, till, rousing himself, he
                    exclaimed, ‘Don't let me prevent you.’
                Mr. Edmonstone needed but little persuasion, and carried Philip off to the
                    billiard-table in the front hall.
                ‘O, I am so glad!’ cried Charlotte, who had, within the last week, learnt Guy's
                    value as a playfellow. ‘Now you will never go to those stupid billiards, but I
                    shall have you always, every rainy day. Come and have a real good game at ball
                    on the stairs.’
                She already had hold of his hand, and would have dragged him off at once, had he
                    not waited to help Charles back to his sofa; and in the meantime she tried in
                    vain to persuade her more constant playmate, Amabel, to join the game. Poor
                    little Amy regretted the being obliged to refuse, as she listened to the merry
                    sounds and bouncing balls, sighing more than once at having turned into a
                    grown-up young lady; while Philip observed to Laura, who was officiating as
                    billiard-marker, that Guy was still a mere boy.
                The fates favoured Amy at last, for about half after three, the billiards were
                    interrupted, and Philip, pronouncing the rain to be almost over, invited Guy to
                    take a walk, and they set out in a very grey wet mist, while Charlotte and Amy commenced a vigorous game at
                    battledore and shuttle-cock.
                The grey mist had faded into twilight, and twilight into something like night,
                    when Charles was crossing the hall, with the aid of Amy's arm, Charlotte
                    carrying the crutch behind him, and Mrs. Edmonstone helping Laura with her
                    perspective apparatus, all on their way to dress for dinner; the door opened and
                    in came the two Morvilles. Guy, without even stopping to take off his great
                    coat, ran at once upstairs, and the next moment the door of his room was shut
                    with a bang that shook the house, and made them all start and look at Philip for
                    explanation.
                ‘Redclyffe temper,’ said he, coolly, with a half-smile curling his short upper
                    lip.
                ‘What have you been doing to him?’ said Charles.
                ‘Nothing. At least nothing worthy of such ire. I only entered on the subject of
                    his Oxford life, and advised him to prepare for it, for his education has as yet
                    been a mere farce. He used to go two or three days in the week to one Potts, a
                    self-educated genius—a sort of superior writing-master at the Moorworth
                    commercial school. Of course, though it is no fault of his, poor fellow, he is
                    hardly up to the fifth form, and he must make the most of his time, if he is not
                    to be plucked. I set all this before him as gently as I could, for I knew with
                    whom I had to deal, yet you see how it is.’
                ‘What did he say?’ asked Charles.
                ‘He said nothing, so far I give him credit; but he strode on furiously for the
                    last half mile, and this explosion is the finale. I am very sorry for him, poor
                    boy; I beg no further notice may be taken of it. Don't you want an arm,
                    Charlie?’
                ‘No, thank you,’ answered Charles, with a little surliness.
                ‘You had better. It really is too much for Amy,’ said Philip, making a move as if
                    to take possession of him, as he arrived at the foot of the stairs.
                
                ‘Like the camellia, I suppose,’ he replied; and taking his other crutch from
                    Charlotte, he began determinedly to ascend without assistance, resolved to keep
                    Philip a prisoner below him as long as he could, and enjoying the notion of
                    chafing him by the delay. Certainly teazing Philip was a dear delight to
                    Charles, though it was all on trust, as, if he succeeded, his cousin never
                    betrayed his annoyance by look or sign.
                About a quarter of an hour after, there was a knock at the dressing-room door.
                    ‘Come in,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone, looking up from her letter-writing, and Guy
                    made his appearance, looking very downcast.
                ‘I am come,’ he said, ‘to ask pardon for the disturbance I made just now. I was
                    so foolish as to be irritated at Philip's manner, when he was giving me some
                    good advice, and I am very sorry.’
                ‘What has happened to your lip?’ she exclaimed.
                He put his handkerchief to it. ‘Is it bleeding still? It is a trick of mine to
                    bite my lip when I am vexed. It seems to help to keep down words. There! I have
                    given myself a mark of this hateful outbreak.’
                He looked very unhappy, more so, Mrs. Edmonstone thought, than the actual offence
                    required. ‘You have only failed in part,’ she said. ‘It was a victory to keep
                    down words.’
                ‘The feeling is the thing,’ said Guy; ‘besides, I showed it plainly
                    enough without speaking.’
                ‘It is not easy to take advice from one so little your elder,’ began Mrs.
                    Edmonstone, but he interrupted her. ‘It was not the advice. That was very good;
                    I—’ but he spoke with an effort,—‘I am obliged to him. It was—no, I won't say
                    what,’ he added, his eyes kindling, then changing in a moment to a sorrowful,
                    resolute tone, ‘Yes, but I will, and then I shall make myself
                    thoroughly ashamed. It was his veiled assumption of superiority, his contempt
                    for all I have been taught. Just as if he had not every right to despise me,
                    with his talent and scholarship, after such egregious mistakes as I had made in
                    the morning. I gave him little reason to think
                    highly of my attainments; but let him slight me as much as he pleases, he must
                    not slight those who taught me. It was not Mr. Potts' fault.’
                Even the name could not spoil the spirited sound of the speech, and Mrs.
                    Edmonstone was full of sympathy. ‘You must remember,’ she said, ‘that in the
                    eyes of a man brought up at public school, nothing compensates for the want of
                    the regular classical education. I have no doubt it was very provoking.’
                ‘I don't want to be excused, thank you,’ said Guy. ‘Oh! I am grieved; for I
                    thought the worst of my temper had been subdued. After all that has passed—all I
                    felt—I thought it impossible. Is there no hope for —’ He covered his face with
                    his hands, then recovering and turning to Mrs. Edmonstone, he said, ‘It is
                    encroaching too much on your kindness to come here and trouble you with my
                    confessions.’
                ‘No, no, indeed,’ said she, earnestly. ‘Remember how we agreed that you should
                    come to me like one of my own children. And, indeed, I do not see why you need
                    grieve in this despairing way, for you almost overcame the fit of anger; and
                    perhaps you were off your guard because the trial came in an unexpected
                    way?’
                ‘It did, it did,’ he said, eagerly; ‘I don't mind being told point blank that I
                    am a dunce, but that Mr. Potts—nay, by implication—my grandfather should be set
                    at nought in that cool— But here I am again!’ said he, checking himself in the
                    midst of his vehemence; ‘he did not mean that, of course. I have no one to blame
                    but myself.’
                ‘I am sure,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone, ‘that if you always treat your failings in
                    this way, you must subdue them at last.’
                ‘It is all failing, and resolving, and failing again!’ said Guy.
                ‘Yes, but the failures become slighter and less frequent, and the end is
                    victory.’
                ‘The end victory!’ repeated Guy, in a musing tone, as he stood leaning against
                    the mantelshelf.
                
                ‘Yes, to all who persevere and seek for help,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone; and he
                    raised his eyes and fixed them on her with an earnest look that surprised her,
                    for it was almost as if the hope came home to him as something new. At that
                    moment, however, she was called away, and directly after a voice in the next
                    room exclaimed, ‘Are you there, Guy? I want an arm!’ while he for the first time
                    perceived that Charles's door was ajar.
                Charles thought all this a great fuss about nothing, indeed he was glad to find
                    there was anyone who had no patience with Philip; and in his usual mischievous
                    manner, totally reckless of the fearful evil of interfering with the influence
                    for good which it was to be hoped that Philip might exert over Guy, he spoke
                    thus: ‘I begin to think the world must be more docile than I have been disposed
                    to give it credit for. How a certain cousin of ours has escaped numerous
                    delicate hints to mind his own business is to me one of the wonders of the
                    world.’
                ‘No one better deserves that his advice should be followed,’ said Guy, with some
                    constraint.
                ‘An additional reason against it,’ said Charles. ‘Plague on that bell! I meant to
                    have broken through your formalities and had a candid opinion of Don Philip
                    before it rang.’
                ‘Then I am glad of it; I could hardly have given you a candid opinion just at
                    present.’
                Charles was vexed; but he consoled himself by thinking that Guy did not yet feel
                    himself out of his leading-strings, and was still on his good behaviour. After
                    such a flash as this there was no fear, but there was that in him which would
                    create mischief and disturbance enough. Charles was well principled at the
                    bottom, and would have shrunk with horror had it been set before him how
                    dangerous might be the effect of destroying the chance of a friendship between
                    Guy and the only person whose guidance was likely to be beneficial to him; but
                    his idle, unoccupied life, and habit of only
                    thinking of things as they concerned his immediate amusement, made him ready to
                    do anything for the sake of opposition to Philip, and enjoy the vague idea of
                    excitement to be derived from anxiety about his father's ward, whom at the same
                    time he regarded with increased liking as he became certain that what he called
                    the Puritan spirit was not native to him.
                At dinner-time, Guy was as silent as on his first arrival, and there would have
                    been very little conversation had not the other gentleman talked politics,
                    Philip leading the discussion to bear upon the duties and prospects of landed
                    proprietors, and dwelling on the extent of their opportunities for doing good.
                    He tried to get Guy's attention, by speaking of Redclyffe, of the large circle
                    influenced by the head of the Morville family, and of the hopes entertained by
                    Lord Thorndale that this power would prove a valuable support to the rightful
                    cause. He spoke in vain; the young heir of Redclyffe made answers as brief,
                    absent, and indifferent, as if all this concerned him no more than the Emperor
                    of Morocco, and Philip, mentally pronouncing him sullen, turned to address
                    himself to Laura.
                As soon as the ladies had left the dining-room, Guy roused himself, and began by
                    saying to his guardian that he was afraid he was very deficient in classical
                    knowledge; that he found be must work hard before going to Oxford; and asked
                    whether there was any tutor in the neighbourhood to whom he could apply.
                Mr. Edmonstone opened his eyes, as much amazed as if Guy had asked if there was
                    any executioner in the neighbourhood who could cut off his head. Philip was no
                    less surprised, but he held his peace, thinking it was well Guy had sense enough
                    to propose it voluntarily, as he would have suggested it to his uncle as soon as
                    there was an opportunity of doing so in private. As soon as Mr. Edmonstone had
                    recollected himself, and pronounced it to be exceedingly proper, &c.;, they
                    entered into a discussion on the neighbouring
                    curates, and came at last to a resolution that Philip should see whether Mr.
                    Lascelles, a curate of Broadstone, and an old schoolfellow of his own, would
                    read with Guy a few hours in every week.
                After this was settled, Guy looked relieved, though he was not himself all the
                    evening, and sat in his old corner between the plants and the window, where he
                    read a grave book, instead of talking, singing, or finishing his volume of ‘Ten
                    Thousand a Year.’ Charlotte was all this time ill at ease. She looked from Guy
                    to Philip, from Philip to Guy; she shut her mouth as if she was forming some
                    great resolve, then coloured, and looked confused, rushing into the conversation
                    with something more mal-àpropos than usual, as
                    if on purpose to appear at her ease. At last, just before her bed-time, when the
                    tea was coming in, Mrs. Edmonstone engaged with that, Laura reading, Amy
                    clearing Charles's little table, and Philip helping Mr. Edmonstone to unravel
                    the confused accounts of the late cheating bailiff, Guy suddenly found her
                    standing by him, perusing his face with all the power of her great blue eyes.
                    She started as he looked up, and put her face into Amabel's great myrtle as if
                    she would make it appear that she was smelling to it.
                ‘Well, Charlotte?’ said he, and the sound of his voice made her speak, but in a
                    frightened, embarrassed whisper.
                ‘Guy—Guy—Oh! I beg your pardon, but I wanted to—’
                ‘Well, what?’ said he, kindly.
                ‘I wanted to make sure that you are not angry with Philip. You don't mean to keep
                    up the feud, do you?’
                ‘Feud?—I hope not,’ said Guy, too much in earnest to be diverted with her
                    lecture. ‘I am very much obliged to him.’
                ‘Are you really?’ said Charlotte, her head a little on one side. ‘I thought he
                    had been scolding you.’
                
                Scolding was so very inappropriate to Philip's calm, argumentative way of
                    advising, that it became impossible not to laugh.
                ‘Not scolding, then?’ said Charlotte. ‘You are too nearly grown up for that, but
                    telling you to learn, and being tiresome.’
                ‘I was so foolish as to be provoked at first,’ answered Guy; ‘but I hope I have
                    thought better of it, and am going to act upon it.’
                Charlotte opened her eyes wider than ever, but in the midst of her amazement Mrs.
                    Edmonstone called to Guy to quit his leafy screen and come to tea.
                Philip was to return to Broadstone the next day, and as Mrs. Edmonstone had some
                    errands there that would occupy her longer than Charles liked to wait in the
                    carriage, it was settled that Philip should drive her there in the pony-phaeton,
                    and Guy accompany them and drive back, thus having an opportunity of seeing
                    Philip's print of the ‘Madonna di San Sisto,’ returning some calls, and being
                    introduced to Mr. Lascelles, whilst she was shopping. They appointed an hour and
                    place of meeting, and kept to it, after which Mrs. Edmonstone took Guy with her
                    to call on Mrs. Deane, the wife of the colonel.
                It was currently believed among the young Edmonstones, that Mamma and Mrs. Deane
                    never met without talking over Mr. Morville's good qualities, and the present
                    visit proved no exception. Mrs. Deane, a kind, open-hearted, elderly lady was
                    very fond of Mr. Morville, and proud of him as a credit to the regiment; and she
                    told several traits of his excellent judgment, kindness of heart, and power of
                    leading to the right course. Mrs. Edmonstone listened, and replied with delight;
                    and no less pleasure and admiration were seen reflected in her young friend's
                    radiant face.
                Mrs. Edmonstone's first question, as they set out on their homeward drive, was,
                    whether they had seen Mr. Lascelles?
                
                ‘Yes,’ said Guy, ‘I am to begin to-morrow, and go to him every Monday and
                    Thursday.’
                ‘That is prompt.’
                ‘Ah! I have no time to lose; besides I have been leading too smooth a life with
                    you. I want something unpleasant to keep me in order. Something famously
                    horrid,’ repeated he, smacking the whip with a relish, as if he would have
                    applied that if he could have found nothing else.
                ‘You think you live too smoothly at Hollywell,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone, hardly
                    able, with all her respect for his good impulses, to help laughing at this
                    strange boy.
                ‘Yes. Happy, thoughtless, vehement; that is what your kindness makes me. Was it
                    not a proof, that I must needs fly out at such a petty provocation?’
                ‘I should not have thought it such a very exciting life; certainly not such as is
                    usually said to lead to thoughtlessness; and we have been even quieter than
                    usual since you came.’
                ‘Ah, you don't know what stuff I am made of,’ said Guy, gravely, though smiling;
                    ‘your own home party is enough to do me harm; it is so exceedingly
                    pleasant.’
                ‘Pleasant things do not necessarily do harm.’
                ‘Not to you; not to people who are not easily unsettled; but when I go up-stairs,
                    after a talking, merry evening, such as the night before last, I find that I
                    have enjoyed it too much; I am all abroad; I can hardly fix my thoughts, and I
                    don't know what to do, since here I must be, and I can't either be silent or sit
                    up in my own room.’
                ‘Certainly not,’ said she, smiling; ‘there are duties of society which you owe
                    even to us dangerous people.’
                ‘No, no: don't misunderstand me. The fault is in myself. If it was not for that,
                    I could learn nothing but good,’ said Guy, speaking very eagerly, distressed at
                    her answer.
                ‘I believe I understand you,’ said she, marvelling at the serious, ascetic
                    temper, coupled with the very high animal
                    spirits. ‘For your comfort, I believe the unsettled feeling you complain of is
                    chiefly the effect of novelty. You have led so very retired a life, that a
                    lively family party is to you what dissipation would be to other people; and, as
                    you must meet with the world some time or other, it is better the first
                    encounter with should be in this comparatively innocent form. Go on watching
                    yourself, and it will do you no harm.’
                Yes, but if I find it does me harm? It would be cowardly to run away, and
                    resistance should be from within. Yet, on the other hand, there is the duty of
                    giving up, wrenching oneself from all that has temptation in it.’
                ‘There is nothing,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone, ‘that has no temptation in it; but I
                    should think the rule was plain. If a duty such as that of living among us for
                    the present, and making yourself moderately agreeable, involves temptations,
                    they must be met and battled from within. In the same way, your position in
                    society, with all its duties, could not be laid aside because it is full of
                    trial. Those who do such things are fainthearted, and fail in trust in Him who
                    fixed their station, and finds room for them to deny themselves in ‘the trivial
                    round and common task.’ It is pleasure involving no duty that should be given
                    up, if we find it liable to lead us astray.’
                ‘I see,’ answered Guy, musingly; ‘and this reading comes naturally, and is just
                    what I wanted to keep the pleasant things from getting a full hold of me. I
                    ought to have thought of it sooner, instead of dawdling a whole month in
                    idleness. Then all this would not have happened. I hope it will be very
                    tough.’
                ‘You have no great love for Latin and Greek?’
                ‘Oh!’ cried Guy, eagerly, ‘to be sure I delight in Homer and the Georgics, and
                    plenty more. What splendid things there are in these old fellows! But, I never
                    liked the drudgery part of the affair; and now if I am to be set to work to be
                    accurate, and to get up all the grammar and the
                    Greek roots, it will be horrid enough in all conscience.’
                He groaned as deeply as if he had not been congratulating himself just before on
                    the difficulty.
                ‘Who was your tutor?’ asked Mrs. Edmonstone.
                ‘Mr. Potts,’ said Guy. ‘He is a very clever man; he had a common grammar-school
                    education, but he struggled on—taught himself a great deal—and at last thought
                    it great promotion to be a teacher at the Commercial Academy, as they call it,
                    at Moorworth, where Markham's nephews went to school. He is very clever, I
                    assure you, and very patient of the hard, wearing life he must have of it there;
                    and oh! so enjoying a new book, or an afternoon to himself. When I was about
                    eight or nine, I began with him, riding into Moorworth three times in a week;
                    and I have gone on ever since. I am sure he has done the best he could for me;
                    and he made the readings very pleasant by his own enjoyment. If Philip had known
                    the difficulties that man has struggled through, and his beautiful temper,
                    persevering in doing his best and being contented, I am sure he could never have
                    spoken contemptuously of him.’
                ‘I am sure he would not,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone; ‘all he meant was, that a person
                    without a university education cannot tell what the requirements are to which a
                    man must come up in these days.’
                ‘Ah!’ said Guy, laughing, ‘how I wished Mr. Potts had been there to have enjoyed
                    listening to Philip and Mr. Lascelles discussing some new lexicon, digging down
                    for roots of words, and quoting passages of obscure Greek poets at such a rate,
                    that if my eyes had been shut I could have thought them two withered old
                    students in spectacles and snuff-coloured coats.’
                ‘Philip was in his element,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone, smiling.
                ‘Really,’ proceeded Guy, with animation, ‘the more I hear and see of Philip, the
                    more I wonder. What a choice collection of
                    books he has—so many of them school prizes, and how beautifully bound.’
                ‘Ah! that is one of Philip's peculiar ways. With all his prudence and his love of
                    books, I believe he would not buy one unless he had a reasonable prospect of
                    being able to dress it handsomely. Did you see the print?’
                ‘Yes that I did. What glorious loveliness! There is nothing that does it justice
                    but the description in the lectures. Oh I forgot you have not heard it. You must
                    let me read it to you by-and-by. Those two little angels, what faces they have!
                    Perfect innocence—one full of reasoning, the other of unreasoning
                    adoration!’
                ‘I see it!’ suddenly exclaimed Mrs. Edmonstone; ‘I see what you are like in one
                    of your looks, not by any means, in all—it is to the larger of those two
                    angels.’
                ‘Very seldom, I should guess,’ said Guy; and sinking his voice, as if he was
                    communicating a most painful fact, he added, ‘My real likeness is old Sir Hugh's
                    portrait at home. But what were we saying? Oh! about Philip. How nice those
                    stories were of Mrs. Deane's.’
                ‘She is very fond of him.’
                ‘To have won so much esteem and admiration, already from strangers with no
                    prejudice in his favour.—It must be entirely his own doing; and well it may!
                    Every time one hears of him, something comes out to make him seem more
                    admirable. You are laughing at me, and I own it is presumptuous to praise; but I
                    did not mean to praise, only to admire.’
                ‘I like very much to hear my nephew praised; I was only smiling at your
                    enthusiastic way.’
                ‘I only wonder I am not more enthusiastic,’ said Guy. ‘I suppose it is his plain
                    good sense that drives away that sort of feeling, for he is as near heroism in
                    the way of self-sacrifice as a man can be in these days.’
                
                ‘Poor Philip! if disappointment can make a hero, it has fallen to his share. Ah!
                    Guy, you are brightening and looking like one of my young ladies in hopes of a
                    tale of true love crossed, but it was only love of a sister.’
                ‘The sister for whom he gave up so much?’
                ‘Yes, his sister Margaret. She was eight or nine years older, very handsome, very
                    clever, a good deal like him—a pattern elder sister; indeed, she brought him up
                    in great part after his mother died, and he was devoted to her. I do believe it
                    made the sacrifice of his prospects quite easy to him, to know it was for her
                    sake, that she would live on at Stylehurst, and the change be softened to her.
                    Then came Fanny's illness, and that lead to the marriage with Dr. Henley. It was
                    just what no one could object to; he is a respectable man in full practice, with
                    a large income; but he is much older than she is, not her equal in mind or
                    cultivation, and, though I hardly like to say so, not at all a religious man. At
                    any rate, Margaret Morville was one of the last people one could bear to see
                    marry for the sake of an establishment.’
                ‘Could her brother do nothing?’
                ‘He expostulated with all his might; but at nineteen he could do little with a
                    determined sister of twenty-seven; and the very truth and power of his
                    remonstrance must have made it leave a sting. Poor fellow, I believe he suffered
                    terribly—just as he had lost Fanny, too, which he felt very deeply, for she was
                    a very sweet creature, and he was very fond of her. It was like losing both
                    sisters and home at once.’
                ‘Has he not just been staying with Mrs. Henley?’
                ‘Yes. There was never any coolness, as people call it. He is the one thing she
                    loves and is proud of. They always correspond, and he often stays with her; but
                    he owns to disliking the Doctor, and I don't think he has much comfort in
                    Margaret herself, for he always comes back more grave and stern than he went.
                        Her house, with all her good wishes, can be
                    no home to him; and so we try to make Hollywell supply the place of Stylehurst
                    as well as we can.’
                ‘How glad he must be to have you to comfort him!’
                ‘Philip? Oh no. He was always reserved; open to no one but Margaret, not even to
                    his father; and since her marriage he has shut himself up within himself more
                    than ever. It has, at least I think it is this that has given him a severity, an
                    unwillingness to trust, which I believe is often the consequence of a great
                    disappointment either in love or in friendship.’
                ‘Thank you for telling me,’ said Guy; ‘I shall understand him better, and look up
                    to him more. Oh! it is a cruel thing to find that what one loves is, or has not
                    been, all one thought. What must he not have gone through!’
                Mrs. Edmonstone was well pleased to have given so much assistance to Guy's
                    sincere desire to become attached to his cousin, one of the most favourable
                    signs in the character that was winning so much upon her.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER V.
                
                    
                        
                            
                                A cloud was o'er my childhood's dream,
                                I sat in solitude;
                                I know not how—I know not why,
                                But round my soul all drearily
                                There was a silent shroud.
                            
                        
                        THOUGHTS IN PAST YEARS.
                    
                
                MRS. EDMONSTONE was anxious to hear Mr. Lascelles' opinion of
                    his pupil, and in time she learnt that he thought Sir Guy had very good
                    abilities, and a fair amount of general information; but that his classical
                    knowledge was far from accurate, and mathematics had been greatly neglected. He
                    had been encouraged to think his work done when he had gathered the general
                    meaning of a passage, or translated it into English verse, spirited and flowing,
                    but often further from the original than he or his tutor could perceive. He had
                    never been taught to work, at least as other boys study, and great application
                    would be requisite to bring his attainments to a level with those of far less
                    clever boys educated at a public school.
                Mr. Lascelles told him so at first; but as there were no reflections on his
                    grandfather, or on Mr. Potts, Guy's lip did not suffer, and he only asked how
                    many hours a day he ought to read. ‘Three,’ said Mr. Lascelles, with a due
                    regard to a probable want of habits of application; but then, remembering how
                    much was undone, he added, that ‘it ought to be four or more, if possible.’
                ‘Four it shall be,’ said Guy; ‘five if I can.’
                His whole strength of will was set to accomplish these four hours, taking them
                    before and after 
                        break-
                        breakfast
                     fast, working hard all the morning
                    till the last hour before luncheon, when he came to read the lectures on poetry
                    with Charles. Here, for the first time, it appeared that Charles had so entirely
                    ceased to consider him as company, as to domineer over him like his own
                    family.
                Used as Guy had been to an active out-of-doors life, and now turned back to
                    authors he had read long ago, to fight his way through the construction of their
                    language, not excusing himself one jot of the difficulty, nor turning aside from
                    one mountain over which his own efforts could carry him, he found his work as
                    tough and tedious as he could wish or fear, and by the end of the morning was
                    thoroughly fagged. Then would have been the refreshing time for recreation in
                    that pleasant idling-place, the Hollywell drawing-room. Any other time of day
                    would have suited Charles as well for the reading, but he liked to take the hour
                    at noon, and never perceived that this made all the difference to his friend of
                    a toil or a pleasure. Now and then Guy gave tremendous yawns; and once when
                    Charles told him he was very stupid, proposed a different time; but as Charles
                    objected, he yielded as submissively as the rest of the household were
                    accustomed to do.
                To watch Guy was one of Charles's chief amusements, and he rejoiced greatly in
                    the prospect of hearing his history of his first dinner-party. Mr., Mrs. and
                    Miss Edmonstone, and Sir Guy Morville, were invited to dine with Mr. and Mrs.
                    Brownlow. Mr. Edmonstone was delighted as usual with any opportunity of seeing
                    his neighbours; Guy looked as if he did not know whether he liked the notion or
                    not; Laura told him it would be very absurd and stupid, but there would be some
                    good music, and Charles ordered her to say no more, that he might have the
                    account, the next morning, from a fresh and unprejudiced mind.
                The next morning's question was, of course, ‘How did you like your party?’
                ‘O, it was great fun.’ Guy's favourite answer was caught up in the midst, as Laura replied, ‘It was just what parties always
                    are.’
                ‘Come, let us have the history. Who handed who in to dinner? I hope Guy had Mrs.
                    Brownlow.’
                ‘Oh, no,’ said Laura; ‘we had both the honourables.’
                ‘Not Philip?’
                ‘No,’ said Guy; ‘the fidus Achetes was without his pious Æneas.’
                ‘Very good, Guy,’ said Charles, enjoying the laugh.
                ‘I could not help thinking of it,’ said Guy, rather apologising, ‘when I was
                    watching Thorndale's manner; it is such an imitation of Philip; looking droller,
                    I think, in his absence, than in his presence. I wonder if he is conscious of
                    it.’
                ‘It does not suit him at all,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone; ‘because he has no natural
                    dignity.’
                ‘A man ought to be six foot one, person and mind, to suit with that grand,
                    sedate, gracious way of Philip's,’ said Guy.
                ‘There's Guy's measure of Philip's intellect,’ said Charles; ‘just six foot one
                    inch.’
                ‘As much more than other people's twice his height,’ said Guy.
                ‘Who was your neighbour, Laura?’ asked Amy.
                ‘Dr. Mayerne; I was very glad of him, to keep off those hunting friends of Mr.
                    Brownlow, who never ask anything but if one has been to the races, and if one
                    likes balls.’
                ‘And how did Mrs. Brownlow behave?’ said Charles.
                ‘She is a wonderful woman,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone, in her quiet way; and Guy with
                    an expression between drollery and simplicity, said, ‘Then there aren't many
                    like her.’
                ‘I hope not,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone.
                ‘Is she really a lady?’
                ‘Philip commonly calls her ‘that woman,’’ said Charles. ‘He has never got over
                    her one night classing him with his ‘young man’ and myself, as three of the
                    shyest monkeys she ever came across.’
                
                ‘She wont say so of Maurice,’ said Laura, as they recovered the laugh.
                ‘I heard her deluding some young lady by saying he was the eldest son,’ said Mrs.
                    Edmonstone.
                ‘Mamma!’ cried Amy, ‘could she have thought so?’
                ‘I put in a gentle hint on Lord de Courcy's existence, to which she answered, in
                    her quick way, ‘O ay, I forgot; but then he is the second, and that's the next
                    thing.’’
                ‘If you could but have heard the stories she and Maurice were telling each
                    other!’ said Guy. ‘He was playing her off, I believe; for whatever she told, he
                    capped with something more wonderful. Is she really a lady?’
                ‘By birth,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone. ‘It is only her high spirits and small judgment
                    that make her so absurd.’
                ‘How loud she is, too!’ said Laura. ‘What was all that about horses, Guy?’
                ‘She was saying she drove two such spirited horses, that all the grooms were
                    afraid of them; and when she wanted to take out her little boy, Mr. Brownlow
                    said ‘You may do as you like my dear, but I wont have my son's neck broken,
                    whatever you do with your own.’ So Maurice answered by declaring he knew a lady
                    who drove, not two, but four-in-hand, and when the leaders turned round and
                    looked her in the face, gave a little nod, and said, ‘I'm obliged for your
                    civility.’’
                ‘Oh! I wish I had heard that,’ cried Laura.
                ‘Did you hear her saying she smoked cigars?’
                Everyone cried out with horror or laughter.
                ‘Of course Maurice told a story of a lady who had a cigar-case hanging to her
                    chatelaine, and always took one to refresh her after a ball.’
                Guy was interrupted by the announcement of his horse, and rode off at once to Mr.
                    Lascelles.
                On his return he went straight to the drawing-room, where Mrs. Edmonstone was
                    reading to Charles, and abruptly exclaimed,—
                
                ‘I told you wrong. She only said she had smoked one cigar.’ Then perceiving that
                    he was interrupting, he added, ‘I beg your pardon,’ and went away.
                The next evening, on coming in from a solitary skating, he found the younger
                    party in the drawing-room, Charles entertaining the Miss Harpers with the story
                    of the cigars. He hastily interposed—
                ‘I told you it was but one.’
                ‘Ay, tried one, and went on. She was preparing an order for Havannah.’
                ‘I thought I told you I repeated the conversation incorrectly.’
                ‘If it is not the letter, it is the spirit,’ said Charles, vexed at the
                    interference with his sport of amazing the Miss Harpers with outrageous stories
                    of Mrs. Brownlow.
                ‘It is just like her,’ said one of them. ‘I could believe anything of Mrs.
                    Brownlow.’
                ‘You must not believe this,’ said Guy, gently. ‘I repeated incorrectly what had
                    better have been forgotten, and I must beg my foolish exaggeration to go no
                    further.’
                Charles became sullenly silent; Guy stood thoughtful; and Laura and Amabel could
                    not easily sustain the conversation till the visitors took their leave.
                ‘Here's a pother!’ grumbled Charles, as soon as they were gone.
                ‘I beg your pardon for spoiling your story,’ said Guy; ‘but it was my fault, so I
                    was obliged to interfere.’
                ‘Bosh!’ said Charles. ‘Who cares whether she smoked one or twenty? She is Mrs.
                    Brownlow still.’
                ‘The point is, what was truth?’ said Laura.
                ‘Straining at gnats,’ said Charles.
                ‘Little wings?’ said Guy, glancing at Amabel.
                ‘Have it your won way,’ said Charles, throwing his head back; ‘they must be
                    little souls, indeed that stick at such trash.’
                Guy's brows were contracted with vexation, but Laura looked up very prettily,
                    saying—
                
                ‘Never mind him. We must all honour you for doing such an unpleasant thing.’
                ‘You will recommend him favourably to Philip,’ growled Charles.
                There was no reply, and presently Guy asked whether he would go up to dress.
                    Having no other way of showing his displeasure, he refused, and remained nursing
                    his ill humour, till he forgot how slight the offence had been, and worked
                    himself into a sort of insane desire—half mischievous, half revengeful—to be as
                    provoking as he could in his turn.
                Seldom had he been more contrary, as his old nurse was wont to call
                    it. No one could please him, and Guy was not allowed to do anything for him.
                    Whatever he said was intended to rub on some sore place in Guy's mind. His
                    mother and Laura's signs made him worse, for he had the pleasure of teazing them
                    also; but Guy endured it all with perfect temper, and he grew more cross at his
                    failure; yet, from force of habit, at bed-time, he found himself on the stairs
                    with Guy's arm supporting him.
                ‘Good night,’ said Guy, when he had landed him in his own room.
                ‘Good night,’ said Charles; ‘I tried hard to poke up the lion to-night, but I see
                    it wont do.’
                This plea of trying experiments was neither absolutely true nor false; but it
                    restored Charles to himself, by saving a confession that he had been out of
                    temper, and enabling him to treat with him wonted indifference the
                    expostulations of father, mother, and Laura.
                Now that the idea of ‘poking up the lion’ had once occurred, it became his great
                    occupation to attempt it. He wanted to see some evidence of the fiery temper,
                    and it was a new sport to try to rouse it; one, too, which had the greater
                    relish, as it kept the rest of the family on thorns.
                He would argue against his real opinion, talk against his better sense, take the
                    wrong side, and say much that was very far from his true sentiments. Guy could not understand at first, and was quite
                    confounded at some of the views he espoused, till Laura came to his help,
                    greatly irritating her brother by hints that he was not in earnest. Next time
                    she could speak to Guy alone, she told him he must not take all Charles said
                    literally.
                ‘I thought he could hardly mean it; but why should he talk so?’
                ‘I can't excuse him; I know it is very wrong, and at the expense of truth, and it
                    is very disagreeable of him,—I wish he would not; but he always does what he
                    likes, and it is one of his amusements, so we must bear with him, poor
                    fellow.’
                From that time Guy seemed to have no trouble in reining in his temper in arguing
                    with Charles, except once, when the lion was fairly roused by something that
                    sounded like a sneer about King Charles I.
                His whole face changed, his hazel eye gleamed with light like an eagle's, and he
                    started up, exclaiming,—
                ‘You did not mean that!’
                ‘Ask Strafford,’ answered Charles, coolly, startled, but satisfied to have found
                    the vulnerable point.
                ‘Ungenerous, unmanly,’ said Guy, his voice low, but quivering with indignation;
                    ‘ungenerous to reproach him with what he so bitterly repented. Could not his
                    penitence, could not his own blood —’ but as he spoke, the gleam of wrath faded,
                    the flush deepened on the cheek, and he left the room.
                ‘Ha!’ soliloquized Charles, ‘I've done it! I could fancy his wrath something
                    terrific when it was once well up. I didn't know what was coming next; but I
                    believe he has got himself pretty well in hand. It is playing with edge tools;
                    and now I have been favoured with one flash of the Morville eye, I'll let him
                    alone; but it ryled me to be treated as something beneath his
                    anger, like a woman or a child.’
                In about ten minutes, Guy came back: ‘I am sorry that I was hasty just now,’ said
                    he.
                
                ‘I did not know you had such personal feelings about King Charles.’
                ‘If you would do me a kindness,’ proceeded Guy, ‘you would just say you did not
                    mean it. I know you do not, but if you would only say so.’
                ‘I am glad you have the wit to see I have too much taste to be a roundhead.’
                ‘Thank you,’ said Guy; ‘I hope I shall know your jest from your earnest another
                    time. Only if you would oblige me, you would never jest again about King
                    Charles.’
                His brow darkened into a stern, grave expression, so entirely in earnest, that
                    Charles, though making no answer, could not do otherwise than feel compliance
                    unavoidable. Charles had never been so entirely conquered, yet, strange to say,
                    he was not, as usual, rendered sullen.
                At night, when Guy had taken him to his room, he paused and said,—‘You are sure
                    that you have forgiven me?’
                ‘What! you have not forgotten that yet?’ said Charles.
                ‘Of course not.’
                ‘I am sorry you bear so much malice,’ said Charles, smiling.
                ‘What are you imagining?’ cried Guy. ‘It was my own part I was remembering, as I
                    must, you know.’
                Charles did not choose to betray that he did not see the necessity.
                ‘I thought King Charles's wrongs were rankling. I only spoke as taking liberties
                    with a friend.’
                ‘Yes,’ said Guy, thoughtfully, ‘it may be foolish, but I do not feel as if one
                    could do so with King Charles. He is too near home; he suffered to much from
                    scoffs and railings; his heart was too tender, his repentance too deep for his
                    friends to add one word even in jest to the heap of reproach. How one would have
                    loved him!’ proceeded Guy, wrapped up in his own thoughts,—‘loved him for the
                    gentleness so little accordant with the rude
                    times and the part he had to act—served him with half like a knight's devotion
                    to his lady-love, half like devotion to a saint, as Montrose did— 
                        
                            ‘Great, good, and just, could I but rate
                            My grief, and thy too rigid fate,
                            I'd weep the world in such a strain,
                            As it should deluge once again.’
                        
                     ‘And, oh!’ cried he, with sudden vehemence, ‘how one would have fought for
                    him!’
                ‘You would!’ said Charles. ‘I should like to see you and Deloraine charging at
                    the head of Prince Rupert's troopers.’
                ‘I beg your pardon,’ said Guy, suddenly recalled, and colouring deeply; ‘I
                    believe I forgot where I was, and have treated you to one of my old dreams in my
                    boatings at home. You may quiz me as much as you please to-morrow. Good
                    night.’
                ‘It was a rhapsody!’ thought Charles; ‘yes it was. I wonder I don't laugh at it;
                    but I was naturally carried along. Fancy that! He did it so naturally; in fact,
                    it was all from the bottom of his heart, and I could not quiz him,—no, no more
                    than Montrose himself. He is a strange article! But he keeps one awake, which is
                    more than most people do!
                        
                        ’
                    
                Guy was indeed likely to keep every one awake just then; for Mr. Edmonstone was
                    going to take him out hunting for the first time, and he was half wild about it.
                    The day came, and half an hour before Mr. Edmonstone was ready, Guy was walking
                    about the hall, checking many an incipient whistle, and telling every one that
                    he was beforehand with the world, for he had read one extra hour yesterday, and
                    had got through the others before breakfast. Laura thought it very true that, as
                    Philip said, he was only a boy, and moralized to Charlotte on his being the same
                    age as herself—very nearly eighteen. Mrs. Edmonstone told Charles it was a treat
                    to see any one so happy, and when he began to chafe at the delay, did her best
                    to beguile the time, but without much success.
                    Guy had ever learned to wait patiently, and had a custom of marching up and
                    down, and listening with his head thrown back, or, as Charles used to call it,
                    ‘prancing in the hall.’
                If Mrs. Edmonstone's patience was tried by the preparation for the hunt in the
                    morning, it was no less her lot to hear of it in the evening. Guy came home in
                    the highest spirits, pouring out his delight to every one, with animation and
                    power of description giving all he said a charm. The pleasure did not lose by
                    repetition; he was more engrossed by it every time; and no one could be more
                    pleased with his ardour than Mr. Edmonstone, who, proud of him and his riding,
                    gave a sigh to past hopes of poor Charles, and promoted the hunting with far
                    more glee that he had promoted the reading.
                The Redclyffe groom, William, whose surname of Robinson was entirely forgotten in
                    the appellation of William of Deloraine, was as proud of Sir Guy as Mr.
                    Edmonstone could be; but made representations to his master that he must not
                    hunt Deloraine two days in the week, and ride him to Broadstone two more. Guy
                    then walked to Broadstone; but William was no better pleased, for he thought the
                    credit of Redclyffe compromised, and punished him by reporting Deloraine not fit
                    to be used next hunting-day. Mr. Edmonstone perceived that Guy ought to have
                    another hunter; Philip heard of one for sale, and after due inspection all
                    admired—even William, who had begun by remarking that there might be so many
                    screw-looses about a horse, that a man did not know what to be at with them.
                Philip, who was conducting the negotiation, came to dine at Hollywell to settle
                    the particulars. Guy was in a most eager state; and they and Mr. Edmonstone
                    talked so long about horses, that they sent Charles to sleep; his mother began
                    to read, and the two elder girls fell into a low, mysterious confabulation of
                    their own till they were startled by a question from Philip as to what could
                    engross them so deeply.
                
                ‘It was,’ said Laura, ‘a banshee story in Eveleen de Courcy's last letter.’
                ‘I never like telling ghost stories to people who don't believe in them,’ half
                    whispered Amabel to her sister.
                ‘Do you believe them?’ asked Philip, looking full at her.
                ‘Now I wont have little Amy asked the sort of question she most dislikes,’
                    interposed Laura; ‘I had rather ask if you laugh at us for thinking many ghost
                    stories inexplicable?’
                ‘Certainly not.’
                ‘The universal belief could hardly be kept up without some grounds,’ said
                    Guy.
                ‘That would apply as well to fairies,’ said Philip.
                ‘Every one has an unexplained ghost story,’ said Amy.
                ‘Yes,’ said Philip; ‘but I would give something to meet any one whose ghost story
                    did not rest on the testimony of a friend's cousin's cousin, a very
                    strong-minded person.’
                ‘I can't imagine how a person who has seen a ghost could ever speak of it,’ said
                    Amy.
                ‘Did you not tell us a story of pixies at Redclyffe?’ said Laura.
                ‘O yes; the people there believe in them firmly. Jonas Ledbury heard them
                    laughing one night when he could not get the gate open,’ said Guy.
                ‘Ah! You are the authority for ghosts,’ said Philip.
                ‘I forgot that,’ said Laura; ‘I wonder we never asked you about your Redclyffe
                    ghost.’
                ‘You look as if you had seen it yourself,’ said Philip.
                ‘You have not?’ exclaimed Amy, almost frightened.
                ‘Come, let us have the whole story,’ said Philip. ‘Was it your own reflection in
                    the glass? was it old sir Hugh? or was it the murderer of Becket? Come, the
                    ladies are both ready to scream at the right moment. Never mind about giving him
                    a cocked-hat, for with whom may you take a
                    liberty, if not with an ancestral ghost of your own?’
                Amy could not think how Philip could have gone on all this time; perhaps it was
                    because he was not watching how Guy's colour varied, how he bit his lip; and at
                    last his eyes seemed to grow dark in the middle, and to sparkle with fire, as
                    with a low, deep tone, like distant thunder, conveying a tremendous force of
                    suppressed passion, he exclaimed, ‘Beware of trifling—’ then breaking off
                    hastened out of the room.
                ‘What's the matter?’ asked Mr. Edmonstone, startled from his nap; and his wife
                    looked up anxiously, but returned to her book as her nephew replied,
                    ‘Nothing.’
                ‘How could you, Philip?’ said Laura.
                ‘I really believe he has seen it!’ said Amy, in a startled whisper.
                ‘He has felt it, Amy—the Morville spirit,’ said Philip.
                ‘It is a great pity you spoke of putting a cocked-hat to it,’ said Laura; ‘he
                    must have suspected us of telling you what happened about Mrs. Brownlow.’
                ‘And are you going to do it now?’ said her sister in a tone of remonstrance.
                ‘I think Philip should hear it!’ said Laura; and she proceeded to relate the
                    story. She was glad to see that her cousin was struck with it; he admired this
                    care to maintain strict truth, and even opened a memorandum-book—the sight of
                    which Charles dreaded—and read the following extract: ‘Do not think of one
                    falsity as harmless, and another as slight, and another as unintended. Cast them
                    all aside. They may be light and accidental, but they are an ugly soot from the
                    smoke of the pit, for all that; and it is better that our hearts should be swept
                    clean of them, without over care as to which is the largest or blackest.’
                Laura and Amy were much pleased; but he went on to regret that such excellent
                    dispositions should be coupled with such vehemence of character and that unhappy temper. Amy was glad that her sister
                    ventured to hint that he might be more cautious in avoiding collisions.
                ‘I am cautious,’ replied he, quickly and sternly; ‘I am not to be told of the
                    necessity of exercising forbearance with this poor boy; but it is impossible to
                    reckon on all the points on which he is sensitive.’
                ‘He is sensitive,’ said Laura. ‘I don't mean only in temper, but in everything. I
                    wonder if it is part of his musical temperament to be as keenly alive to all
                    around, as his ear is to every note. A bright day, a fine view, is such real
                    happiness to him; he dwells on every beauty of Redclyffe with such affection;
                    and then, when he reads, Charles says it is like going over the story again
                    himself to watch his face act it in that unconscious manner.’
                ‘He makes all the characters so real in talking them over,’ said Amy, ‘and he
                    does not always know how they will end before they begin.’
                ‘I should think it hardly safe for so excitable a mind to dwell much on the world
                    of fiction,’ said Philip.
                ‘Nothing has affected him so much as Sintram,’ said Laura. ‘I never saw anything
                    like it. He took it up by chance, and stood reading it while all those strange
                    expressions began to flit over his face, and at last he fairly cried over it so
                    much, that he was obliged to fly out of the room. How often he has read it I
                    cannot tell; I believe he has bought one for himself, and it is as if the
                    engraving had a fascination for him; he stands looking at it as if he was in a
                    dream.’
                ‘He is a great mystery,’ said Amy.
                ‘All men are mysterious,’ said Philip, ‘but he not more than others, though he
                    may appear so to you, because you have not had much experience, and also because
                    most of the men you have seen have been rounded into uniformity like marbles,
                    their sharp angles rubbed off against each other at school.’
                ‘Would it be better if there were more sharp angles?’ said Laura, thus setting on foot a discussion on
                    public schools, on which Philip had, of course, a great deal to say.
                Amy's kind little heart was meanwhile grieving for Guy, and longing to see him
                    return, but he did not come till after Philip's departure. He looked pale and
                    mournful, his hair hanging loose and disordered, and her terror was excited lest
                    he might actually have seen his ancestor's ghost, which, in spite of her desire
                    to believe in ghosts in general, she did not by any means wish to have
                    authenticated. He was surprised and a good deal vexed to find Philip gone, but
                    he said hardly anything, and it was soon bed-time. When Charles took his arm, he
                    exclaimed, on finding his sleeve wet—‘What can you have been doing?’
                ‘Walking up and down under the wall,’ replied Guy, with some reluctance.
                ‘What, in the rain?’
                ‘I don't know, perhaps it was.’
                Amy, who was just behind, carrying the crutch, dreaded Charles's making any
                    allusion to Sintram's wild locks and evening wanderings, but ever since the
                    outburst about King Charles, the desire to tease and irritate Guy had
                    ceased.
                They parted at the dressing-room door, and as Guy bade her good night, he pushed
                    back the damp hair that had fallen across his forehead, saying, ‘I am sorry I
                    disturbed your evening. I will tell you the meaning of it another time.’
                ‘He has certainly seen the ghost!’ said silly little Amy, as she shut herself
                    into her own room in such a fit of vague ‘eerie’ fright, that it was not till
                    she had knelt down, and with her face hidden in her hands, said her evening
                    prayer, that she could venture to lift up her head and look into the dark
                    corners of the room.
                ‘Another time!’ Her heart throbbed at the promise.
                The next afternoon, as she and Laura were fighting with a refractory branch of
                    westeria which had been torn down by the wind, and refused to return to its place, Guy, who had been with his tutor, came
                    in from the stable-yard, reduced the trailing bough to obedience, and then
                    joined them in their walk. He looked grave, was silent at first, and then spoke
                    abruptly—‘It is due to you to explain my behaviour last night.’
                ‘Amy thinks you must have seen the ghost,’ said Laura, trying to be gay.
                ‘Did I frighten you?’ said Guy, turning round, full of compunction. ‘No, no. I
                    never saw it. I never even heard of its being seen. I am very sorry.’
                ‘I was very silly,’ said Amy smiling.
                ‘But,’ proceeded Guy, ‘when I think of the origin of the ghost story, I cannot
                    laugh, and if Philip knew all—’
                ‘Oh! He does not,’ cried Laura; ‘he only looks on it as we have always done, as a
                    sort of romantic appendage to Redclyffe. I should think better of a place for
                    being haunted.’
                ‘I used to be proud of it,’ said Guy. ‘I wanted to make out whether it was old
                    Sir Hugh or the murderer of Becket, who was said to groan and turn the lock of
                    Dark Hugh's chamber. I hunted among old papers, and a horrible story I found.
                    That wretched Sir Hugh,—the same who began the quarrel with your mother's
                    family—he was a courtier of Charles II., as bad or worse than any of that
                    crew—’
                ‘What was the quarrel about?’ said Laura.
                ‘He was believed to have either falsified or destroyed his father's will, so as
                    to leave his brother, your ancestor, landless; his brother remonstrated, and he
                    turned him out of doors. The forgery never was proved, but there was little
                    doubt of it. There are traditions of his crimes without number, especially his
                    furious anger and malice. He compelled a poor lady to marry him, though she was
                    in love with another man; then he was jealous; he waylaid his rival, shut him up
                    in the turret chamber, committed him to prison, and bribed Judge Jeffries to
                    sentence him—nay it is even said he carried his wife to see the execution! He
                    was so execrated that he fled the country; he went to Holland, curried favour
                        with William of Orange, brought his wealth
                    to help him, and that is the deserving action which got him the baronetcy! He
                    served in the army a good many years, and came home when he thought his sins
                    would be forgotten. But do you remember those lines?’ and Guy repeated them in
                    the low rigid tone, almost of horror, in which he had been telling the story:— 
                        
                            ‘On some his vigorous judgments light,
                            In that dread pause 'twixt day and night,
                            Life's closing twilight hour;
                            Round some, ere yet they meet their doom,
                            Is shed the silence of the tomb,
                            The eternal shadows lower.’
                        
                    
                ‘It was so with him; he lost his senses, and after many actions of mad violence,
                    he ended by hanging himself in the very room where he had imprisoned his
                    victim.’
                ‘Horrible!’ said Laura. ‘Yet I do not see why, when it is all past, you should
                    feel it so deeply.’
                ‘How should I not feel it?’ answered Guy. ‘Is it not written that the sins of the
                    fathers shall be visited on the children? You wonder to see me so foolish about
                    Sintram. Well, it is my firm belief that such a curse of sin and death as was on
                    Sintram rests on the descendants of that miserable man.’
                The girls were silent, struck with awe and dismay at the fearful reality with
                    which he pronounced the words. At last, Amy whispered, ‘But Sintram conquered
                    his doom.’
                At the same time Laura gathered her thoughts together, and said, ‘This must be an
                    imagination. You have dwelt on it and fostered it till you believe it, but such
                    notions should be driven away or they will work their own fulfilment.’
                ‘Look at the history of the Morvilles, and see if it be an imagination,’ said
                    Guy. ‘Crime and bloodshed have been the portion of each—each has added weight
                    and darkness to the doom which he had handed on. My own poor father, with his early death, was, perhaps, the happiest!’
                Laura saw the idea was too deeply rooted to be treated as a fancy, and she found
                    a better argument. ‘The doom of sin and death is on us all, but you should
                    remember that if you are a Morville, you are also a Christian.’
                ‘He does remember it!’ said Amy, raising her eyes to his face, and then casting
                    them down, blushing at having understood his countenance, where, in the midst of
                    the gloomy shades, there rested for an instant the gleam which her mother had
                    likened to the expression of Raffaelle's cherub.
                They walked on for some time in silence. At last Laura exclaimed, ‘Are you really
                    like the portrait of this unfortunate Sir Hugh?’
                Guy made a sign of assent.
                ‘Oh! It must have been taken before he grew wicked,’ said Amy; and Laura felt the
                    same conviction, that treacherous revenge could never have existed beneath so
                    open a countenance, with so much of highmindedness, pure faith and contempt of
                    wrong in every glance of the eagle eye, in the frank expansion of the smooth
                    forehead.
                They were interrupted by Mr. Edmonstone's hearty voice, bawling across the garden
                    for one of the men. ‘O Guy! are you there?’ cried he, as soon as he saw him.
                    ‘Just what I wanted! Your gun, man! We are going to ferret a rabbit.’
                Guy ran off at full speed in search of his gun, whistling to Bustle. Mr.
                    Edmonstone found his man, and the sisters were again alone.
                ‘Poor fellow!’ said Laura.
                ‘You will not tell all this to Philip?’ said Amy.
                ‘It would show why he was hurt, and it can be no secret.’
                ‘I dare say you are right, but I have a feeling against it. Well, I am glad he
                    had not seen the ghost!’
                The two girls had taken their walk, and were just going in, when, looking round, they saw Philip walking fast and determinedly
                    up the approach, and as they turned back to meet him, the first thing he said
                    was, ‘Where is Guy?’
                ‘Ferreting rabbits with papa. What is the matter?’
                ‘And where is my aunt?’
                Driving out with Charles and Charlotte. What is the matter?’
                ‘Look here. Can you tell me the meaning of this which I found on my table when I
                    came in this morning?’
                It was a card of Sir Guy Morville, on the back of which was written in pencil,
                    ‘Dear P., I find hunting and reading don't agree, so take no further steps about
                    the horse. Many thanks for your trouble.—G.M.’
                ‘There,’ said Philip, ‘is the result of brooding all night on his
                    resentment.’
                ‘O no!’ cried Laura, colouring with eagerness, ‘you do not understand him. He
                    could not bear it last night, because, as he has been explaining to us, that old
                    Sir Hugh's story was more shocking than we ever guessed, and he has a fancy that
                    their misfortunes are a family fate, and he could not bear to hear it spoken of
                    lightly.’
                ‘Oh! He has been telling you his own story, has he?’
                Laura's colour grew still deeper. ‘If you had been there,’ she said, ‘you would
                    have been convinced. Why will you not believe that he finds hunting interfere
                    with reading?’
                ‘He should have thought of that before,’ said Philip. ‘Here have I half bought
                    the horse! I have wasted the whole morning on it, and now I have to leave it on
                    the man's hands. I had a dozen times rather take it myself, if I could afford
                    it. Such a bargain as I had made, and such an animal as you will not see twice
                    in your life.’
                ‘It is a great pity,’ said Laura. ‘He should have known his own mind. I don't
                    like people to give trouble for nothing.’
                
                ‘Crazy about it last night, and giving it up this morning! A most extraordinary
                    proceeding. No, no, Laura, this is not simple fickleness, it would be too
                    absurd. It is temper, temper, which makes a man punish himself, in hopes of
                    punishing others.’
                Laura still spoke for Guy, and Amy rejoiced; for if her sister had not taken up
                    the defence of the absent, she must, and she felt too strongly to be willing to
                    speak. It seemed too absurd for one feeling himself under such a doom to wrangle
                    about a horse, yet she was somewhat amused by the conviction that if Guy had
                    really wished to annoy Philip he had certainly succeeded.
                There was no coming to an agreement. Laura's sense of justice revolted at the
                    notion of Guy's being 
                        guiltd
                        guilty
                     of petty spite; while Philip, firm in his 
                        preconceivey
                        preconceived
                     idea of his character, and his own knowledge of mankind, was persuaded
                    that he had imputed the true motive, and was displeased at Laura's attempting to
                    argue the point. He could not wait to see any one else, as he was engaged to
                    dine out, and he set off again at his quick, resolute pace.
                ‘He is very unfair!’ exclaimed Amy.
                ‘He did not mean to be so,’ said Laura; ‘and though he is mistaken in imputing
                    such motives, Guy's conduct has certainly been vexatious.’
                They were just turning to go in, when they were interrupted by the return of the
                    carriage; and before Charles had been helped up the steps, their father and Guy
                    came in sight. While Guy went to shut up Bustle, who was too wet for the
                    drawing-room, Mr. Edmonstone came up to the others, kicking away the pebbles
                    before him, and fidgeting with his gloves, as he always did, when vexed.
                ‘Here's a pretty go!’ said he. ‘Here is Guy telling me he won't hunt any
                    more!’
                ‘Not hunt!’ cried Mrs. Edmonstone and Charles at once; ‘and why?’
                ‘Oh! something about its taking his mind from his reading; but that can't be
                    it—impossible, you know. I'd give ten pounds to
                    know what has vexed him. So keen as he was about it last night, and I vow, one
                    of the best riders in the whole field. Giving up that horse, too—I declare it is
                    a perfect sin! I told him he had gone too far, and he said he had left a note
                    with Philip this morning.’
                ‘Yes,’ said Laura; ‘Philip has just been here about it. Guy left a card, saying,
                    hunting and reading would not agree.’
                ‘That is an excuse, depend upon it,’ said Mr. Edmonstone. ‘Something has nettled
                    him, I am sure. It could not be that Gordon, could it, with his
                    hail-fellow-well-met manner? I thought Guy did not half like it the other day
                    when he rode up with his ‘Hollo, Morville!’ The Morvilles have a touch of pride
                    of their own; eh, mamma?’
                ‘I should be inclined to believe his own account of himself,’ said she.
                ‘I tell you, 'tis utterly against reason,’ said Mr. Edmonstone, angrily. ‘If he
                    was a fellow like Philip, or James Ross, I could believe it; but he—he make a
                    book-worm! He hates it, like poison, at the bottom of his heart, I'll answer for
                    it; and the worst of it is, the fellow putting forward such a fair reason one
                    can't—being his guardian, and all—say what one thinks of it oneself. Eh,
                    mamma?’
                ‘Not exactly,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone, smiling.
                ‘Well, you take him in hand, mamma. I dare say he will tell you the rights of it,
                    and if it is only that Gordon, explain it rightly to him, show him 'tis only the
                    man's way; tell him he treats me so for ever, and would the Lord Lieutenant if
                    he was in it.’
                ‘For a' that and a' that,’ said Charles, as Amy led him into the
                    drawing-room.
                ‘You are sure the reading is the only reason?’ said Amy.’
                ‘He's quite absurd enough for it,’ said Charles; but ‘absurd’ was pronounced in a
                    way that made its meaning far from annoying even to Guy's little champion.
                Guy came in the next moment, and running lightly
                    up stairs after Mrs. Edmonstone, found her opening the dressing-room door, and
                    asked if he might come in.
                ‘By all means,’ she said; ‘I am quite ready for one of our twilight talks.’
                ‘I am afraid I have vexed Mr. Edmonstone,’ began Guy; ‘and I am very sorry.’
                ‘He was only afraid that something might have occurred to vex you, which you
                    might not like to mention to him,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone, hesitating a
                    little.
                ‘Me! What could I have done to make him think so? I am angry with no one but
                    myself. The fact is only this, the hunting is too pleasant; it fills up my head
                    all day and all night; and I don't attend rightly to anything else. If I am out
                    in the morning and try to pay for it at night, it will not do; I can but just
                    keep awake and that's all; the Greek letters all seem to be hunting each other,
                    the simplest things grow difficult, and at last all I can think of, is how near
                    the minute hand of my watch is near to the hour I have set myself. So, for the
                    last fortnight, every construing with Mr. Lascelles has been worse than the
                    last; and as to my Latin verses, they were beyond everything shocking, so you
                    see there is no making the two things agree, and the hunting must wait till I
                    grow steadier, if I ever do. Heigho! It is a great bore to be so stupid, for I
                    thought—But it is of no use to talk of it!’
                ‘Mr. Edmonstone would be a very unreasonable guardian, indeed, to be displeased,’
                    said his friend, smiling. ‘You say you stopped the purchase of the horse. Why
                    so? Could you not keep him till you are more sure of yourself?’
                ‘Do you think I might?’ joyously exclaimed Guy. ‘I'll write to Philip this minute
                    by the post. Such a splendid creature; it would do you good to see it—such
                    action—such a neck—such spirit. It would be a shame not to secure it. But
                    no—no—’—and he checked himself sorrowfully. ‘I have made my mind before that I
                    don't deserve it. If it was here, it would always have to be tried; if I heard
                    the hounds, I don't know I should keep from
                    riding after them; whereas, now I can't, for William wont let me take Deloraine.
                    No, I can't trust myself to keep such a horse, and not hunt. It will serve me
                    right to see Mr. Brownlow on it, and he will never miss such a chance!’ and the
                    depth of his sigh bore witness to the struggle it cost him.
                ‘I should not like to use anyone as you use yourself,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone,
                    looking at him with affectionate anxiety, which seemed suddenly to change the
                    current of his thought, for he exclaimed abruptly—‘Mrs. Edmonstone, can you tell
                    me anything about my mother?’
                ‘I am afraid not,’ said she, kindly; ‘you know we had so little intercourse with
                    your family, that I heard little but the bare facts.’
                ‘I don't think,’ said Guy, leaning on the chimney-piece, ‘that I ever thought
                    much about her till I knew you, but lately I have fancied a great deal about
                    what might have been if she had but lived.’
                It was not Mrs. Edmonstone's way to say half what she felt, and she went on—‘Poor
                    thing! I believe she was quite a child.’
                ‘Only seventeen when she died,’ said Guy.
                Mrs. Edmonstone went to a drawer, took out two or three bundles of old letters,
                    and after searching in them by the firelight, said—‘Ah! here's a little about
                    her; it is in a letter from my sister-in-law, Philip's mother, when they were
                    staying at Stylehurst.’
                ‘Who? My father and mother?’ cried Guy eagerly.
                ‘Did you not know they had been there three or four days?’
                ‘No—I know less about them than anybody,’ said he, sadly: but as Mrs. Edmonstone
                    waited, doubtful as to whether she might be about to make disclosures for which
                    he was unprepared, he added, hastily—‘I do know the main facts of the story; I
                    was told them last autumn;’ and an expression denoting the remembrance of great
                    suffering, came over his face, then, pausing a
                    moment, he said—‘I knew Archdeacon Morville had been very kind.’
                ‘He was always interested about your father,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone; ‘and
                    happening to meet him in London some little time after his marriage, he—he was
                    pleased with the manner in which he was behaving then, thought—thought—’ And
                    here, recollecting that she must not speak ill of old Sir Guy, nor palliate his
                    son's conduct, poor Mrs. Edmonstone got into an inextricable confusion—all the
                    worse because the fierce twisting of a penwiper in Guy's fingers denoted that he
                    was suffering a great trial of patience. She avoided the difficulty thus: ‘It is
                    hard to speak of such things when there is so much to be regretted on both
                    sides; but the fact was, my brother thought your father was harshly dealt with
                    at that time. Of course he had done very wrong; but he had been so much
                    neglected and left to himself, that it seemed hardly fair to visit his offence
                    on him as severely as if he had had more advantages. So it ended in their coming
                    to spend a day or two at Stylehurst; and this is the letter my sister-in-law
                    wrote at the time:—
                ‘‘Our visitors have just left us, and on the whole I am much better pleased than
                    I expected. The little Mrs. Morville is a very pretty creature, and as engaging
                    as long flaxen curls, apple-blossom complexion, blue eyes, and the sweetest of
                    voices can make her; so full of childish glee and playfulness, that no one would
                    stop to think whether she was lady-like any more than you would with a child.
                    She used to go singing like a bird about the house as soon as the first
                    strangeness wore off, which was after her first game of play with Fanny and
                    Little Philip. She made them very fond of her, as indeed she would make every
                    one who spent a day or two in the same house with her. I could almost defy Sir
                    Guy not to be reconciled after one sight of her sweet sunny face. She is all
                    affection and gentleness, and with tolerable training anything might be made of
                    her; but she is so young in mind and manners, that one cannot even think of blaming her for her
                    elopement, for she had no mother, no education but in music; and her brother
                    seems to have forced it on, thrown her in Mr. Morville's way, and worked on his
                    excitable temperament, until he hurried them into marriage. Poor little girl, I
                    suppose she little guesses what she has done; but it was very pleasant to see
                    how devotedly attached he seemed to her; and there was something beautiful in
                    the softening of his impetuous tones when he said, ‘Marianne;’ and her pride in
                    him was very pretty, like a child playing at matronly airs.’’
                Guy gave a long, heavy sigh, brushed away a tear, and after a long silence, said,
                    ‘Is that all?’
                ‘All that I like to read to you. Indeed, there is no more about her; and it would
                    be of no use to read all the reports that were going about.—Ah! here,’ said Mrs.
                    Edmonstone, looking into another letter, ‘she speaks of your father as a very
                    fine young man, with most generous impulses,’—but here again she was obliged to
                    stop, for the next sentence spoke of ‘a noble character ruined by
                    mismanagement.’ ‘She never saw them again,’ continued Mrs. Edmonstone; ‘Mr.
                    Dixon, your mother's brother, had great influence with your father, and made
                    matters worse—so much worse, that my brother did not feel himself justified in
                    having any more to do with them.’
                ‘Ah! he went to America,’ said Guy; ‘I don't know any more about him except that
                    he came to the funeral, and stood with his arms folded, not choosing to shake
                    hands with my poor grandfather.’ After another silence he said, ‘Will you read
                    that again?’ and when he had heard it, he sat shading his brow with his hand, as
                    if to bring the fair, girlish picture fully before his mind, while Mrs.
                    Edmonstone sought in vain among her letters for one which did not speak of the
                    fiery passions ignited on either side, in terms too strong to be fit for his
                    ears.
                When next he spoke it was to repeat that he had not been informed of the history
                    of his parents till within the last few months.
                    He had, of course, known the manner of their death, but had only lately become
                    aware of the circumstances attending it.
                The truth was that Guy had grown up peculiarly shielded from evil, but ignorant
                    of the cause of the almost morbid solicitude with which he was regarded by his
                    grandfather. He was a very happy, joyous boy, leading an active, enterprising
                    life, though so lonely as to occasion greater dreaminess and thoughtfulness than
                    usual at such an early age. He was devotedly attached to his grandfather,
                    looking on him as the first and best of human beings, and silencing the belief
                    that Sir Hugh Morville had entailed a doom of crime and sorrow on the family, by
                    a reference to him, as one who had been always good and prosperous.
                When, however, Guy had reached an age at which he must encounter the influences
                    which had proved so baneful to others of his family, his grandfather thought it
                    time to give him the warning of his own history.
                The sins, which the repentance of years had made more odious in the eyes of the
                    old man, were narrated; the idleness and insubordination at first, then the
                    reckless pursuit of pleasure, the craving for excitement, the defiance of rule
                    and authority, till folly had become vice, and vice had led to crime.
                He had fought no fewer than three duels, and only one had been bloodless. His
                    misery after the first had well-nigh led to a reform; but time had dulled its
                    acuteness—it had been lost in fresh scenes of excitement—and at the next offence
                    rage had swept away such recollections. Indeed, so far had he lost the natural
                    generosity of his character, that his remorse had been comparatively slight for
                    the last, which was the worst of all, since he had forced the quarrel on his
                    victim, Captain Wellwood, whose death had left a wife and children almost
                    destitute. His first awakening to a sense of what his course had been, was when
                    he beheld his only child, in the prime of youth, carried lifeless across his
                    threshold, and attributed his death to his own
                    intemperance and violence. That hour made Sir Guy Morville an old and a
                    broken-hearted man; and he repented as vigorously as he had sinned.
                From the moment he dared to hope that his son's orphan would be spared, he had
                    been devoted to him, but still mournfully, envying and pitying his innocence as
                    something that could not last.
                He saw bright blossoms put forth, as the boy grew older; but they were not yet
                    fruits, and he did not dare to believe they ever would be. The strength of will
                    which had, in his own case, been the slave of his passions, had been turned
                    inward to subdue the passions themselves, but this was only the beginning—the
                    trial was not yet come. He could hope his grandson might repent, but this was
                    the best that he dared to think possible. He could not believe that a Morville
                    could pass unscathed through the world, or that his sins would not be visited on
                    the head of his only descendant; and the tone of his narration was throughout
                    such as might almost have made the foreboding cause its own accomplishment.
                The effect was beyond what he had expected; for a soul deeply dyed in guilt, even
                    though loathing its own stains, had not the power of conceiving how foul was the
                    aspect of vice, to one hitherto guarded from its contemplation, and living in a
                    world of pure, lofty day-dreams. The boy sat the whole time without a word, his
                    face bent down and hidden by his clasped hands, only now and then unable to
                    repress a start or shudder at some fresh disclosure; and when it was ended, he
                    stood up, gazed round, and walked uncertainly, as if he did not know where he
                    was. His next impulse was to throw himself on his knee beside his grandfather,
                    and caress him as he used to when a child. The ‘good night’ was spoken, and Guy
                    was shut into his room, with his overwhelming emotions.
                His grandfather a blood-stained, remorseful man! The doom was complete, himself
                    heir to the curse of Sir Hugh, and fated to run the same career; and as he
                        knew full well, with the tendency to the
                    family character strong within him, the germs of these hateful passions ready to
                    take root downwards and bear fruit upwards, with the very countenance of Sir
                    Hugh, and the same darkening, kindling eyes, of which traditions had preserved
                    the remembrance.
                He was crushed for awhile. The consciousness of strength not his own, of the
                    still small voice that could subdue the fire, the earthquake, and the whirlwind,
                    was slow in coming to him, and when it came, he, like his grandfather, had hope
                    rather of final repentance than of keeping himself unstained.
                His mind had not recovered the shock when his grandfather died,—died in faith and
                    fear, with good hope of accepted repentance, but unable to convey the assurance
                    of such hope to his grandson. Grief for the only parent he had ever known, and
                    the sensation of being completely alone in the world, were joined to a vague
                    impression of horror at the suddenness of the stroke, and it was long before the
                    influence of Hollywell, or the elasticity of his own youthfulness, could rouse
                    him from his depression.
                Even then it was almost against his will that he returned to enjoyment, unable to
                    avoid being amused, but feeling as if joy was not meant for him, and as if those
                    around were walking ‘in a world of light,’ where he could scarcely hope to tread
                    a few uncertain steps. In this despondency was Guy's chief danger, as it was
                    likely to make him deem a struggle with temptation fruitless, while his high
                    spirits and powers of keen enjoyment increased the peril of recklessness in the
                    reaction.
                It was Mrs. Edmonstone who first spoke with him cheerfully of a successful
                    conflict with evil, and made him perceive that his temptations were but such as
                    is common to man. She had given him a clue to discover when and how to trust
                    himself to enjoy; the story of Sintram had stirred him deeply, and this very
                    day, Amy's words, seemingly unheeded and unheard, had brought home to him the hope and encouragement of
                    that marvellous tale.
                They had helped him in standing, looking steadfastly upwards, and treading down
                    not merely evil, but the first token of coming evil, regardless of the bruises
                    he might inflict on himself. Well for him if he was constant.
                Such was Guy's inner life; his outward life, frank and joyous, has been shown,
                    and the two flowed on like a stream, pure as crystal, but into which the eye
                    cannot penetrate from its depth. The surface would be sometimes obscured by
                    cloud or shade, and reveal the sombre wells beneath; but more often the sunshine
                    would penetrate the inmost recesses, and make them glance and sparkle, showing
                    themselves as clear and limpid as the surface itself.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER VI.
                
                    
                        
                            
                                Can piety the discord heal,
                                Or stanch the death-feud's enmity?
                            
                        
                        —SCOTT.
                    
                
                IT must not be supposed that such a history of Guy's mind was
                    expressed by himself, or understood by Mrs. Edmonstone; but she saw enough to
                    guess at his character, perceive the sort of guidance he needed, and be doubly
                    interested in him. Much did she wish he could have such a friend as her brother
                    would have been, and hope that nothing would prevent a friendship with her
                    nephew.
                The present question about the horse was, she thought, unfortunate, since, though
                    Guy had exercised great self-denial, it was no wonder Philip was annoyed. Mr.
                    Edmonstone's vexation was soon over. As soon as she had persuaded him that there
                    had been no offence, he strove to say with a good grace, that it was very
                    proper, and told Guy he would be a thorough book-worm and tremendous scholar,
                    which Guy took as an excellent joke.
                Philip had made up his mind to be forbearing, and to say no more about it. Laura
                    thought this a pity, as they could thus never come to an understanding; but when
                    she hinted it, he wore such a dignified air of not being offended, that she was
                    much ashamed of having tried to direct one so much better able to judge. On his
                    side, Guy had no idea the trouble he had caused; so, after bestowing his thanks
                    in a gay, off-hand way, which Philip thought the worst feature of the case, he did his best to bring Hecuba back into
                    his mind, drive the hunters out of it, and appease the much-aggrieved William of
                    Deloraine.
                When all William's manœuvres resulted in his master's not hunting at all, he was
                    persuaded it was Mr. Edmonstone's fault, compassionated Sir Guy with all his
                    heart, and could only solace himself by taking Deloraine to exercise where he
                    was most likely to meet the hounds. He further chose to demonstrate that he was
                    not Mr. Edmonstone's servant, by disregarding some of his stable regulations;
                    but as soon as this came to his master's knowledge, a few words were spoken so
                    sharp and stern, that William never attempted to disobey again.
                It seemed as if it was the perception that so much was kept back by a strong
                    force, that made Guy's least token of displeasure so formidable. A village boy,
                    whom he caught misusing a poor dog, was found a few minutes after by Mr. Ross in
                    a state of terror that was positively ludicrous, though it did not appear that
                    Sir Guy had said or done much to alarm him; it was only the light in his eyes,
                    and the strength of repressed indignation in his short broken words, that had
                    made the impression.
                It appeared as if the force of his anger might be fearful, if once it broke forth
                    without control; yet at the same time he had a gentleness and attention, alike
                    to small and great, which, with his high spirit and good nature, his very sweet
                    voice and pleasant smile, made him a peculiarly winning and engaging person; and
                    few who saw him could help being interested in him.
                No wonder he had become in the eyes of the Edmonstones almost a part of their
                    family. Mrs. Edmonstone had assumed a motherly control over him, to which he
                    submitted with a sort of affectionate gratitude.
                One day Philip remarked, that he never saw any one so restless as Guy, who could
                    neither talk nor listen without playing with something. Scissors, pencil, paper-knife, or anything that came in his way,
                    was sure to be twisted or tormented, or if nothing else was at hand, he opened
                    and shut his own knife so as to put all the spectators in fear for his
                    fingers.
                ‘Yes,’ said Laura, ‘I saw how it tortured your eyebrows all the time you were
                    translating Schiller to us. I wondered you were not put out.’
                ‘I consider that to be put out—by which you mean to have the intellect at the
                    mercy of another's folly—is beneath a reasonable creature,’ said Philip; ‘but
                    that I was annoyed, I do not deny. It is a token of a restless, ill-regulated
                    mind.’
                ‘Restless, perhaps,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone; ‘but not necessarily ill-regulated. I
                    should think it rather a sign that he had no one to tell him of the tricks which
                    mothers generally nip in the bud.’
                ‘I was going to say that I think he fidgets less,’ said Laura; ‘but I think his
                    chief contortions of the scissors have been when Philip has been here.’
                ‘They have, I believe,’ said her mother; ‘I was thinking of giving him a
                    hint.’
                ‘Well, aunt, you are a tamer of savage beasts if you venture on such a subject,’
                    said Philip.
                ‘Do you dare me?’ she asked, smiling.
                ‘Why, I don't suppose he would do more than give you one of his lightning
                    glances: but that, I think, is more than you desire?’
                ‘Considerably,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone; ‘for his sake as much as my own.’
                ‘But,’ said Laura, ‘mamma has nearly cured him of pawing like a horse in the hall
                    when he is kept waiting. He said, he knew it was impatience, and begged her to
                    tell him how to cure it. So she treated him as an old fairy might, and advised
                    him in a grave, mysterious way, always to go and play the ‘Harmonious
                    Blacksmith,’ when he found himself getting into a taking, just as
                    if it was a charm. And he always does it most dutifully.’
                ‘It has a very good effect,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone; ‘for it is apt to act as a
                    summons to the other party, as well as a sedative to him.’
                ‘I must say I am curious to see what you will devise this time,’ said Philip;
                    ‘since you can't set him to play on the piano; and very few can bear to be told
                    of a trick of the kind.’
                In the course of that evening, Philip caused the great atlas to be brought out in
                    order to make investigations on the local habitation of a certain Khan of
                    Kipchack, who existed somewhere in the dark ages. Then he came to Marco Polo,
                    and Sir John Mandeville; and Guy, who knew both the books in the library at
                    Redclyffe, grew very eager in talking them over, and tracing their
                    adventures—then to the Genoese merchants, where Guy confessed himself perfectly
                    ignorant. Andrea Doria was the only Genoese he ever heard of; but he hunted out
                    with great interest all the localities of their numerous settlements. Then came
                    modern Italy, and its fallen palaces; then the contrast between the republican
                    merchant and aristocratic lord of the soil; then the corn-laws; and then, and
                    not till then, did Philip glance at his aunt, to show her Guy balancing a
                    Venetian weight on as few of his fingers as could support it.
                ‘Guy,’ said she, smiling, ‘does that unfortunate glass inspire you with any
                    arguments in favour of the Venetians?’
                Guy put it down at once, and Philip proceeded to improved methods of farming, to
                    enable landlords to meet the exigencies of the times. Guy had got hold of Mr.
                    Edmonstone's spectacle-case, and was putting its spring to a hard trial. Mrs.
                    Edmonstone doubted whether to interfere again; she knew this was not the sort of
                    thing that tried his temper, yet she particularly disliked playing him off, as
                    it were, for Philip's amusement, and quite as much letting him go on, and lower
                    himself in her nephew's estimation. The spectacle-case settled the matter—a
                    crack was heard, it refused to snap at all; and
                    Guy, much discomfited, made many apologies.
                Amy laughed; Philip was much too well-bred to do anything but curl his lip
                    unconsciously. Mrs. Edmonstone waited till he was gone, then, when she was
                    wishing Guy ‘good-night’ at Charles's door, she said:
                ‘The spectacle-case forestalled me in giving you a lecture on sparing our nerves.
                    Don't look so very full of compunction—it is only a trick which your mother
                    would have stopped at five years old, and which you can soon stop for
                    yourself.’
                ‘Thank you, I will,’ said Guy; ‘I hardly knew I did it, but I am very sorry it
                    has teazed you.’
                Thenceforward it was curious to see how he put down and pushed away all he had
                    once begun to touch and torture. Mrs. Edmonstone said it was self-command in no
                    common degree; and Philip allowed that to cure so inveterate a habit required
                    considerable strength of will.
                ‘However,’ he said, ‘I always gave the Morvilles credit for an iron resolution.
                    Yes, Amy, you may laugh; but if a man is not resolute in a little, he will never
                    be resolute in great matters.’
                ‘And Guy has been resolute the right way this time,’ said Laura.
                ‘May he always be the same,’ said Philip.
                Philip had undertaken, on his way back to Broadstone, to conduct Charlotte to
                    East Hill, where she was to spend the day with a little niece of Mary Ross. She
                    presently came down, her bonnet-strings tied in a most resolute-looking bow, and
                    her little figure drawn up so as to look as womanly is possible for her first
                    walk alone with Philip. She wished the party at home ‘good-bye;’ and as Amy and
                    Laura stood watching her, they could not help laughing to see her tripping feet
                    striving to keep step, her blue veil discreetly composed and her little head
                    turned up, as if she was trying hard to be on equa1 terms with the tall cousin,
                    who meanwhile looked graciously down from his height, patronising her like a very small child. After some space, Amy began
                    to wonder what they could talk about, or whether they would talk at all; but
                    Laura said there was no fear of Charlotte's tongue ever being still, and Charles
                    rejoined:
                ‘Don't you know that Philip considers it due to himself that his audience should
                    never be without conversation suited to their capacity?’
                ‘Nonsense, Charlie!’
                ‘Nay, I give him credit for doing it as well as it is in nature of things for it
                    to be done. The strongest proof I know of his being a superior man, is the way
                    he adapts himself to his company. He lays down the law to us, because he knows
                    we are all born to be his admirers; he calls Thorndale his dear fellow and
                    conducts him like a Mentor; but you may observe how different he is with other
                    people—Mr. Ross, for instance. It is not showing off; it is just what the
                    pattern hero should be with the pattern clergyman. At a dinner-party he is quite
                    in his place; contents himself with leaving an impression on his neighbour that
                    Mr. Morville is at home on every subject; and that he is the right thing with
                    his brother officers is sufficiently proved, since not even Maurice either hates
                    or quizzes him.’
                ‘Well, Charlie,’ said Laura, much pleased, ‘I am glad you are convinced at
                    last.’
                ‘Do you think I ever wanted to be convinced that we were created for no other end
                    than to applaud Philip? I was fulfilling the object of our existence by
                    enlarging on a remark of Guy's, that nothing struck him more than the way in
                    which Philip could adapt his conversation to the hearers. So the hint was not
                    lost on me; and I came to the conclusion that it was a far greater proof of his
                    sense than all the maxims he lavishes on us.’
                ‘I wonder Guy was the person to make the remark,’ said Laura; ‘for it is strange
                    that those two never appear to the best advantage together.’
                
                ‘O Laura, that would be the very reason,’ said Amy.
                ‘The very reason?’ said Charles. Draw out your meaning, Miss.’
                ‘Yes,’ said Amy, colouring, ‘If Guy—if a generous person, I mean—were vexed with
                    another sometimes, it would be the very reason he would make the most of all his
                    goodness.’
                ‘Heigh-ho!’ yawned Charles. ‘What o'clock is it? I wonder when Guy is ever coming
                    back from that Lascelles.’
                ‘Your wonder need not last long,’ said Laura; ‘for I see him riding into the
                    stable yard.’
                In a few minutes he had entered; and, on being asked if he had met Philip and
                    Charlotte, and how they were getting on, he replied,—‘A good deal like the print
                    of Dignity and Impudence,’ at the same time throwing back his shoulders, and
                    composing his countenance to imitate Philip's lofty deportment and sedate
                    expression, and the next moment putting his head on one side with a sharp little
                    nod, and giving a certain espiegle glance of the eye, and knowing twist of one
                    corner of the mouth, just like Charlotte.
                ‘By the bye,’ added he, ‘would Philip have been a clergyman if he had gone to
                    Oxford?’
                ‘I don't know; I don't think it was settled,’ said Laura, ‘Why?’
                ‘I could never fancy him one’ said Guy.
                ‘He would not have been what he is now if he had gone to Oxford,’ said Charles.
                    ‘He would have lived with men of the same powers and pursuits with himself, and
                    have found his level.’
                ‘And that would have been a very high one,’ said Guy.
                ‘It would; but there would be all the difference there is between a feudal prince
                    and an Eastern despot. He would know what it is to live with his match.’
                ‘But you don't attempt to call him conceited!’ cried Guy, with a sort of
                    consternation.
                
                ‘He is far above that; far too grand,’ said Amy.
                ‘I should as soon think of calling Jupiter conceited,’ said Charles; and Laura
                    did not know how far to be gratified, or otherwise.
                Charles had not over-estimated Philip's readiness of self adaptation. Charlotte
                    had been very happy with him, talking over the Lady of the Lake,
                    which she had just read, and being enlightened, partly to her satisfaction,
                    partly to her disappointment, as to how much was historical. He listened
                    good-naturedly to a fit of rapture, and threw in a few, not too many, discreet
                    words of guidance to the true principles of taste; and next told her about an
                    island, in a pond at Stylehurst, which had been by turns Ellen's isle and
                    Robinson Crusoe's. It was at this point in the conversation that Guy came in
                    sight, riding slowly, his reins on his horse's neck, whistling a slow,
                    melancholy tune, his eyes fixed on the sky, and so lost in musings, that he did
                    not perceive them till Philip arrested him by calling out, ‘That is a very bad
                    plan. No horse is to be trusted in that way, especially such a spirited
                    one.’
                Guy started, and gathered up his reins, owning it was foolish.
                ‘You look only half disenchanted yet,’ said Philip. ‘Has Lascelles put you into
                    what my father's old gardener used to call a stud?’
                ‘Nothing so worthy of a stud,’ said Guy, smiling and colouring a little. ‘I was
                    only dreaming over a picture of ruin— 
                        
                            ‘The steed is vanish'd from the stall,
                            No serf is seen in Hassan's hall,
                            The lonely spider's thin grey pall
                            Waves, slowly widening o'er the wall.’
                        
                    
                ‘Byron!’ exclaimed Philip. ‘I hope you are not dwelling on him!’
                ‘Only a volume I found in my room.’
                ‘Oh, the Giaour!’ said Philip. ‘Well, there is no great damage
                    done; but it is bad food for excitable minds. Don't let it get hold of you.’
                
                ‘Very well;’ and there was a cloud, but it cleared in a moment, and, with a few
                    gay words to both, he rode off at a quick pace.
                ‘Foolish fellow!’ muttered Philip, looking after him.
                After some space of silence, Charlotte began in a very grave tone—
                ‘Philip.’
                ‘Well?’
                ‘Philip.’
                Another ‘Well!’ and another long pause.
                ‘Philip, I don't know whether you'll be angry with me.’
                ‘Certainly not,’ said Philip, marvelling at what was coming.
                ‘Guy says he does not want to keep up the feud, and I wish you would not.’
                ‘What do you mean?’
                ‘The deadly feud!’ said Charlotte.
                ‘What nonsense is this?’ said Philip.
                ‘Surely—O Philip, there always was a deadly feud between our ancestors, and the
                    Redclyffe Morvilles, and it was very wrong, and ought not to be kept up
                    now.’
                ‘It is not I that keep it up.’
                ‘Is it not?’ said Charlotte. ‘But I am sure you don't like Guy. And I can't think
                    why not, unless it is the deadly feud, for we are all so fond of him. Laura says
                    it is a different house since he came.’
                ‘Hum!’ said Philip. ‘Charlotte, you did well to make me promise not to be angry
                    with you, by which, I presume, you mean displeased. I should like to know what
                    put this notion into your head.’
                ‘Charlie told me,’ almost whispered Charlotte, hanging down her head.
                    ‘And—and—’
                ‘And what? I can't hear.’
                Charlotte was a good deal frightened; but either from firmness, or from the
                    female propensity to have the last word, or, it might be the spirit of mischief,
                    she got out—‘You have made me quite sure of it yourself.’
                She was so alarmed at having said this, that had it not been undignified, she would have run quite away, and never stopped
                    till she came to East Hill. Matters were not mended when Philip said
                    authoritatively, and as if he was not in the least bit annoyed (which was the
                    more vexatious), ‘What do you mean, Charlotte?’
                She had a great mind to cry, by way of getting out of the scrape; but having
                    begun as a counsellor and peacemaker, it would never do to be babyish; and on
                    his repeating the question, she said in a tone which she could not prevent from
                    being lachrymose, ‘You make Guy almost angry; you teaze him, and when people
                    praise him, you answer as if it would not last! And it is very unfair of you,’
                    concluded she, with almost a sob.
                ‘Charlotte,’ replied Philip, much more kindly than she thought she deserved,
                    after the reproach that seemed to her so dreadfully naughty, ‘you may dismiss
                    all fear of deadly feud, whatever you may mean by it. Charles has been playing
                    tricks on you. You know, my little cousin, that I am a Christian, and we live in
                    the nineteenth century.’
                Charlotte felt as if annihilated at the aspect of her own folly. He resumed—‘You
                    misunderstood me. I do think Guy very agreeable. He is very attentive to
                    Charles, very kind to you, and so attractive, that I don't wonder you like him.
                    But those who are older than you, see that he has faults, and we wish to set him
                    on his guard against them. It may be painful to ourselves, and irritating to
                    him, but depend upon it, it is the proof of friendship. Are you satisfied, my
                    little cousin.’
                She could only say humbly, ‘I beg your pardon.’
                ‘You need not ask pardon. Since you had the notion, it was right to speak, as it
                    was to me, one of your own family. When you are older, you need never fear to
                    speak out in the right place. I am glad you have so much of the right sort of
                    feminine courage, though in this case you might have ventured to trust to
                    me.’
                
                So ended Charlotte's anxieties respecting the deadly feud, and she had now to
                    make up her mind to the loss of her playfellow, who was to go to Oxford at
                    Easter, when he would be just eighteen, his birthday being the 28th of March.
                    Both her playmates were going, Bustle as well as Guy, and it was at first
                    proposed that Deloraine should go too, but Guy bethought himself that Oxford
                    would be a place of temptation for William; and not choosing to trust the horse
                    to any one else, resolved to leave both at Hollywell.
                His grandfather had left an allowance for Guy, until his coming of age, such as
                    might leave no room for extravagance, and which even Philip pronounced to be
                    hardly sufficient for a young man in his position. ‘You know,’ said Mr.
                    Edmonstone, in his hesitating, good-natured way, ‘if ever you have occasion
                    sometimes for a little—a little more—you need only apply to me. Don't be afraid,
                    anything rather than run into debt. You know me, and 'tis your own.’
                ‘This shall do,’ said Guy, in the same tone as he had fixed his hours of
                    study.
                Each of the family made Guy a birthday present, as an outfit for Oxford; Mr.
                    Edmonstone gave him a set of studs, Mrs. Edmonstone a Christian year, Amabel
                    copied some of his favourite songs, Laura made a drawing of Sintram, Charlotte
                    worked a kettle-holder, with what was called by courtesy a likeness of Bustle.
                    Charles gave nothing, professing that he would do nothing to encourage his
                    departure.
                ‘You don't know what a bore it is to lose the one bit of quicksilver in the
                    house!’ said he, yawning. ‘I shall only drag on my existence till you come
                    back.’
                ‘You, Charles, the maker of fun!’ said Guy, amazed.
                ‘It is a case of flint and steel,’ said Charles; ‘but be it owing to who it will,
                    we have been alive since you came here. You have taken care to be remembered. We
                    have been studying you, or laughing at you, or wondering what absurdity was to
                    come next.’
                
                ‘I am very sorry—that is, if you are serious. I hoped at least I appeared like
                    other people.’
                ‘I'll tell you what you appear like. Just what I would be if I was a free
                    man.’
                ‘Never say that, Charlie.’
                ‘Nay, wait a bit. I would never be so foolish. I would never give my sunny
                    mornings to Euripides; I would not let the best hunter in the county go when I
                    had wherewithal to pay for him.’
                ‘You would not have such an ill-conditioned self to keep in rule.’
                ‘After all,’ continued Charles, yawning, ‘it is no great compliment to say I am
                    sorry you are going. If you were an Ethiopian serenader you would be a loss to
                    me. It is something to see anything beyond this old drawing-room, and the same
                    faces doing the same things every day. Laura poking over her drawing, and
                    meditating upon the last entry in Philip's memorandum-book, and Amy at her
                    flowers or some nonsense or other, and Charlotte and the elders all the same,
                    and a lot of stupid people dropping in and a lot of stupid books to read, all
                    just alike. I can tell what they are like without looking in!’ Charles yawned
                    again, sighed, and moved wearily. ‘Now, there came some life and freshness with
                    you. You talk of Redclyffe, and your brute creation there, not like a book, and
                    still less like a commonplace man; you are innocent and unsophisticated, and
                    take new points of view; you are something to interest oneself about; your
                    coming in is something to look forward to; you make the singing not such mere
                    milk and water, your reading the Prælectiones is an additional landmark to time,
                    besides the mutton of to-day succeeding the beef of yesterday. Heigh-ho! I'll
                    tell you what, Guy, though I may carry it off with a high hand, 'tis no joke to
                    be a helpless log all the best years of a man's life,—nay, for my whole
                    life,—for at the very best of the contingencies the doctors are always
                    flattering me with, I should make but a wretched crippling affair of it. And if that is the best hope they give me, you
                    may guess it is likely to be a pretty deal worse. Hope? I've been hoping these
                    ten years, and much good has it done me. I say, Guy,’ he proceeded, in a tone of
                    extreme bitterness, though with a sort of smile, ‘the only wonder is that I
                    don't hate the very sight of you! There are times when I feel as if I could bite
                    some men,—that Tomfool Maurice de Courcy, for instance, when I hear him rattling
                    on, and think—’
                ‘I know I have often talked thoughtlessly, I have feared afterwards I might have
                    given you pain.’
                ‘No, no, you never have; you have carried me along with you. I like nothing
                    better than to hear of your ridings, and shootings, and boatings. It is a sort
                    of life.’
                Charles had never till now alluded seriously to his infirmity before Guy, and the
                    changing countenance of his auditor showed him to be much affected, as he stood
                    leaning over the end of the sofa, with his speaking eyes earnestly fixed on
                    Charles, who went on:
                ‘And now you are going to Oxford. You will take your place among the men of your
                    day. You will hear and be heard of. You will be somebody. And I!—I know I have
                    what they call talent—I could be something. They think me an idle dog; but
                    where's the good of doing anything? I only know if I was not—not condemned to—to
                    this—this life,’ (had it not been for a sort of involuntary respect to the
                    gentle compassion of the softened hazel eyes regarding him so kindly, he would
                    have used the violent expletive that trembled on his lip;) ‘if I was not chained
                    down here, master Philip should not stand alone as the paragon of the family.
                    I've as much mother wit as he.’
                ‘That you have,’ said Guy. ‘How fast you see the sense of a passage. You could
                    excel very much if you only tried.’
                ‘Tried? And what am I to gain by it?’
                ‘I don't know that one ought to let talents rust,’ said Guy, thoughtfully; ‘I suppose it is one's duty
                    not; and surely it is a pity to give up those readings.’
                ‘I shall not get such another fellow dunce as you,’ said Charles, ‘as I told you
                    when we began, and it would be a mere farce to do it alone. I could not make
                    myself, if I would.’
                ‘Can't you make yourself do what you please?’ said Guy, as if it was the simplest
                    thing in the world.
                ‘Not a bit, if the other half of me does not like it. I forget it, or put it off,
                    and it comes to nothing. I do declare, though, I would get something to break my
                    mind on, merely as a medical precaution, just to freshen myself up, if I could
                    find any one to do it with. No, nothing in the shape of a tutor, against that I
                    protest.’
                ‘Your sisters,’ suggested Guy.
                ‘Hum! Laura is too intellectual already, and I don't mean to poach on Philip's
                    manor; and if I made little Amy cease to be silly, I should do away with all the
                    comfort I have left me in life. I don't know, though, if she swallowed learning
                    after Mary Ross's pattern, that it need do her much harm.’
                Amy came into the room at the moment.
                ‘Amy, here is Guy advising me to take you to read something awfully wise every
                    day, something that will make you as dry as a stick, and as blue—’
                ‘As a gentianella,’ said Guy.
                ‘I should not mind being like a gentianella,’ said Amy. ‘But what dreadful thing
                    were you setting him to do?’
                ‘To make you read all the folios in my uncle's old library,’ said Charles. ‘All
                    that Margaret has in keeping against Philip has a house of his own.’
                ‘Sancho somebody, and all you talked of when first you came?’ said Amy.
                ‘We were talking of the hour's reading that Charlie and I have had together
                    lately,’ said Guy.
                ‘I was thinking how Charlie would miss that hour,’ said Amy; ‘and we shall be
                    very sorry not to have you to listen to.’
                ‘Well, then, Amy, suppose you read with me?’
                
                ‘O Charlie, thank you! Should you really like it?’ cried Amy, colouring with
                    delight. ‘I have always thought it would be so very delightful if you would read
                    with me, as James Ross used with Mary, only I was afraid of tiring you with my
                    stupidity. Oh, thank you!’
                So it was settled, and Charles declared that he put himself on honour to give a
                    good account of their doings to Guy, that being the only way of making himself
                    steady to his resolution; but he was perfectly determined not to let Philip know
                    anything about the practice he had adopted, since he would by no means allow him
                    to guess that he was following his advice.
                Charles had certainly grown very fond of Guy, in spite of his propensity to
                    admire Philip, satisfying himself by maintaining that, after all, Guy only tried
                    to esteem his cousin because he thought it a point of duty, just as children
                    think it right to admire the good boy in a story book; but that he was secretly
                    fretted and chafed by his perfection. No one could deny that there were often
                    occasions when little misunderstandings would arise, and that, but for Philip's
                    coolness and Guy's readiness to apologise they might often have gone further;
                    but at the same time no one could regret these things more than Guy himself, and
                    he was willing and desirous to seek Philip's advice and assistance when needed.
                    In especial, he listened earnestly to the counsel which was bestowed on him
                    about Oxford; and Mrs. Edmonstone was convinced that no one could have more
                    anxiety to do right and avoid temptation. She had many talks with him in her
                    dressing-room, promising to write to him, as did also Charles; and he left
                    Hollywell with universal regrets, most loudly expressed by Charlotte, who would
                    not be comforted without a lock of Bustle's hair, which she would have worn
                    round her neck if she had not been afraid that Laura would tell Philip.
                ‘He goes with excellent intentions,’ said Philip, as they watched him from the
                    door.
                
                ‘I do hope he will do well,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone.
                ‘I wish he may,’ said Philip; ‘the agreeableness of his whole character makes one
                    more anxious. It is very dangerous! His name, his wealth, his sociable, gay
                    disposition, that very attractive manner, all are so many perils, and he has not
                    that natural pleasure in study that would be of itself a preservative from
                    temptation. However, he is honestly anxious to do right, and has excellent
                    principles. I only fear his temper and his want of steadiness. Poor boy, I hope
                    he may do well!’
            
            
                
                CHAPTER VII.
                
                    
                        
                            
                                —Pray, good shepherd, what
                                Fair swain is this that dances with your daughter?
                                
                            
                            He sings several times faster than you'll tell money; he utters them
                                as he had eaten ballads, and all men's ears grow to his tunes.
                        
                        —WINTER'S TALE.
                    
                
                IT was a glorious day in June, the sky of pure deep dazzling
                    blue, the sunshine glowing with brightness, but with cheerful freshness in the
                    air that took away all sultriness, the sun tending westward in his long day's
                    career, and casting welcome shadows from the tall firs and horse-chestnuts that
                    shaded the lawn. A long rank of haymakers—men and women—proceeded with their
                    rakes, the white shirt-sleeves, straw bonnets, and ruddy faces, radiant in the
                    bath of sunshine, while in the shady end of the field were idler haymakers among
                    the fragrant piles, Charles half lying on the grass, with his back against a
                    tall hay-cock; Mrs. Edmonstone sitting on another, book in hand; Laura sketching
                    the busy scene, the sun glancing through the chequered shade on her glossy
                    curls; Philip stretched out at full length, hat and neck-tie off, luxuriating in
                    the cool repose after a dusty walk from Broadstone; and a little way off, Amabel
                    and Charlotte pretending to make hay, but really building nests with it,
                    throwing it at each other, and playing as heartily as the heat would allow.
                They talked and laughed, the rest were too hot, too busy, or too sleepy for
                    conversation, even Philip being tired into enjoying the dolce far niente; and they basked in the fresh breezy heat and perfumy hay with only now and then a word, till
                    a cold, black, damp nose was suddenly thrust into Charles's face, a red tongue
                    began licking him; and at the same moment Charlotte, screaming ‘There he is!’
                    raced headlong across the swarths of hay, to meet Guy, who had just ridden into
                    the field. He threw Deloraine's rein to one of the haymakers, and came bounding
                    to meet her, just in time to pick her up as she put her foot into a hidden hole,
                    and fell prostrate.
                In another moment he was in the midst of the whole party, who crowded round and
                    welcomed him as if he had been a boy returning from his first half-year's
                    schooling; and never did little schoolboy look more holiday-like than he, with
                    all the sunshine of that June day reflected, as it were, in his glittering eyes
                    and glowing face, while Bustle, escaping from Charles's caressing arm, danced
                    round, wagging his tail in ecstasy, and claiming his share of the welcome. Then
                    Guy was on the ground by Charles, rejoicing to find him out there, and then,
                    some dropping into their former nests on the hay, some standing round, they
                    talked fast and eagerly in a confusion of sound that did not subside for the
                    first ten minutes so as to allow anything to be clearly heard. The first
                    distinct sentence was Charlotte's ‘Bustle, darling old fellow, you are handsomer
                    than ever!’
                ‘What a delicious day!’ next exclaimed Guy, following Philip's example, by
                    throwing off hat and neck-tie.
                ‘A spontaneous tribute to the beauty of the day,’ said Charles.
                ‘Really it is so ultra-splendid as to deserve notice!’ said Philip, throwing
                    himself completely back, and looking up.
                ‘One cannot help revelling in that deep blue!’ said Laura.
                ‘Tomorrow'll be the happiest time of all the glad new year,’ hummed Guy.
                ‘Ah you will teach us all now,’ said Laura, ‘after your grand singing
                    lessons.’
                
                ‘Do you know what is in store for you, Guy?’ said Amy. ‘Oh! haven't you heard
                    about Lady Kilcoran's ball?’
                ‘You are to go, Guy,’ said Charlotte. ‘I am glad I am not. I hate dancing.’
                ‘And I know as much about it as Bustle,’ said Guy, catching the dog by his
                    forepaws, and causing him to perform an uncouth dance.
                ‘Never mind, they will soon teach you,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone.
                ‘Must I really go?’
                ‘He begins to think it serious,’ said Charles.
                ‘Is Philip going?’ exclaimed Guy, looking as if he was taken by surprise.
                ‘He is going to say something about dancing being a healthful recreation for
                    young people,’ said Charles.
                ‘You'll be disappointed,’ said Philip. ‘It is much too hot to moralize.’
                ‘Apollo unbends his bow,’ exclaimed Charles. ‘The captain yields the field.’
                ‘Ah! Captain Morville, I ought to have congratulated you,’ said Guy. ‘I must come
                    to Broadstone early enough to see you on parade.’
                ‘Come to Broadstone! You aren't still bound to Mr. Lascelles,’ said Charles.
                ‘If he has time for me,’ said Guy. ‘I am too far behind the rest of the world to
                    afford to be idle this vacation.’
                ‘That's right, Guy,’ exclaimed Philip, sitting up, and looking full of approval.
                    ‘With so much perseverance, you must get on at last. How did you do in
                    collections?’
                ‘Tolerably, thank you.’
                ‘You must be able to enter into the thing now,’ proceeded Philip. ‘What are you
                    reading?’
                ‘Thucydides.’
                ‘Have you come to Pericles' oration? I must show you some notes that I have on
                    that. Don't you get into the spirit of it now?’
                
                ‘Up-hill work still,’ answered Guy, disentangling some cliders from the
                    silky curls of Bustle's ear.
                ‘Which do you like best—that or the ball?’ asked Charles.
                ‘The hay-field best of all,’ said Guy, releasing Bustle, and blinding him with a
                    heap of hay.
                ‘Of course!’ said Charlotte, ‘who would not like haymaking better than that
                    stupid ball?’
                ‘Poor Charlotte!’ said Mrs. Edmonstone, commiseration which irritated Charlotte
                    into standing up and protesting, ‘Mamma, you know I don't want to go.’
                ‘No more do I, Charlotte,’ said her brother, in a mock consoling tone. ‘You and I
                    know what is good for us, and despise sublunary vanities.’
                ‘But you will go, Guy,’ said Laura; ‘Philip is really going.’
                ‘In spite of Lord Kilcoran's folly in going to such an expense as either taking
                    Allonby or giving the ball,’ said Charles.
                ‘I don't think it is my business to bring Lord Kilcoran to a sense of his folly,’
                    said Philip. ‘I made all my protests to Maurice when first he started the
                    notion, but if his father chose to take the matter up, it is no concern of
                    mine.’
                ‘You will understand, Guy,’ said Charles, ‘that this ball is specially got up by
                    Maurice for Laura's benefit.’
                ‘Believe as little as you please of that speech, Guy,’ said Laura; ‘the truth is
                    that Lord Kilcoran is very good-natured, and Eveleen was very much shocked to
                    hear that Amy had never been to any ball, and I to only one, and so it ended in
                    their giving one.’
                ‘When is it to be?’
                ‘On Thursday week,’ said Amy. ‘I wonder if you will think Eveleen as pretty as we
                    do!’
                ‘She is Laura's great friend, is not she?’
                ‘I like her very much; I have known her all my life, and she has much more depth
                    than those would think who only know her manner.’ And Laura looked pleadingly at
                    Philip as she spoke.
                
                ‘Are there any others of the family at home?’ said Guy.
                ‘The two younger girls, Mabel and Helen, and the little boys,’ said Amy. ‘Lord de
                    Courcy is in Ireland, and all the others are away.’
                ‘Lord de Courcy is the wisest man of the family, and sets his face against
                    absenteeism,’ said Philip, ‘so he is never visible here.’
                ‘But you aren't going to despise it, I hope, Guy,’ said Amy, earnestly; ‘it will
                    be so delightful! And what fun we shall have in teaching you to dance!’
                Guy stretched himself, and gave a quaint grunt.
                ‘Never mind, Guy,’ said Philip, ‘very little is required. You may easily pass in
                    the crowd. I never learnt.’
                ‘Your ear will guide you,’ said Laura.
                ‘And no one can stay at home, since Mary Ross is going,’ said Amy. ‘Eveleen was
                    always so fond of her, that she came and forced a promise from her by telling
                    her she should come with mamma, and have no trouble.’
                ‘You have not seen Allonby,’ said Laura. ‘There are such Vandykes, and among
                    them, such a King Charles!’
                ‘Is not that the picture,’ said Charles, ‘before which Amy—’
                ‘O don't, Charlie!’
                ‘Was found dissolved in tears?’
                ‘I could not help it,’ murmured Amy, blushing crimson.
                ‘There is all Charles's fate in his face,’ said Philip,—‘earnest, melancholy,
                    beautiful! It would stir the feelings—were it an unknown portrait. No, Amy, you
                    need not be ashamed of your tears.’
                But Amy turned away, doubly ashamed.
                ‘I hope it is not in the ball-room,’ said Guy.
                ‘No,’ said Laura, ‘it is in the library.’
                Charlotte, whose absence had become perceptible from the general quietness, here
                    ran up with two envelopes, which she put into Guy's hands. One was Lady 
                        Kil-
                        Kilcoran
                     coran's genuine card of invitation
                    for Sir Guy Morville, the other Charlotte had scribbled in haste, for Mr.
                    Bustle.
                This put an end to all rationality. Guy rose with a growl and a roar, and hunted
                    her over half the field, till she was caught, and came back out of breath and
                    screaming, ‘We never had such a haymaking!’
                ‘So I think the haymakers will say!’ answered her mother, rising to go indoors.
                    ‘What ruin of haycocks!’
                ‘Oh, I'll set all that to rights,’ said Guy, seizing a hay-fork.
                ‘Stop, stop, take care!’ cried Charles. ‘I don't want to be built up in the rick,
                    and by-and-by, when my disconsolate family have had all the ponds dragged for
                    me, Deloraine will be heard to complain that they give him very odd animal
                    food.’
                ‘Who could resist such a piteous appeal!’ said Guy, helping him to rise, and
                    conducting him to his wheeled chair. The others followed, and when, shortly
                    after, Laura looked out at her window, she saw Guy, with his coat off, toiling
                    like a real haymaker, to build up the cocks in all their neat fairness and
                    height, whistling meantime the ‘Queen of the May,’ and now and then singing a
                    line. She watched the old cowman come up, touching his hat, and looking less
                    cross than usual; she saw Guy's ready greeting, and their comparison of the
                    forks and rakes, the pooks and cocks of their counties; and, finally, she beheld
                    her father ride into the field, and Guy spring to meet him.
                No one could have so returned to what was in effect a home, unless his time had
                    been properly spent; and, in fact, all that Mr. Edmonstone or Philip could hear
                    of him, was so satisfactory, that Philip pronounced that the first stage of the
                    trial had been passed irreproachably, and Laura felt and looked delighted at
                    this sanction to the high estimation in which she held him.
                His own account of himself to Mrs. Edmonstone would not have been equally
                    satisfactory if she had not had something else to check it with. It was given by degrees, and at many different
                    times, chiefly as they walked round the garden in the twilight of the summer
                    evenings, talking over the many subjects mentioned in the letters which had
                    passed constantly. It seemed as if there were very few to whom Guy would ever
                    give his confidence; but that once bestowed, it was with hardly any reserve, and
                    that was his great relief and satisfaction to pour out his whole mind, where he
                    was sure of sympathy.
                To her, then, he confided how much provoked he was with himself, his ‘first
                    term,’ he said, ‘having only shown him what an intolerable fool he had to keep
                    in order.’ By his account, he could do nothing ‘without turning his own head,
                    except study, and that stupefied it.’ ‘Never was there a more idle fellow; he
                    could work himself for a given time, but his sense would not second him; and was
                    it not most absurd in him to take so little pleasure in what was his duty, and
                    enjoy only what was bad for him?’
                He had tried boating, but it had distracted him from his work; so he had been
                    obliged to give it up, and had done so in a hasty, vehement manner, which had
                    caused offence, and for which he blamed himself. It had been the same with other
                    things, till he had left himself no regular recreation but walking and music.
                    ‘The last,’ he said, ‘might engross him in the same way; but he thought (here he
                    hesitated a little) there were higher ends for music, which made it come under
                    Mrs. Edmonstone's rule, of a thing to be used guardedly, not disused.’ He had
                    resumed light reading, too, which he had nearly discontinued before he went to
                    Oxford. ‘One wants something,’ he said, ‘by way of refreshment, where there is
                    no sea nor rock to look at, and no Laura and Amy to talk to.’
                He had made one friend, a scholar of his own college, of the name of Wellwood.
                    This name had been his attraction; Guy was bent on friendship with him; if, as
                    he tried to make him out to be, he was the son of that Captain Wellwood whose
                    death had weighed so heavily on his
                    grandfather's conscience, feeling almost as if it were his duty to ask
                    forgiveness in his grandfather's name, yet scarcely knowing how to venture on
                    advances to one to whom his name had such associations. However, they had
                    gradually drawn together, and at length entered on the subject, and Guy then
                    found he was the nephew, not the son of Captain Wellwood; indeed, his former
                    belief was founded on a miscalculation, as the duel had taken place twenty-eight
                    years ago. He now heard all his grandfather had wished to know of the family.
                    There were two unmarried daughters, and their cousin spoke in the highest terms
                    of their self-devoted life, promising what Guy much wished, that they should
                    hear what deep repentance had followed the crime which had made them fatherless.
                    He was to be a clergyman, and Guy admired him extremely, saying, however, that
                    he was so shy and retiring, it was hard to know him well.
                From not having been at school, and from other causes, Guy had made few
                    acquaintance; indeed, he amused Mrs. Edmonstone by fearing he had been morose.
                    She was ready to tell him he was an ingenious self-tormentor; but she saw that
                    the struggle to do right was the main spring of the happiness that beamed round
                    him, in spite of his self-reproach, heart-felt as it was. She doubted whether
                    persons more contented with themselves were as truly joyous, and was convinced
                    that, while thus combating lesser temptations, the very shadow of what are
                    generally alone considered as real temptations would hardly come near him.
                If it had not been for these talks, and now and then a thoughtful look, she would
                    have believed him one of the most light-hearted and merriest of beings. He was
                    more full of glee and high spirits than she had ever seen him; he seemed to fill
                    the whole house with mirth, and keep every one alive by his fun and frolic, as
                    blithe and untiring as Maurice de Courcy himself, though not so wild.
                Very pleasant were those summer days—reading,
                    walking, music, gardening. Did not they all work like very labourers at the new
                    arbour in the midst of the laurels, where Charles might sit and see the spires
                    of Broadstone? Work they did, indeed! Charles looking on from his wheeled chair,
                    laughing to see Guy sawing as if for his living and Amy hammering gallantly, and
                    Laura weaving osiers, and Charlotte flying about with messages.
                One day, they were startled by an exclamation from Charles. ‘Ah, ha! Paddy, is
                    that you?’ and beheld the tall figure of a girl, advancing with a rapid,
                    springing step, holding up her riding habit with one hand, with the other
                    whisking her coral-handled whip. There was something distinguished in her air,
                    and her features, though less fine than Laura's, were very pretty, by the help
                    of laughing dark blue eyes, and very black hair, under her broad hat and little
                    waving feather. She threatened Charles with her whip, calling out—‘Aunt
                    Edmonstone said I should find you here. What is the fun now?’
                ‘Arbour building,’ said Charles; ‘don't you see the head carpenter?’
                ‘Sir Guy?’ whispered she, to Laura, looking up at him, where he was mounted on
                    the roof, thatching it with reed, the sunshine full on his glowing face and
                    white shirt sleeves.
                ‘Here!’ said Charles, as Guy swung himself down with a bound, his face much
                    redder than sun and work had already made it, ‘here's another wild Irisher for
                    you.’
                ‘Sir Guy Morville—Lady Eveleen de Courcy,’ began Laura; but Lady Eveleen cut her
                    short, frankly holding out her hand, and saying, ‘You are almost a cousin, you
                    know. Oh, don't leave off. Do give me something to do. That hammer, Amy,
                    pray—Laura, don't you remember how dearly I always loved hammering?’
                ‘How did you come?’ said Laura.
                ‘With papa—'tis his visit to Sir Guy. No, don't go,’ as Guy began to look for his
                    coat; ‘he is only 
                        im-
                        impending
                     pending. He is gone on to
                    Broadstone, but he dropped me here, and will pick me up on his way back. Can't
                    you give me something to do on the top of that ladder? I should like it
                    mightily; it looks so cool and airy.’
                ‘How can you, Eva?’ whispered Laura, reprovingly; but Lady Eveleen only shook her
                    head at her, and declaring she saw a dangerous nail sticking out, began to
                    hammer it in with such good will, that Charles stopped his ears, and told her it
                    was worse than her tongue. ‘Go on about the ball, do.’
                ‘Oh,’ said she earnestly, ‘do you think there is any hope of Captain Morville's
                    coming?’
                ‘Oh yes,’ said Laura.
                ‘I am so glad! That is what papa is gone to Broadstone about. Maurice said he had
                    given him such a lecture, that he would not be the one to think of asking him,
                    and papa must do it himself; for if he sets his face against it, it will spoil
                    it all.’
                ‘You may make your mind easy,’ said Charles, ‘the captain is lenient, and looks
                    on the ball as a mere development of Irish nature. He has been consoling Guy on
                    the difficulties of dancing.’
                ‘Can't you dance?’ said Lady Eveleen, looking at him with compassion.
                ‘Such is my melancholy ignorance,’ said Guy.
                ‘We have been talking of teaching him,’ said Laura.
                ‘Talk! will that do it?’ cried Lady Eveleen, springing up. ‘We will begin this
                    moment. Come out on the lawn. Here, Charles,’ wheeling him along, ‘No, thank
                    you, I like it,’ as Guy was going to help her. ‘There, Charles, be fiddler go
                    on, tum—tum, tee! that'll do. Amy, Laura, be ladies. I'm the other gentleman,’
                    and she stuck on her hat in military style, giving it a cock. She actually set
                    them quadrilling in spite of adverse circumstances, dancing better, in her
                    habit, than most people without one, till Lord Kilcoran arrived.
                While he was making his visit, she walked a little apart, arm-in-arm with Laura. ‘I like him very much,’
                    she said; ‘he looks up to anything. I had heard so much of his steadiness, that
                    it is a great relief to my mind to see him so unlike his cousin.’
                ‘Eveleen!’
                ‘No disparagement to the captain, only I am so dreadfully afraid of him. I am
                    sure he thinks me such an unmitigated goose. Now, doesn't he?’
                ‘If you would but take the right way to make him think otherwise, dear Eva, and
                    show the sense you really have.’
                ‘That is just what my fear of him wont let me do. I would not for the world let
                    him guess it, so there is nothing for it but sauciness to cover one's weakness.
                    I can't be sensible with those that won't give me credit for it. But you'll mind
                    and teach Sir Guy to dance; he has so much spring in him, he deserves to be an
                    Irishman.’
                In compliance with this injunction, there used to be a clearance every evening;
                    Charles turned into the bay window out of the way, Mrs. Edmonstone at the piano,
                    and the rest figuring away, the partnerless one, called ‘puss in the corner,’
                    being generally Amabel, while Charlotte, disdaining them all the time, used to
                    try to make them imitate her dancing-master's graces, causing her father to
                    perform such caricatures of them, as to overpower all with laughing.
                Mr. Edmonstone was half Irish. His mother, Lady Mabel Edmonstone, had never
                    thoroughly taken root in England, and on his marriage, had gone with her
                    daughter to live near her old home in Ireland. The present Earl of Kilcoran was
                    her nephew, and a very close intercourse had always been kept up between the
                    families, Mr. and Mrs. Edmonstone being adopted by their younger cousins as
                    uncle and aunt, and always so called.
                The house at Allonby was in such confusion, that the family there expected to
                    dine nowhere on the day of the ball, and the
                    Hollywell party thought it prudent to secure their dinner at home, with Philip
                    and Mary Ross, who were to go with them.
                By special desire, Philip wore his uniform; and while the sisters were dressing
                    Charlotte gave him a thorough examination, which led to a talk between him and
                    Mary on accoutrements and weapons in general; but while deep in some points of
                    chivalrous armour, Mary's waist was pinched by two mischievous hands, and a
                    little fluttering white figure danced around her.
                ‘O Amy! what do you want with me?’
                ‘Come and be trimmed up,’ said Amy.
                ‘I thought you told me I was to have no trouble. I am dressed,’ said Mary,
                    looking complacently at her full folds of white muslin.
                ‘No more you shall; but you promised to do as you were told.’ And Amy fluttered
                    away with her.
                ‘Do you remember,’ said Philip, ‘the comparison of Rose Flammock dragging off her
                    father, to a little carved cherub trying to uplift a solid monumental hero?’
                ‘O, I must tell Mary!’ cried Charlotte; but Philip stopped her, with orders not
                    to be a silly child.
                ‘It is a pity Amy should not have her share,’ said Charles.
                ‘The comparison to a Dutch cherub?’ asked Guy.
                ‘She is more after the pattern of the little things on little wings, in your
                    blotting-book,’ said Charles; ‘certain lines in the predicament of the cherubs
                    of painters—heads et præterea nihil.’
                ‘O Guy, do you write verses?’ cried Charlotte.
                ‘Some nonsense,’ muttered Guy, out of countenance; ‘I thought I had made away
                    with that rubbish; where is it?’
                ‘In the blotting-book in my room,’ said Charles. ‘I must explain that the book is
                    my property, and was put into your room when mamma was beautifying it for you,
                    as new and strange company. On its return to me, at your departure, I discovered
                    a great accession of blots and
                    sailing-vessels, besides the aforesaid little things.’
                ‘I shall resume my own property,’ said Guy, departing in haste.
                Charlotte ran after him, to beg for a sight of it; and Philip asked Charles what
                    it was like?
                ‘A romantic incident,’ said Charles, ‘just fit for a novel. A Petrarch leaving
                    his poems about in blotting-books.’
                Charles used the word Petrarch to stand for a poet, not thinking what lady's name
                    it suggested; and he was surprised at the severity of Philip's tone as he
                    inquired,
                ‘Do you mean anything, or do you not?’
                Perceiving with delight that he had perplexed and teazed, he rejoiced in keeping
                    up the mystery:
                ‘Eh? is it a tender subject with you, too?’
                Philip rose, and standing over him, said, in a low but impressive tone:
                ‘I cannot tell whether you are trifling or not; but you are no boy now, and can
                    surely see that this is no subject to be played with. If you are concealing
                    anything you have discovered, you have a great deal to answer for. I can hardly
                    imagine anything more unfortunate than that he should become attached to either
                    of your sisters.’
                ‘Et pourquoi?’ asked Charles, coolly.
                ‘I see,’ said Philip, retreating to his chair, and speaking with great composure,
                    ‘I did you injustice by speaking seriously.’ Then, as his uncle came into the
                    room, he asked some indifferent question, without betraying a shade of
                    annoyance.
                Charles meanwhile congratulated himself on his valour in keeping his counsel, in
                    spite of so tall a man in scarlet; but he was much nettled at the last speech,
                    for if a real attachment to his sister had been in question, he would never have
                    trifled about it. Keenly alive to his cousin's injustice, he rejoiced in having
                    provoked and mystified the impassable, though he little knew the storm he had raised beneath that serene
                    exterior of perfect self-command.
                The carriages were announced, and Mr. Edmonstone began to call the ladies, adding
                    tenfold to the confusion in the dressing-room. There was Laura being completed
                    by the lady's maid, Amabel embellishing Mary, Mrs. Edmonstone with her arm
                    loaded with shawls, Charlotte flourishing about. Poor Mary—it was much against
                    her will—but she had no heart to refuse the wreath of geraniums that Amy's own
                    hands had woven for her; and there she sat, passive as a doll, though in despair
                    at their all waiting for her. For Laura's toilette was finished, and every one
                    began dressing her at once; while Charlotte, to make it better, screamed over
                    the balusters that all were ready but Mary. Sir Guy was heard playing the
                    ‘Harmonious Blacksmith,’ and Captain Morville's step was heard, fast and firm.
                    At last, when a long chain was put round her neck, she cried out, ‘I have
                    submitted to everything so far; I can bear no more!’ jumped up, caught hold of
                    her shawl, and was putting it on, when there was a general outcry that they must
                    exhibit themselves to Charles.
                They all ran down, and Amy, flying up to her brother, made a splendid sweeping
                    curtsey, and twirled round in a pirouette.
                ‘Got up, regardless of expense!’ cried Charles; ‘display yourselves.’
                The young ladies ranged themselves in imitation of the book of fashions. The
                    sisters were in white, with wreaths of starry jessamine. It was particularly
                    becoming to Laura's bella-donna lily complexion, rich brown curls, and classical
                    features, and her brother exclaimed:
                ‘Laura is exactly like Apollo playing the lyre, outside mamma's old manuscript
                    book of music.’
                ‘Has not Amy made beautiful wreaths?’ said Laura. ‘She stripped the tree, and Guy
                    had to fetch the ladder, to gather the sprays on the top of the wall.’
                
                ‘Do you see your bit of myrtle, Guy,’ said Amy, pointing to it, on Laura's head,
                    ‘that you tried to persuade me would pass for jessamine?’
                ‘Ah! it should have been all myrtle,’ said Guy.
                Philip leant meantime against the door. Laura only once glanced towards him,
                    thinking all this too trifling for him, and never imagining the intense interest
                    with which he gave a meaning to each word and look.
                ‘Well done, Mary!’ cried Charles, ‘they have furbished you up handsomely.’
                Mary made a face, and said she should wonder who was the fashionable young lady
                    she should meet in the pier-glasses at Allonby. Then Mr. Edmonstone hurried them
                    away, and they arrived in due time.
                The saloon at Allonby was a beautiful room, one end opening into a conservatory,
                    full of coloured lamps, fresh green leaves, and hot-house plants. There they
                    found as yet only the home party, the good-natured, merry Lord Kilcoran, his
                    quiet English wife, who had bad health, and looked hardly equal to the confusion
                    of the evening; Maurice, and two younger boys; Eveleen, and her two little
                    sisters, Mabel and Helen.
                ‘This makes it hard on Charlotte,’ thought Amy, while the two girls dragged her
                    off to show her the lamps in the conservatory; and the rest attacked Mrs.
                    Edmonstone for not having brought Charlotte, reproaching her with hardness of
                    heart of which they had never believed her capable—Lady Eveleen, in especial,
                    talking with that exaggeration of her ordinary manner which her dread of Captain
                    Morville made her assume. Little he recked of her; he was absorbed in observing
                    how far Laura's conduct coincided with Charles's hints. On the first
                    opportunity, he asked her to dance, and was satisfied with her pleased
                    acquiescence; but the next moment Guy came up, and in an eager manner made the
                    same request.
                ‘I am engaged,’ said she, with a bright, proud glance at Philip; and Guy pursued
                    Amabel into the conservatory, where he met with better success. Mr. 
                        Edmon-
                        Edmonstone
                     stone gallantly asked Mary if he was
                    too old a partner, and was soon dancing with the step and spring that had once
                    made him the best dancer in the county.
                Mrs. Edmonstone watched her flock, proud and pleased, thinking how well they
                    looked and that, in especial, she had never been sensible how much Laura's and
                    Philip's good looks excelled the rest of the world. They were much alike in the
                    remarkable symmetry both of figure and feature, the colour of the deep blue eye,
                    and fairness of complexion.
                ‘It is curious,’ thought Mrs. Edmonstone, ‘that, so very handsome as Philip is,
                    it is never the first thing remarked about him, just as his height never is
                    observed till he is compared with other people. The fact is, that his superior
                    sense carries off a degree of beauty which would be a misfortune to most men. It
                    is that sedate expression and distinguished air that make the impression. How
                    happy Laura looks, how gracefully she moves. No, it is not being foolish to
                    think no one equal to Laura. My other pair!’ and she smiled much more; ‘you
                    happy young things, I would not wish to see anything pleasanter than your merry
                    faces. Little Amy looks almost as pretty as Laura, now she is lighted up by
                    blush and smile, and her dancing is very nice, it is just like her laughing, so
                    quiet, and yet so full of glee. I don't think she is less graceful than her
                    sister, but the complete enjoyment strikes one more. And as to enjoyment—there
                    are those bright eyes of her partner's perfectly sparkling with delight; he
                    looks as if it was a world of enchantment to him. Never had any one a greater
                    capacity for happiness than Guy.’
                Mrs. Edmonstone might well retain her opinion when, after the quadrille, Guy came
                    to tell her that he had never seen anything so delightful; and he entertained
                    Mary Ross with his fresh, joyous pleasure, through the next dance.
                ‘Laura,’ whispered Eveleen, ‘I've one ambition. Do you guess it? Don't tell him;
                    but if he would, I should have a better
                    opinion of myself ever after. I'm afraid he'll depreciate me to his friend; and
                    really with Mr. Thorndale, I was no more foolish than a ball requires.’
                Lady Eveleen hoped in vain. Captain Morville danced with little Lady Helen, a
                    child of eleven, who was enchanted at having so tall a partner; then, after
                    standing still for some time, chose his cousin Amabel.
                ‘You are a good partner and neighbour,’ said he, giving her his arm, ‘you don't
                    want young lady talk.’
                ‘Should you not have asked Mary? She has been sitting down this long time.’
                ‘Do you think she cares for such a sport as dancing?’
                Amy made no answer.
                ‘You have been well off. You were dancing with Thorndale just now.’
                ‘Yes. It was refreshing to have an old acquaintance among so many strangers. And
                    he is so delighted with Eveleen; but what is more, Philip, that Mr. Vernon, who
                    is dancing with Laura, told Maurice he thought her the prettiest and most
                    elegant person here.’
                ‘Laura might have higher praise,’ said Philip, ‘for hers is beauty of countenance
                    even more than of feature. If only—’
                ‘If?’ said Amy.
                ‘Look round, Amy, and you will see many a face which speaks of intellect wasted,
                    or, if cultivated, turned aside from its true purpose, like the double blossom,
                    which bears leaves alone.’
                ‘Ah! you forget you are talking to silly little Amy. I can't see all that. I had
                    rather think people as happy and good as they look.’
                ‘Keep your child-like temper as long as you can—all your life, perhaps, for this
                    is one of the points where it is folly to be wise.’
                ‘Then you only meant things in general. Nothing about Laura?’
                
                ‘Things in general,’ repeated Philip; ‘bright promises blighted or thrown
                    away—’
                But he spoke absently, and his eye was following Laura. Amy thought he was
                    thinking of his sister, and was sorry for him. He spoke no more, but she did not
                    regret it, for she could not moralize in such a scene, and the sight and the
                    dancing were pleasure enough.
                Guy, in the meantime, had met an Oxford acquaintance, who introduced him to his
                    sisters—pretty girls—whose father Mr. Edmonstone knew, but who was rather out of
                    the Hollywell visiting distance. They fell into conversation quickly, and the
                    Miss Alstons asked him with some interest, ‘Which was the pretty Miss
                    Edmonstone?’ Guy looked for the sisters, as if to make up his mind, for the fact
                    was, that when he first knew Laura and Amy, the idea of criticising beauty had
                    not entered his mind, and to compare them was quite a new notion. ‘Nay,’ said he
                    at last, ‘if you cannot discover for yourselves when they are both before your
                    eyes, I will do nothing so invidious as to say which is the pretty
                    one. I'll tell which is the eldest and which the youngest, but the rest you must
                    decide for yourself.’
                ‘I should like to know them,’ said Miss Alston. ‘Oh! they are both very
                    nice-looking girls.’
                ‘There, that is Laura—Miss Edmonstone,’ said Guy, ‘that tall young lady, with the
                    beautiful hair and jessamine wreath.’
                He spoke as if he was proud of her, and had a property in her. The tone did not
                    escape Philip, who at that moment was close to them, with Amy on his arm; and,
                    knowing the Alstons slightly, stopped and spoke, and introduced his cousin, Miss
                    Amabel Edmonstone. At the same time Guy took one of the Miss Alstons away to get
                    some tea.
                ‘So you knew my cousin at Oxford?’ said Philip, to the brother.
                ‘Yes, slightly. What an amusing fellow he is!’
                
                ‘There is something very bright, very unlike other people about him,’ said Miss
                    Alston.
                ‘How does he get on? Is he liked?’
                ‘Why, yes, I should say so, on the whole; but it is rather as my sister says, he
                    is not like other people.’
                ‘In what respect?’
                ‘Oh I can hardly tell. He is a very pleasant person, but he ought to have been at
                    school. He is a man of crotchets.’
                ‘Hard-working?’
                ‘Very; he makes everything give way to that. He is a capital companion when he is
                    to be had, but he lives very much to himself. He is a man of one friend, and I
                    don't see much of him.’
                Another dance began, Mr. Alston went to look for his partner, Philip and Amy
                    moved on in search of ice. ‘Hum!’ said Philip to himself, causing Amy to gaze up
                    at him, but he was musing too intently for her to venture on a remark. She was
                    thinking that she did not wonder that strangers deemed Guy crotchety, since he
                    was so difficult to understand; and then she considered whether to take him to
                    see King Charles, in the library, and concluded that she would wait, for she
                    felt as if the martyr king's face would look on her too gravely to suit her
                    present tone.
                Philip helped her to ice, and brought her back to her mother's neighbourhood
                    without many more words. He then stood thoughtful for some time, entered into
                    conversation with one of the elder gentlemen, and, when that was interrupted,
                    turned to talk to his aunt.
                Lady Eveleen and her two cousins were for a moment together. ‘What is the matter,
                    Eva?’ said Amy, seeing a sort of dissatisfaction on her bright face.
                ‘The roc's egg?’ said Laura, smiling. ‘The queen of the evening can't be
                    content—’
                ‘No; you are the queen, if the one thing can make you so—the one thing wanting to
                    me.’
                
                ‘How absurd you are, Eva—when you say you are so afraid of him, too.’
                ‘That is the very reason. I should get a better opinion of myself! Besides, there
                    is nobody else so handsome. I declare I'll make a bold attempt.’
                ‘Oh! you don't think of such a thing,’ cried Laura, very much shocked.
                ‘Never fear,’ said Eveleen, ‘faint heart, you know.’ And with a nod, a flourish,
                    of her bouquet, and an arch smile at her cousin's horror, she moved on, and
                    presently they heard her exclaiming, gaily, ‘Captain Morville, I really must
                    scold you. You are setting a shocking example of laziness! Aunt Edmonstone, how
                    can you encourage such proceedings! Indolence is the parent of vice, you
                    know.’
                Philip smiled just as much as the occasion required, and answered, ‘I beg your
                    pardon, I had forgotten my duty. I'll attend to my business better in future.’
                    And turning to a small, shy damsel, who seldom met with a partner, he asked her
                    to dance. Eveleen came back to Laura with a droll disappointed gesture. ‘Insult
                    to injury,’ said she, disconsolately.
                ‘Of course,’ said Amy, ‘he could not have thought you wanted to dance with him,
                    or you would not have gone to stir him up.’
                ‘Well, then, he was very obtuse.’
                ‘Besides, you are engaged.’
                ‘O yes, to Mr. Thorndale! But who would be content with the squire when the
                    knight disdains her?’
                Mr. Thorndale came to claim Eveleen at that moment. It was the second time she
                    had danced with him, and it did not pass unobserved by Philip, nor the long walk
                    up and down after the dance was over. At length his friend came up to him and
                    said something warm in admiration of her. ‘She is very Irish,’ was Philip's
                    answer, with a cold smile, and Mr. Thorndale stood uncomfortable under the
                    disapprobation, attracted by Eveleen's beauty and grace, yet so unused to
                        trust his own judgment apart from
                    ‘Morville's,’ as to be in an instant doubtful whether he really admired or
                    not.
                ‘You have not been dancing with her?’ he said, presently.
                ‘No—she attracts too many to need the attention of a nobody like myself.’
                That ‘too many,’ seeming to confound him with the vulgar herd, made Mr. Thorndale
                    heartily ashamed of having been pleased with her.
                Philip was easy about him for the present, satisfied that admiration had been
                    checked, which, if it had been allowed to grow into an attachment, would have
                    been very undesirable.
                The suspicions Charles had excited were so full in Philip's mind, however, that
                    he could not as easily set it at rest respecting his cousin. Guy had three times
                    asked her to dance, but each time she had been engaged. At last, just as the
                    clock struck the hour at which the carriage had been ordered, he came up, and
                    impetuously claimed her. ‘One quadrille we must have, Laura! if you are not
                    tired?’
                ‘No! O no! I could dance till this time to-morrow.’
                ‘We ought to be going,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone.
                ‘O pray, Mrs. Edmonstone, this one more,’ cried Guy, eagerly. ‘Laura owes me this
                    one.’
                ‘Yes, this one more, mamma,’ said Laura, and they went off together, while Philip
                    remained, in a reverie, till requested by his aunt to see if the carriage was
                    ready.
                The dance was over, the carriage was waiting, but Guy and Laura did not appear
                    till, after two or three minutes spent in wonder and inquiries, they came
                    quietly walking back from the library, where they had been looking at King
                    Charles.
                All the way home the four ladies in the carriage never ceased laughing and
                    talking. The three gentlemen in theirs acted diversely. Mr. Edmonstone went to
                    sleep, Philip sat in silent thought, Guy whistled and hummed the tunes, and moved his foot very much as if
                    he was still dancing.
                They met for a moment, and parted again in the hall at Hollywell, where the
                    daylight was striving to get in through the closed shutters. Philip went on to
                    Broadstone, Guy said he could not go to bed by daylight, called Bustle, and went
                    to the river to bathe, and the rest crept up-stairs to their rooms. And so ended
                    Lord Kilcoran's ball.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER VIII.
                
                    
                        
                            
                                Like Alexander, I will reign,
                                And I will reign alone,
                                My thoughts shall ever more disdain
                                A rival near my throne.
                                But I must rule and govern still,
                                And always give the law,
                                And have each subject at my will,
                                And all to stand in awe.
                            
                        
                        —MONTROSE.
                    
                
                ONE very hot afternoon, shortly after the ball, Captain
                    Morville walked to Hollywell, accelerating his pace under the influence of
                    anxious reflections.
                He could not determine whether Charles had spoken in jest; but in spite of Guy's
                    extreme youth, he feared there was ground for the suspicion excited by the hint,
                    and was persuaded that such an attachment could produce nothing but unhappiness
                    to his cousin, considering how little confidence could be placed in Guy. He
                    perceived that there was much to inspire affection—attractive qualities, amiable
                    disposition, the talent for music, and now this recently discovered power of
                    versifying, all were in Guy's favour, besides the ancient name and long
                    ancestry, which conferred a romantic interest, and caused even Philip to look up
                    to him with a feudal feeling as head of the family. There was also the familiar
                    intercourse to increase the danger; and Philip, as he reflected on these things,
                    trembled for Laura, and felt himself her only protector; for his uncle was
                    nobody, Mrs. Edmonstone was infatuated, and Charles would not listen to reason.
                    To make everything worse, he had that morning
                    heard that there was to be a grand inspection of the regiment, and a
                    presentation of colours; Colonel Deane was very anxious; and it was plain that
                    in the interval the officers would be allowed little leisure. The whole affair
                    was to end with a ball, which would lead to a repetition of what had already
                    disturbed him.
                Thus meditating, Philip, heated and dusty, walked into the smooth green enclosure
                    of Hollywell. Everything, save the dancing clouds of insect youth which whirled
                    in his face, was drooping in the heat. The house—every door and window
                    opened—seemed gasping for breath; the cows sought refuge in the shade; the pony
                    drooped its head drowsily; the leaves hung wearily; the flowers were faint and
                    thirsty; and Bustle was stretched on the stone steps, mouth open, tongue out,
                    only his tail now and then moving, till he put back his ears and crested his
                    head to greet the arrival. Philip heard the sounds that had caused the motion of
                    the sympathizing tail—the rich tones of Guy's voice. Stepping over the dog, he
                    entered, and heard more clearly— 
                        
                            ‘Two loving hearts may sever,
                            For sorrow fails them never.’
                        
                     And then another voice— 
                        
                            ‘Who knows not love in sorrow's night,
                            He knows not love in light.’
                        
                    
                In the drawing-room, cool and comfortable in the green shade of the Venetian
                    blinds of the bay window, stood Laura, leaning on the piano, close to Guy, who
                    sat on the music-stool, looking thoroughly at home in his brown shooting-coat,
                    and loosely-tied handkerchief.
                Any one but Philip would have been out of temper, but he shook hands as cordially
                    as usual, and would not even be the first to remark on the heat.
                Laura told him he looked hot and tired, and invited him to come out to the
                    others, and cool himself on the lawn. She went
                    for her parasol, Guy ran for her camp stool, and Philip, going to the piano,
                    read what they had been singing. The lines were in Laura's writing, corrected,
                    here and there, in Guy's hand.
                
                    
                        
                            
                                BE STEADFAST.
                                
                                    TWO loving hearts may sever,
                                    Yet love shall fail them never.
                                    Love brightest beams in sorrow's night,
                                    Love is of life the light.
                                
                                
                                    Two loving hearts may sever,
                                    Yet hope shall fail them never.
                                    Hope is a star in sorrow's night,—
                                    Forget-me-not of light.
                                
                                
                                    Two loving hearts may sever,
                                    Yet faith may fail them never.
                                    Trust on through sorrow's night,
                                    Faith is of love and hope the light.
                                
                                
                                    Two loving hearts may sever,
                                    For sorrow fails them never.
                                    Who knows not love in sorrow's night,
                                    He knows not love in light.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                Philip was by no means pleased. However, it was in anything but a sentimental
                    manner that Guy, looking over him, said, ‘For sever, read, be separated, but ‘a’
                    wouldn't rhyme.’
                ‘I translated it into prose, and Guy made it verse,’ said Laura; ‘I hope you
                    approve of our performance.’
                ‘It is that thing of Helm von Chezy, Beharre, is it not?’ said
                    Philip, particularly civil, because he was so much annoyed. ‘You have rendered
                    the spirit very well, but you have sacrificed a good deal to your double
                    rhymes.’
                ‘Yes; those last lines are not troubled with any equality of feet,’ said Guy;
                    ‘but the repetition is half the beauty. It put me in mind of those lines of
                        Burns—
                    
                        
                            ‘Had we never loved so kindly,
                            Had we never loved so blindly,
                            Never met and never parted,
                            We had ne'er been broken hearted;’
                        
                     but there is a trust in these that is more touching than that despair.’
                ‘Yes; the despair is ready to wish the love had never been,’ said Laura. ‘It does
                    not see the star of trust. Why did you use that word ‘trust’ only once,
                    Guy?’
                ‘I did not want to lose the three—faith, hope, love,—faith keeping the other two
                    alive.’
                ‘My doubt was whether it was right to have that analogy.’
                ‘Surely,’ said Guy, eagerly, ‘that analogy must be the best part of earthly
                    love?’
                Here Charlotte came to see if Guy and Laura meant to sing all the afternoon; and
                    they went out. They found the others in the arbour, and Charlotte's histories of
                    its construction, gave Philip little satisfaction. They next proceeded to talk
                    over the ball.
                ‘Ah!’ said Philip, ‘balls are the fashion just now. What do you say, Amy, [he was
                    more inclined to patronize her than any one else] to the gaieties we are going
                    to provide for you?’
                ‘You! Are you going to have your new colours? Oh! you are not going to give us a
                    ball?’
                ‘Well! that is fun!’ cried Guy. ‘What glory Maurice de Courcy must be in!’
                ‘He is gone to Allonby,’ said Philip, ‘to announce it; saying, he must persuade
                    his father to put off their going to Brighton. Do you think he will
                    succeed?’
                ‘Hardly,’ said Laura; ‘poor Lady Kilcoran was so knocked up by their ball, that
                    she is the more in want of sea air. Oh, mamma, Eva must come and stay here.’
                ‘That she must,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone; ‘that will make it easy. She is the only
                    one who will care about the ball.’
                Philip was obliged to conceal his vexation, and to answer the many eager questions about the
                    arrangements. He stayed to dinner, and as the others went in-doors to dress, he
                    lingered near Charlotte, assuming, with some difficulty, an air of indifference,
                    and said—‘Well, Charlotte, did you tease Guy into showing you those verses?’
                ‘Oh yes,’ said Charlotte, with what the French call un
                        air capable.
                ‘Well, what were they?’
                ‘That I mustn't tell. They were very pretty; but I've promised.’
                ‘Promised what?’
                ‘Never to say anything about them. He made it a condition with me, and I assure
                    you, I am to be trusted.’
                ‘Right,’ said Philip; ‘I'll ask no more.’
                ‘It would be of no use,’ said Charlotte, shaking her head, as if she wished he
                    would prove her further.
                Philip was in hopes of being able to speak to Laura after dinner, but his uncle
                    wanted him to come and look over the plans of an estate adjoining Redclyffe,
                    which there was some idea of purchasing. Such an employment would in general
                    have been congenial; but on this occasion, it was only by a strong force that he
                    could chain his attention, for Guy was pacing the terrace with Laura and Amabel,
                    and as they passed and repassed the window, he now and then caught sounds of
                    repeating poetry.
                In this Guy excelled. He did not read aloud well; he was too rapid, and eyes and
                    thoughts were apt to travel still faster than the lips, thus producing a
                    confusion; but no one could recite better when a passage had taken strong hold
                    of his imagination, and he gave it the full effect of the modulations of his
                    fine voice, conveying in its inflections the impressions which stirred him
                    profoundly. He was just now enchanted with his first reading of ‘Thalaba,’ where
                    he found all manner of deep meanings, to which the sisters listened with wonder
                    and delight. He repeated, in a low, awful,
                    thrilling tone, that made Amy shudder, the lines in the seventh book, ending
                    with— 
                        
                            ‘Who comes from the bridal chamber?
                            It is Azrael, angel of death.’
                        
                    
                ‘You have not been so taken up with any book since Sintram,’ said Laura.
                ‘It is like Sintram,’ he replied.
                ‘Like it?’
                ‘So it seems to me. A strife with the powers of darkness; the victory,
                    forgiveness, resignation, death. 
                        
                            ‘Thou know'st the secret wishes of my heart,
                            Do with me as thou wilt, thy will is best.’
                        
                    
                ‘I wish you would not speak as if you were Thalaba yourself,’ said Amy, ‘you
                    bring the whole Domdaniel round us.’
                ‘I am afraid he is going to believe himself Thalaba as well as Sintram,’ said
                    Laura. ‘But you know Southey did not see all this himself, and did not
                    understand it when it was pointed out.’
                ‘Don't tell us that,’ said Amy.
                ‘Nay; I think there is something striking in it,’ said Guy then, with a sudden
                    transition, ‘but is not this ball famous?’
                And their talk was of balls and reviews till nine o'clock, when they were
                    summoned to tea.
                On the whole, Philip returned to Broadstone by no means comforted.
                Never had he known so much difficulty in attending with patience to his duties as
                    in the course of the next fortnight. They became a greater durance, as he at
                    length looked his feelings full in the face, and became aware of their true
                    nature.
                He perceived that the loss of Laura would darken his whole existence; yet he
                    thought that, were he only secure of her happiness, he could have resigned her
                    in silence. Guy was, however, one of the last men in the world whom he could
                    bear to see in possession of her; and probably
                    she was allowing herself to be entangled, if not in heart, at least in manner.
                    If so, she should not be unwarned. He had been her guide from childhood, and he
                    would not fail her now.
                Three days before the review, he succeeded in finding time for a walk to
                    Hollywell, not fully decided on the part he should act, though resolved on
                    making some remonstrance. He was crossing a stile, about a mile and a half from
                    Hollywell, when he saw a lady sitting on the stump of a tree, sketching, and
                    found that fate had been so propitious as to send Laura thither alone. The rest
                    had gone to gather mushrooms on a down, and had left her sketching the view of
                    the spires of Broadstone, in the cleft between the high green hills. She was
                    very glad to see him, and held up her purple and olive washes to be criticized;
                    but he did not pay much attention to them. He was almost confused at the sudden
                    manner in which the opportunity for speaking had presented itself.
                ‘It is a long time since I have seen you,’ said he, at last.
                ‘An unheard-of time.’
                ‘Still longer since we have had any conversation.’
                ‘I was just thinking so. Not since that hot hay-making, when Guy came home.
                    Indeed, we have had so much amusement lately that I have hardly had time for
                    thought. Guy says we are all growing dissipated.’
                ‘Ah! your German, and dancing, and music, do not agree with thought.’
                ‘Poor music!’ said Laura, smiling. ‘But I am ready for a lecture; I have been
                    feeling more like a butterfly than I like.’
                ‘I know you think me unjust about music, and I freely confess that I cannot
                    estimate the pleasure it affords, but I doubt whether it is a safe pleasure. It
                    forms common ground for persons who would otherwise have little in common, and
                    leads to intimacies which occasion results never looked for.’
                
                ‘Yes,’ said Laura, receiving it as a general maxim.
                ‘Laura, you complain of feeling like a butterfly. Is not that a sign that you
                    were made for better things?’
                ‘But what can I do? I try to read early and at night, but I can't prevent the fun
                    and gaiety; and, indeed, I don't think I would. It is innocent, and we never had
                    such a pleasant summer. Charlie is so—so much more equable, and mamma is more
                    easy about him, and I can't help thinking it does them all good, though I do
                    feel idle.’
                ‘It is innocent, it is right for a little while,’ said Philip; ‘but your
                    dissatisfaction proves that you are superior to such things. Laura, what I fear
                    is, that this summer holiday may entangle you, and so fix your fate as to render
                    your life no holiday. O Laura! take care; know what you are doing!’
                ‘What am I doing?’ asked Laura, with an alarmed look of ingenuous surprise.
                Never had it been so hard to maintain his composure as now, when her simplicity
                    forced him to come to plainer terms. ‘I must speak,’ he continued, ‘because no
                    one else will. Have you reflected whither this may tend? This music, this
                    versifying, this admitting a stranger so unreservedly into your pursuits?’
                She understood now, and hung her head. He would have given worlds to judge of the
                    face hidden by her bonnet; but as she did not reply, he spoke on, his agitation
                    becoming so strong, that the struggle was perceptible in the forced calmness of
                    his tone. ‘I would not say a word if he were worthy, but Laura—Laura, I have
                    seen Locksley Hall acted once; do not let me see it again in a way which—which
                    would give me infinitely more pain.’
                The faltering of his voice, so resolutely subdued, touched her extremely, and a
                    thrill of exquisite pleasure glanced through her, on hearing confirmed what she
                    had long felt, that she had taken Margaret's place—nay, as she now learnt, that
                    she was even more precious to him. She only thought of reassuring him.
                
                ‘No, you need never fear that. He has no such thought, I am sure.’
                    She blushed deeply, but looked in his face. ‘He treats us both alike; besides,
                    he is so young.’
                ‘The mischief is not done,’ said Philip, trying to resume his usual tone; ‘I only
                    meant to speak in time. You might let your manner go too far; you might even
                    allow your affections to be involved without knowing it, if you were not on your
                    guard.’
                ‘Never!’ said Laura. ‘Oh, no; I could never dream of that with Guy.
                    I like Guy very much; I think better of him than you do; but oh, no; he could
                    never be my first and best; I could never care for him in that way.
                    How could you think so, Philip?’
                ‘Laura, I cannot but look on you with what may seem over-solicitude. Since I lost
                    Fanny, and worse than lost Margaret, you have been my home; my first, my most
                    precious interest. O, Laura,’ and he did not even attempt to conceal the
                    trembling and tenderness of his voice, ‘could I bear to lose you, to see you
                    thrown away or changed—you, dearest, best of all?’
                Laura did not turn away her head this time, but raising her beautiful face,
                    glowing with such a look as had never beamed there before, while tears rose to
                    her eyes, she said, ‘Don't speak of my changing towards you. I never could; for
                    if there is anything to care for in me, it is you that have taught it to
                    me.’
                If ever face plainly told another that he was her first and best, Laura's did so
                    now. Away went misgivings, and he looked at her in happiness too great for
                    speech, at least, he could not speak till he had mastered his emotion, but his
                    countenance was sufficient reply. Even then, in the midst of this flood of
                    ecstasy, came the thought, ‘What have I done?’
                He had gone further than he had ever intended. It was a positive avowal of love;
                    and what would ensue? Cessation of intercourse with her, endless vexations, the
                    displeasure of her family, loss of influence, contempt, and from Mr. Edmonstone,
                    for the pretensions of a penniless soldier.
                    His joy was too great to be damped, but it was rendered cautious. ‘Laura, my
                    own!’ (what delight the words gave her,) ‘you have made me very happy. We know
                    each other now, and trust each other for ever.’
                ‘O yes, yes; nothing can alter what has grown up with us.’
                ‘It is for ever!’ repeated Philip. ‘But, Laura, let us be content with our own
                    knowledge of what we are to each other. Do not let us call in others to see our
                    happiness.’
                Laura looked surprised, for she always considered any communication about his
                    private feelings too sacred to be repeated, and wondered he should think the
                    injunction necessary. ‘I never can bear to talk about the best kinds of
                    happiness,’ said she; ‘but oh!’ and she sprang up, ‘here they come.’
                Poor Mrs. Edmonstone, as she walked back from her mushroom-field, she little
                    guessed that words had been spoken which would give the colouring to her
                    daughter's whole life—she little guessed that her much-loved and esteemed nephew
                    had betrayed her confidence!
                As she and the girls came up, Philip advanced to meet them, that Laura might have
                    a few moments to recover, while with an effort he kept himself from appearing
                    absent in the conversation that ensued. It was brief, for having answered some
                    questions with regard to the doings on the important day, he said, that since he
                    had met them he would not come on to Hollywell, and bade them farewell, giving
                    Laura a pressure of the hand which renewed the glow on her face.
                He walked back, trying to look through the dazzling haze of joy so as to see his
                    situation clearly. It was impossible for him not to perceive that there had been
                    an absolute declaration of affection, and that he had established a private
                    understanding with his cousin. It was not, however, an engagement, nor did he at
                    present desire to make it so. It was impossible for him as yet to marry, and he
                    was content to wait 
                        with-
                        without
                     out a promise, since that could not
                    add to his entire reliance on Laura. He could not bear to be rejected by her
                    parents; he knew his poverty would be the sole ground of objection, and he was
                    not asking her to share it. He believed sincerely that a long, lingering
                    attachment to himself would be more for her good than a marriage with one who
                    would have been a high prize for worldly aims, and was satisfied that by winning
                    her heart he had taken the only sure means of securing her from becoming
                    attached to Guy, while secrecy was the only way of preserving his intercourse
                    with her on the same footing, and exerting his influence over the family.
                It was calmly reflected, for Philip's love was tranquil, though deep and steady,
                    and the rather sought to preserve Laura as she was than to make her anything
                    more; and this very calmness contributed to his self-deception on this first
                    occasion that he had ever actually swerved from the path of right.
                With an uncomfortable sensation, he met Guy riding home from his tutor, entirely
                    unsuspicious. He stopped and talked of the preparations at Broadstone, where he
                    had been over the ground with Maurice de Courcy, and had heard the band.
                ‘What did you think of it? said Philip, absently.
                ‘They should keep better time! Really, Philip, there is one fellow
                    with a bugle that ought to be flogged every day of his life!’ said Guy, making a
                    droll, excruciated face.
                How a few words can change the whole current of ideas. The band was connected
                    with Philip, therefore he could not bear to hear it found fault with, and
                    adduced some one's opinion that the man in question was one of the best of their
                    musicians.
                Guy could not help shrugging his shoulders, as he laughed, and said,—‘Then I
                    shall be obliged to take to my heels if I meet the rest. Good-bye.’
                ‘How conceited they have made that boy about his fine ear,’ thought Philip. ‘I
                    wonder he is not ashamed to parade his music, considering whence it is
                    derived.’
            
            
                
                CHAPTER IX.
                
                    
                        
                            
                                Ah! county Guy, the hour is nigh,
                                The sun has left the lea,
                                The orange flower perfumes the bower,
                                The breeze is on the sea.
                                The lark, his lay, who thrilled all day,
                                Sits hushed, his partner nigh,
                                Breeze, bird, and flower, confess the hour,
                                But where is county Guy?
                            
                        
                        —SCOTT.
                    
                
                HOW was it meantime with Laura? The others were laughing and
                    talking round her, but all seemed lost in the transcendent beam that had shone
                    out on her. To be told by Philip that she was all to him that he had always been
                    to her! This one idea pervaded her—too glorious, too happy for utterance, almost
                    for distinct thought. The softening of his voice, and the look with which he had
                    regarded her, recurred again and again, startling her with a sudden surprise of
                    joy almost as at the first moment. Of the future Laura thought not. Never had a
                    promise of love been made with less knowledge of what it amounted to; it seemed
                    merely an expression of sentiments that she had never been without; for had she
                    not always looked up to Philip more than any other living creature, and gloried
                    in being his favourite cousin? Ever since the time when he explained to her the
                    plates in the Encyclopædia, and made her read ‘Joyce's Scientific Dialogues,’
                    when Amy took fright at the first page. That this might lead further did not
                    occur to her; she was eighteen, she had no experience, not even in novels, she did not know what she had done; and above
                    all, she had so learnt to surrender her opinions to Philip, and to believe him
                    always right, that she would never have dreamt of questioning wherever he might
                    choose to lead her. Even the caution of secrecy did not alarm her, though she
                    wondered that he thought it required, safe as his confidence always was with
                    her. Mrs. Edmonstone had been so much occupied by Charles's illness, as to have
                    been unable to attend to her daughters in their girlish days; and in the
                    governess's time the habit had been disused of flying at once to her with every
                    joy or grief. Laura's thoughts were not easy of access, and Philip had long been
                    all in all to her. She was too ignorant of life to perceive that it was her duty
                    to make this conversation known; or, more truly, she did not awaken her mind to
                    consider that anything could be wrong that Philip desired.
                On coming home, she ran up to her own room, and sitting by the open window, gave
                    herself up to that delicious dream of new-found joy.
                There she still sat when Amy came in, opening the door softly, and treading
                    lightly and airily as she entered, bringing two or three roses of different
                    tints.
                ‘Laura! not begun to dress?’
                ‘Is it time?’
                ‘Shall I answer you according to what Philip calls my note of time, and tell you
                    the pimpernels are closed, and the tigridias dropping their leaves? It would be
                    a proper answer for you; you look as if you were in Fairy Land.’
                ‘Is papa come home?’
                ‘Long ago! and Guy too. Why, where could you have been, not to have heard Guy and
                    Eveleen singing the Irish melodies?’
                ‘In a trance,’ said Laura, starting up, and laughing, with a slight degree of
                    constraint, which caused Amy, who was helping her to dress, to exclaim, ‘Has
                    anything happened, Laura?’
                ‘What should have happened?’
                
                ‘I can't guess, unless the fairies in the great ring on Ashendown came to visit
                    you when we were gone. But seriously, dear Laura, are you sure you are not
                    tired? Is nothing the matter?’
                ‘Nothing at all, thank you. I was only thinking over the talk I had with
                    Philip.’
                ‘Oh!’
                Amy never thought of entering into Philip's talks with Laura, and was perfectly
                    satisfied.
                By this time Laura was herself again, come back to common life, and resolved to
                    watch over her intercourse with Guy; since, though she was convinced that all
                    was safe at present, she had Philip's word for it that there might be danger in
                    continuing the pleasant freedom of their behaviour.
                Nothing could be more reassuring than Guy's demeanour. His head seemed entirely
                    full of the Thursday, and of a plan of his own for enabling Charles to go to the
                    review. It had darted into his head while he was going over the ground with
                    Maurice. It was so long since Charles had thought it possible to attempt any
                    amusement away from home, and former experiments had been so unsuccessful, that
                    it had never even occurred to him to think of it; but he caught at the idea with
                    great delight and eagerness. Mrs. Edmonstone seemed not to know what to say; she
                    had much rather that it had not been proposed; yet it was very kind of Guy, and
                    Charles was so anxious about it that she knew not how to oppose him.
                She could not bear to have Charles in a crowd, helpless as he was; and she had an
                    unpleasing remembrance of the last occasion when they had taken him to a
                    flower-show, where they had lost, first Mr. Edmonstone, next the carriage, and
                    lastly, Amy and Charlotte—all had been frightened, and Charles laid up for three
                    days from the fatigue.
                Answers, however, met each objection. Charles was much stronger; Guy's arm would
                    be ready for him; Guy would find the carriage. Philip would be there to help, besides Maurice; and whenever Charles was
                    tired, Guy would take him home at once, without spoiling any one's pleasure.
                ‘Except your own,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone.
                ‘Thank you; but this would be so delightful.’
                ‘Ah!’ said Charles, ‘it would be as great a triumph as the dog's that caught the
                    hare with the clog round his neck—the dog's, I mean.’
                ‘If you will but trust me with him,’ said Guy, turning on her all the pleading
                    eloquence of his eyes; ‘you know he can get in and out of the pony-carriage
                    quite easily.’
                ‘As well as walk across the room,’ said Charles.
                ‘I would drive him in it, and tell William to ride in and be at hand to hold the
                    pony or take it out; and the tent is so near, that you could get to the
                    breakfast, unless the review had been enough for you. I paced the distance to
                    make sure, and it is no further than from the garden-door to the
                    cherry-tree.’
                ‘That is nothing,’ said Charles.
                ‘And William shall be in waiting to bring the pony the instant you are ready, and
                    we can go home independently of every one else.’
                ‘I thought,’ interposed Mrs. Edmonstone, ‘that you were to go to the
                    mess-dinner—what is to become of that?’
                ‘O,’ said Charles, ‘that will be simply a bore, and he may rejoice to be excused
                    from going the whole hog.’
                ‘To be sure, I had rather dine in peace at home.’
                Mrs. Edmonstone was not happy, but she had great confidence in Guy; and her only
                    real scruple was, that she did not think it fair to occupy him entirely with
                    attendance on her son. She referred it to papa, which, as every one knew, was
                    the same as yielding the point, and consoled herself by the certainty that to
                    prevent it would be a great disappointment to both the youths. Laura was
                    convinced that to achieve the adventure of Charles at the review, was at present
                    at least a matter of far more prominence with Guy than anything relating to
                    herself.
                
                All but Laura and her mother were wild about the weather, especially on
                    Wednesday, when there was an attempt at a thunder storm. Nothing was studied but
                    the sky; and the conversation consisted of prognostications, reports of rises
                    and falls of the glass, of the way weather-cocks were turning, or about to turn,
                    of swallows flying high or low, red sunsets, and halos round the moon, until at
                    last Guy, bursting into a merry laugh, begged Mrs. Edmonstone's pardon for being
                    such a nuisance, and made a vow, and kept it, that be the weather what it might,
                    he would say not another word about it that evening; it deserved to be
                    neglected, for he had not been able to settle to anything all day.
                He might have said for many days before; for since the last ball, and still more
                    since Lady Eveleen had been at Hollywell, it had been one round of merriment and
                    amusement. Scrambling walks, tea-drinkings out of doors, dances among
                    themselves, or with the addition of the Harpers, were the order of the day. Amy,
                    Eveleen, and Guy, could hardly come into the room without dancing, and the piano
                    was said to acknowledge nothing but waltzes, polkas, and now and then an Irish
                    jig, for the special benefit of Mr. Edmonstone's ears. The morning was almost as
                    much spent in mirth as the afternoon, for the dawdlings after breakfast, and
                    before luncheon, had a great tendency to spread out and meet, there was new
                    music and singing to be practised, or preparations made for evening's diversion,
                    or councils to be held, which Laura's absence could not break up, though it
                    often made Amy feel how much less idle and frivolous Laura was than herself.
                    Eveleen said the same, but she was visiting, and it was a time to be idle; and
                    Mr. Lascelles seemed to be of the same opinion with regard to his pupil; for,
                    when Guy was vexed at not having done as much work as usual, he only laughed at
                    him for expecting to be able to go to balls, and spend a summer of gaiety, while
                    he studied as much as at Oxford.
                
                Thursday morning was all that heart could wish, the air cooled by the thunder,
                    and the clouds looking as if raining was foreign to their nature. Mr. and Mrs.
                    Edmonstone, their daughters, and Lady Eveleen, were packed inside and outside
                    the great carriage, while Guy, carefully settling Charles in the low phaeton,
                    putting in all that any one recommended, from an air-cushion to an umbrella,
                    flourished his whip, and drove off with an air of exultation and delight.
                Everything went off to admiration. No one was more amused than Charles. The scene
                    was so perfectly new and delightful to one accustomed to such a monotonous life,
                    that the very sight of people was a novelty. Nowhere was there so much laughing
                    and talking as in that little carriage, and whenever Mrs. Edmonstone's anxious
                    eye fell upon it, she always saw Charles sitting upright, with a face so full of
                    eager interest as to banish all thought of fatigue. Happy, indeed, he was. He
                    enjoyed the surprise of his acquaintance at meeting him; he enjoyed Dr.
                    Mayerne's laugh and congratulation; he enjoyed seeing how foolish Philip thought
                    him, nodding to his mother and sisters, laughing at the dreadful faces Guy could
                    not help making at any particularly discordant note of the offensive bugle; and
                    his capabilities rising with his spirits, he did all that the others did, walked
                    further than he had done for years, was lifted up steps without knowing how, sat
                    out the whole breakfast, talked to all the world, and well earned the being
                    thoroughly tired, as he certainly was when Guy put him into the carriage and
                    drove him home, and still more so when Guy all but carried him up stairs, and
                    laid him on the sofa in the dressing-room.
                However, his mother announced that it would have been so unnatural if he had not
                    been fatigued, that she should have been more anxious, and leaving him to
                    repose, they all, except Mr. Edmonstone, who had stayed to dine at the mess, sat
                    down to dinner.
                Amy came down dressed just as the carriage had
                    been announced, and found Laura and Eveleen standing by the table, arranging
                    their bouquets, while Guy, in the dark, behind the piano, was playing—not, as
                    usual, in such cases, the Harmonious Blacksmith, but a chant.
                ‘Is mamma ready?’ asked Laura.
                ‘Nearly,’ said Amy, ‘but I wish she was not obliged to go! I am sure she cannot
                    bear to leave Charlie.’
                ‘I hope she is not going on my account,’ said Eveleen.
                ‘No, said Laura, ‘we must go; it would so frighten papa if we did not come.
                    Besides, there is nothing to be uneasy about with Charles.’
                ‘O no,’ said Amy; ‘she says so, only she is always anxious, and she is afraid he
                    is too restless to go to sleep.’
                ‘We must get home as fast as we can; if you don't mind, Eva,’ said Laura,
                    remembering how her last dance with Guy had delayed them.
                ‘Can I do any good to Charlie?’ said Guy, ceasing his music. ‘I don't mean to
                    go.’
                ‘Not go!’ cried the girls in consternation.
                ‘He is joking!’ said Eveleen. ‘But, I declare!’ added she, advancing towards him,
                    ‘he is not dressed! Come, nonsense, this is carrying it too far; you'll make us
                    all too late, and then I'll set Maurice at you.’
                ‘I am afraid it is no joke,’ said Guy, smiling.
                ‘You must go. It will never do for you to stay away,’ said Laura, decidedly.
                ‘Are you tired? Aren't you well?’ asked Amy.
                ‘Quite well, thank you, but I am sure I had better not.’
                Laura thought she had better not seem anxious to take him, so she left the task
                    of persuasion, to the others, and Amy went on.
                ‘Neither Mamma nor Charlie could bear to think you stayed because of him.’
                ‘I don't, I assure you, Amy. I meant it before. I have been gradually finding out
                    that it must come to this.’
                
                ‘Oh, you think it a matter of right and wrong! But you don't think balls
                    wrong?’
                ‘Oh no; only they wont do for such an absurd person as I am. The last turned my
                    head for a week, and I am much too unsteady for this.’
                ‘Well, if you think it a matter of duty, it can't be helped,’ said Amy
                    sorrowfully; ‘but I am very sorry.’
                ‘Thank you,’ said Guy, thinking it compassion, not regret; ‘but I shall do very
                    well. I shall be all the happier to-morrow for a quiet hour at my Greek, and
                    you'll tell me all the fun.’
                ‘You liked it so much!’ said Amy; ‘but you have made up your mind and I ought not
                    to tease you.’
                ‘That's right Amy; he does it on purpose to be teased,’ said Eveleen, ‘and I
                    never knew anybody so provoking. Mind, Sir Guy, if you make us all too late, you
                    shan't have the ghost of a quadrille with me.’
                ‘I shall console myself by quadrilling with Andromache,’ said Guy.
                ‘Come, no nonsense—off to dress directly! How can you have the conscience to
                    stand there when the carriage is at the door?’
                ‘I shall have great pleasure in handing you in when you are ready.’
                ‘Laura—Amy! Does he really mean it?’
                ‘I am afraid he does,’ said Amy.
                Eveleen let herself fall on the sofa as if fainting. ‘Oh,’ she said, ‘take him
                    away! Let me never see the face of him again! I'm perfectly overcome! All my
                    teaching thrown away!’
                ‘I am sorry for you,’ said Guy, laughing.
                ‘And how do you mean to face Maurice?’
                ‘Tell him his first bugle has so distracted me that I can't answer for the
                    consequences if I come to-night.’
                Mrs. Edmonstone came in, saying,—
                ‘Come, I have kept you waiting shamefully, but I have been consoling myself by
                    thinking you must be well entertained, as I heard no Harmonious Blacksmith. Papa
                    will be wondering where we are.’
                
                ‘Oh, mamma! Guy won't go.’
                ‘Guy! is anything the matter?’
                ‘Nothing, thank you, only idleness.’
                ‘This will never do. You really must go, Guy.’
                ‘Indeed! I think not. Pray don't order me, Mrs. Edmonstone.’
                ‘What o'clock is it, Amy? Past ten! Papa will be in despair! What is to be done?
                    How long do you take to dress, Guy?’
                ‘Not under an hour,’ said Guy, smiling.
                ‘Nonsense! But if there was time I should certainly send you. Self-discipline may
                    be carried too far, Guy. But now it can't be helped—I don't know how to keep
                    papa waiting any longer. Laura, what shall I do?’
                ‘Let me go to Charles,’ answered Guy. ‘Perhaps I can read him to sleep.’
                ‘Thank you; but don't talk, or he will be too excited. Reading would be the very
                    thing! It will be a pretty story to tell every one who asks for you that I have
                    left you to nurse my son!’
                ‘No, for no such good reason,’ said Guy; ‘only because I am a great fool.’
                ‘Well, Sir Guy, I am glad you can say one sensible word,’ said Lady Eveleen.
                ‘Too true, I assure you,’ he answered, as he handed her in. ‘Good night! You will
                    keep the quadrille for me till I am rational.’
                He handed the others in, and shut the door. Mrs. Edmonstone, ruffled out of her
                    composure, exclaimed,—
                ‘Well, this is provoking!’
                ‘Every one will be vexed,’ said Laura.
                ‘It will be so stupid,’ said Amy.
                ‘I give him up,’ said Eveleen. ‘I once had hopes of him.’
                ‘If it was not for papa, I really would turn back this moment and fetch him,’
                    cried Mrs. Edmonstone, starting forward. ‘I'm sure it will give offence. I wish
                    I had not consented.’
                
                ‘He can't be made to see that his presence is of importance to any living
                    creature,’ said Laura.
                ‘What is the reason of this whim?’ said Eveleen.
                ‘No, Eveleen, it is not whim,’ said Laura; ‘it is because he thinks dissipation
                    makes him idle.’
                ‘Then if he is idle, I wonder what the rest of the world is!’ said Eveleen. ‘I am
                    sure we all ought to stay at home too.’
                ‘I think so,’ said Amy. ‘I know I shall feel all night as if I was wrong to be
                    there.’
                ‘I am angry,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone; ‘and yet I believe it is a great
                    sacrifice.’
                ‘Yes, mamma; after all our looking forward to it,’ said Amy. ‘Oh! yes,’ and her
                    voice lost its piteous tone, ‘it is a real sacrifice.’
                ‘If he was not a mere boy, I should say a lover's quarrel was at the bottom of
                    it,’ said Eveleen. ‘Depend upon it, Laura, it is all your fault. You only danced
                    once with him at our ball, and all this week you have played for us, as if it
                    was on purpose to cut him.’
                Laura was glad of the darkness, and her mother, who had a particular dislike to
                    jokes of this sort, went on,—‘If it were only ourselves I should not care, but
                    there are so many who will fancy it caprice, or worse.’
                ‘The only comfort is,’ said Amy, ‘that it is Charlie's gain.’
                ‘I hope they will not talk,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone. ‘But Charlie will never hold
                    his tongue. He will grow excited, and not sleep all night.’
                Poor Mrs. Edmonstone! her trials did not end here, for when she replied to her
                    husband's inquiry for Guy, Mr. Edmonstone said offence had already been taken at
                    his absence from the dinner; he would not have had this happen for fifty pounds;
                    she ought not to have suffered it; but it was all her nonsense about Charles,
                    and as to not being late, she should have waited till midnight rather than not
                    have brought him. In short, he said as much more than he meant, as a man in a
                    pet is apt to say, and nevertheless Mrs. Edmonstone had to look as amiable and smiling as if nothing was the
                    matter.
                The least untruthful answer she could frame to the inquiries for Sir Guy Morville
                    was, that young men were apt to be lazy about balls, and this sufficed for
                    good-natured Mrs. Deane, but Maurice poured out many exclamations about his
                    ill-behaviour, and Philip contented himself with the mere fact of his not being
                    there, and made no remark.
                Laura turned her eyes anxiously on Philip. They had not met since the important
                    conversation on Ashen-down, and she found herself looking with more pride than
                    ever at his tall, noble figure, as if he was more her own; but the calmness of
                    feeling was gone. She could not meet his eye, nor see him turn towards her
                    without a start and tremor for which she could not render herself a reason, and
                    her heart beat so much that it was at once a relief and a disappointment that
                    she was obliged to accept her other cousin as her first partner. Philip had
                    already asked Lady Eveleen, for he neither wished to appear too eager in
                    claiming Laura, nor to let his friend think he had any dislike to the Irish
                    girl.
                Eveleen was much pleased to have him for her partner, and told herself she would
                    be on her good behaviour. It was a polka, and there was not much talk, which,
                    perhaps, was all the better for her. She admired the review, and the luncheon,
                    and spoke of Charles without any sauciness, and Philip was condescending and
                    agreeable.
                ‘I must indulge myself in abusing that stupid cousin of yours!’ said she. ‘Did
                    you ever know a man of such wonderful crotchets?’
                ‘This is a very unexpected one,’ said Philip.
                ‘It came like a thunder clap. I thought till the last moment he was joking, for
                    he likes dancing so much; he was the life of our ball, and how could any one
                    suppose he would fly off at the last moment?’
                ‘He seems rather to enjoy doing things suddenly.’
                
                ‘I tell Laura she has affronted him,’ said Eveleen, laughing. ‘She has been
                    always busy of late when we have wanted her; and I assure her his pride has been
                    piqued. Don't you think that is an explanation, Captain Morville?’
                It was Captain Morville's belief, but he would not say so.
                ‘Isn't Laura looking lovely?’ Eveleen went on. ‘I am sure she is the beauty of
                    the night!’ She was pleased to see Captain Morville's attention gained. ‘She is
                    even better dressed than at our ball—those Venetian pins suit the form of her
                    head so well. Her beauty is better than almost any one's, because she has so
                    much countenance.’
                ‘True,’ said Philip.
                ‘How proud Maurice looks of having her on his arm. Does not he? Poor Maurice! he
                    is desperately in love with her!’
                ‘As is shown by his pining melancholy.’
                Eveleen laughed with her clear hearty laugh. ‘I see you know what we mean by
                    being desperately in love! No,’ she added more gravely, ‘I am very glad it is
                    only that kind of desperation. One could not think of Maurice and
                    Laura together. He does not know the best part of Laura.’
                Eveleen was highly flattered by Captain Morville conducting her a second time
                    round the room, instead of at once restoring her to her aunt.
                He secured Laura next, and leading her away from her own party, said, ‘Laura,
                    have yon been overdoing it?’
                ‘It is not that,’ said Laura, wishing she could keep from blushing.
                ‘It is the only motive that could excuse his extraordinary behaviour.’
                ‘Surely you know he says that he is growing unsettled. It is part of his rule of
                    self discipline.’
                ‘Absurd!—exaggerated!—incredible! This is the same story as there was about the
                    horse. It is either caprice or temper, and I
                    am convinced that some change in your manner—nay, I say unconscious, and am far
                    from blaming you—is the cause. Why else did he devote himself to Charles, and
                    leave you all on my uncle's hands in the crowd?’
                ‘We could shift for ourselves much better than Charlie.’
                ‘This confirms my belief that my warning was not mistimed. I wish it could have
                    been done without decidedly mortifying him and rousing his temper, because I am
                    sorry others should be slighted; but if he takes your drawing back so much to
                    heart, it shows that it was time you should do so.’
                ‘If I thought I had!’
                ‘It was visible to others—to another, I should say.’
                ‘O, that is only Eveleen's nonsense! The only difference, I am conscious of
                    having made, was keeping more up stairs, and not trying to persuade him to come
                    here to-night.’
                ‘I have no doubt it was this that turned the scale. He only waited for
                    persuasion, and you acted very wisely in not flattering his self-love.’
                ‘Did I?—I did not know it.’
                ‘A woman's instinct is often better than reasoning, Laura; to do the right thing
                    without knowing why. But come, I suppose we must play our part in the pageant of
                    the night.’
                For that evening Laura, contrary to the evidence of her senses, was persuaded by
                    her own lover that Guy was falling in love with her; and after musing all
                    through the dance, she said, ‘What do you think of the scheme that has been
                    started for my going to Ireland with papa?’
                ‘Your going to Ireland?’
                ‘Yes; you know none of us, except papa, have seen grandmamma since Charles began
                    to be ill, and there is some talk of his taking me with him when he goes this
                    summer.’
                
                ‘I knew he was going, but I thought it was not to be till later in the year—not
                    till after the long vacation.’
                ‘So he intended, but he finds he must be at home before the end of October, and
                    it would suit him best to go in August.’
                ‘Then what becomes of Guy?’
                ‘He stays at Hollywell. It will be much better for Charles to have him there
                    while papa is away. I thought when the plan was first mentioned I should be
                    sorry, except that it is quite right to go to grandmamma; but if it is so, about
                    Guy, this absence would be a good thing—it would make a break, and I could begin
                    again on different terms.’
                ‘Wisely judged, Laura. Yes, on that account it would be very desirable, though it
                    will be a great loss to me, and I can hardly hope to be so near you on your
                    return.’
                ‘Ah! yes, so I feared!’ sighed Laura.
                ‘But we must give up something; and for Guy's own sake, poor fellow, it will be
                    better to make a break, as you say. It will save him pain by-and-by.’
                ‘I dare say papa will consult you about when his journey is to be. His only doubt
                    was whether it would do to leave Guy so long alone; and if you say it would be
                    safe, it would decide him at once.’
                ‘I see little chance of mischief. Guy has few temptations here, and a strong
                    sense of honour; besides, I shall be at hand. Taking all things into
                    consideration, Laura, I think that, whatever the sacrifice to ourselves, it is
                    expedient to recommend his going at once, and your accompanying him.’
                All the remainder of the evening Philip was occupied with attentions to the rest
                    of the world, but Laura's eyes followed him everywhere, and though she neither
                    expected nor desired him to bestow more time on her, she underwent a strange
                    restlessness and impatience of feeling. Her numerous partners teased her by
                        hindering her from watching him moving
                    about the room, catching his tones, and guessing what he was talking of;—not
                    that she wanted to meet his eye, for she did not like to blush, nor did she
                    think it pleased him to see her do so, for he either looked away immediately or
                    conveyed a glance which she understood as monitory. She kept better note of his
                    countenance than of her own partner's.
                Mr. Thorndale, meanwhile, kept aloof from Lady Eveleen de Courcy, but Captain
                    Morville perceived that his eyes were often turned towards her, and well knew it
                    was principle, and not inclination, that held him at a distance. He did indeed
                    once ask her to dance, but she was engaged, and he did not ask her to reserve a
                    future dance for him, but contented himself with little Amy.
                Amy was doing her best to enjoy herself, because she thought it ungrateful not to
                    receive pleasure from those who wished to give it, but to her it wanted the zest
                    and animation of Lady Kilcoran's ball. Besides, she knew she had been as idle as
                    Guy, or still more so, and she thought it wrong she should have pleasure while
                    he was doing penance. It was on her mind, and damped her spirits, and though she
                    smiled, and talked, and admired, and danced lightly and gaily, there was a
                    sensation of weariness throughout, and no one but Eveleen was sorry when Mrs.
                    Edmonstone sent Maurice to see for the carriage.
                Philip was one of the gentlemen who came to shawl them. As he put Laura's cloak
                    round her shoulders he was able to whisper, ‘Take care; you must be
                    cautious—self-command.’
                Laura, though blushing and shrinking the moment before was braced by his words
                    and tone to attempt all he wished. She looked up in what she meant to be an
                    indifferent manner, and made some observation in a careless tone—anything rather
                    than let Philip think her silly. After what he had said, was she not bound more than ever to exert herself to the
                    utmost, that he might not be disappointed in her? She loved him only the better
                    for what others might have deemed a stern coldness of manner, for it made the
                    contrast of his real warmth of affection more precious. She mused over it, as
                    much as her companions' conversation would allow, on the road home. They
                    arrived, Mrs. Edmonstone peeped into Charles's room, announced that he was
                    quietly asleep, and they all bade each other good night, or good morning, and
                    parted.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER X.
                
                    
                        
                            
                                Leonora.
                                Yet often with respect he speaks of thee.
                            
                            
                                Tasso.
                                Thou meanest with forbearance, prudent, subtle,
                                'Tis that annoys me, for he knows to use
                                Language so smooth and so conditional,
                                That seeming praise from him is actual blame.
                            
                        
                        GOETHE'S Tasso.
                    
                
                WHEN the Hollywell party met at breakfast, Charles showed
                    himself by no means the worse for his yesterday's experiment. He said he had
                    gone to sleep in reasonable time, lulled by some poetry, he knew not what, of
                    which Guy's voice had made very pretty music, and he was now full of talk about
                    the amusement he had enjoyed yesterday, which seemed likely to afford food for
                    conversation for many a week to come.
                After all the care Guy had taken of him, Mrs. Edmonstone could not find it in her
                    heart to scold, and her husband having spent his vexation upon her, had none
                    left to bestow on the real culprit. So when Guy, with his bright morning face,
                    and his hair hanging shining and wet round it, opened the dining-room door, on
                    his return from bathing in the river, Mr. Edmonstone's salutation only conveyed
                    that humorous anger that no one cares for.
                ‘Good morning to you, Sir Guy Morville! I wonder what you have to say for
                    yourself.’
                ‘Nothing,’ said Guy, smiling; then, as he took his place by Mrs. Edmonstone, ‘I
                    hope you are not tired after your hard day's work?’
                ‘Not at all, thank you.’
                
                ‘Amy, can you tell me the name of this flower?’
                ‘Oh! have you really found the arrow-head? How beautiful! Where did you get it? I
                    didn't know it grew in our river.’
                ‘There is plenty of it in that reedy place beyond the turn. I thought it looked
                    like something out of the common way.’
                ‘Yes! What a purple eye it has! I must draw it. O, thank you.’
                ‘And, Charlotte, Bustle has found you a moorhen's nest.’
                ‘How delightful! Is it where I can go and see the dear little things?’
                ‘It is rather a swamp; but I have been putting down stepping-stones for you, and
                    I dare say I can jump you across. It was that which made me so late, for which I
                    ought to have asked pardon,’ said he to Mrs. Edmonstone, with his look of
                    courtesy.
                Never did man look less like an offended lover, or like a morose
                    self-tormentor.
                ‘There are others later,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone, looking at Lady Eveleen's empty
                    chair.
                ‘So you think that is all you have to ask pardon for,’ said Mr. Edmonstone. ‘I
                    advise you to study your apologies, for you are in pretty tolerable
                    disgrace.’
                ‘Indeed, I am very sorry,’ said Guy, with such a change of countenance that Mr.
                    Edmonstone's good nature could not bear to see it.
                ‘Oh, 'tis no concern of mine! It would be going rather the wrong way, indeed, for
                    you to be begging my pardon for all the care you've been taking of Charlie; but
                    you had better consider what you have to say for yourself before you show your
                    face at Broadstone.’
                ‘No?’ said Guy, puzzled for a moment, but quickly looking relieved, and laughing,
                    ‘What! Broadstone in despair for want of me?’
                ‘And we perfectly exhausted with answering questions as to what was become of Sir
                    Guy.’
                ‘Dreadful,’ said Guy, now laughing heartily, in the persuasion that it was all a joke.
                ‘O, Lady Eveleen, good morning; you are come in good time to give me the story of
                    the ball, for no one else tells me one word about it.’
                ‘Because you don't deserve it,’ said she. ‘I hope you have repented by this
                    time.’
                ‘If you want to make me repent, you should give me a very alluring
                    description.’
                ‘I sha'n't say one word about it; I shall send you to Coventry, as Maurice and
                    all the regiment mean to do,’ said Eveleen, turning away from him with a very
                    droll arch manner of offended dignity.
                ‘Hear, hear! Eveleen send any one to Coventry!’ cried Charles.
                ‘See what the regiment say to you.’
                ‘Ay, when I am sent to Coventry?’
                ‘O, Paddy, Paddy!’ cried Charles, and there was a general laugh.
                ‘Laura seems to be doing it in good earnest without announcing it,’ added
                    Charles, when the laugh was over, ‘which is the worst sign of all.’
                ‘Nonsense, Charles,’ said Laura, hastily; then afraid she had owned to annoyance,
                    she blushed and was angry with herself for blushing.
                ‘Well, Laura, do tell me who your partners were.’
                Very provoking, thought Laura, that I cannot say what is so perfectly natural and
                    ordinary, without my foolish cheeks tingling. He may think it is because he is
                    speaking to me. So she hurried on: ‘Maurice first, then Philip,’ and then
                    showed, what Amy and Eveleen thought, strange oblivion of the rest of her
                    partners.
                They proceeded into the history of the ball; and Guy thought no more of his
                    offences till the following day, when he went to Broadstone. Coming back, he
                    found the drawing-room full of visitors, and was obliged to sit down and join in
                    the conversation; but Mrs. Edmonstone saw he was inwardly chafing, as he betrayed by his inability to remain still, the
                    twitchings of his forehead and lip, and a tripping and stumbling of the words on
                    his tongue. She was sure he wanted to talk to her, and longed to get rid of Mrs.
                    Brownlow; but the door was no sooner shut on the visitors, than Mr. Edmonstone
                    came in, with a long letter for her to read and comment upon. Guy took himself
                    out of the way of the consultation, and began to hurry up and down the terrace,
                    until, seeing Amabel crossing the field towards the little gate into the garden,
                    he went to open it for her.
                She looked up at him, and exclaimed—‘Is anything the matter?’
                ‘Nothing to signify,’ he said; ‘I was only waiting for your mother. I have got
                    into a mess, that is all.’
                ‘I am sorry,’ began Amy, there resting in the doubt whether she might inquire
                    further, and intending not to burthen him with her company any longer than till
                    she reached the house door; but Guy went on,—
                ‘No, you have no occasion to be sorry; it is all my own fault; at least, if I was
                    clear how it is my fault, I should not mind it so much. It is that ball. I am
                    sure I had not the least notion any one would care whether I was there or
                    not.’
                ‘I am sure we missed you very much.’
                ‘You are all so kind; beside, I belong in a manner to you; but what could it
                    signify to any one else? And here I find that I have vexed every one.’
                ‘Ah!’ said Amy, ‘mamma said she was afraid it would give offence.’
                ‘I ought to have attended to her. It was a fit of self-will in managing myself,’
                    said Guy, murmuring low, as if trying to find the real indictment; ‘yet I
                    thought it a positive duty;—wrong every way.’
                ‘What has happened?’ said Amy, turning back with him, though she had reached the
                    door.
                ‘Why, the first person I met was Mr. Gordon; and he spoke, like your father, half
                    in joke, and I thought entirely so; he said something about all the world being in such a rage, that I was a bold man
                    to venture into Broadstone. Then, while I was at Mr. Lascelles', in came Dr.
                    Mayerne. ‘We missed you at the dinner,’ he said; ‘and I hear you shirked the
                    ball, too.’ I told him how it was, and he said he was glad that was all, and
                    advised me to go and call on Colonel Deane and explain. I thought that the best
                    way—indeed, I meant it before, and was walking to his lodgings when Maurice de
                    Courcy met me. ‘Ha!’ he cries out, ‘Morville! I thought at least you would have
                    been laid up for a month with the typhus fever! As a friend, I advise you to go
                    home and catch something, for it is the only excuse that will serve you. I am
                    not quite sure that it will not be high treason for me to be seen speaking to
                    you.’ I tried to get at the rights of it, but he is such a harum-scarum fellow
                    there was no succeeding. Next I met Thorndale, who only bowed and passed on the
                    other side of the street—sign enough how it was with Philip; so I thought it
                    best to go at once to the Captain, and get a rational account of what was the
                    matter.’
                ‘Did you?’ said Amy, who, though concerned and rather alarmed, had been smiling
                    at the humorous and expressive tones with which he could not help giving effect
                    to his narration.
                ‘Yes. Philip was at home, and very—very—’
                ‘Gracious?’ suggested Amy, as he hesitated for a word.
                ‘Just so. Only the vexatious thing was, that we never could succeed in coming to
                    an understanding. He was ready to forgive; but I could not disabuse him of an
                    idea—where he picked it up I cannot guess—that I had stayed away out of pique.
                    He would not even tell me what he thought had affronted me, though I asked him
                    over and over again to be only straightforward; he declared I knew.’
                ‘How excessively provoking!’ cried Amy. ‘You cannot guess what he meant?’
                ‘Not the least in the world. I have not the most distant suspicion. It was of no use to declare I was not offended with any
                    one; he only looked in that way of his, as if he knew much better than I did
                    myself, and told me he could make allowances.’
                ‘Worse than all! How horrid of him.’
                ‘No, don't spoil me. No doubt he thinks he has grounds, and my irritation was
                    unjustifiable. Yes, I got into my old way. He cautioned me, and nearly made me
                    mad! I never was nearer coming to a regular outbreak. Always the same! Fool that
                    I am.’
                ‘Now, Guy, that is always your way; when other people are provoking, you abuse
                    yourself. I am sure Philip was so, with his calm assertion of being right.’
                ‘The more provoking, the more trial for me.’
                ‘But you endured it. You say it was only nearly an outbreak. You
                    parted friends? I am sure of that.’
                ‘Yes, it would have been rather too bad not to do that.’
                ‘Then why do you scold yourself, when you really had the victory?’
                ‘The victory will be if the inward feeling as well as the outward token is ever
                    subdued.’
                ‘O, that must be in time, of course. Only let me hear how you got on with Colonel
                    Deane.’
                ‘He was very good-natured, and would have laughed it off, but Philip went with
                    me, and looked grand, and begged in a solemn way that no more might be said. I
                    could have got on better alone; but Philip was very kind, or, as you say,
                    gracious.’
                ‘And provoking,’ added Amy, ‘only I believe you do not like me to say so.’
                ‘It is more agreeable to hear you call him so at this moment than is good for me.
                    I have no right to complain, since I gave the offence.’
                ‘The offence?’
                ‘The absenting myself.’
                ‘Oh! that you did because you thought it right.’
                ‘I want to be clear that it was right.’
                
                ‘What do you mean?’ cried she, astonished. ‘It was a great piece of self-denial,
                    and I only felt it wrong not to be doing the same.’
                ‘Nay, how should such creatures as you need the same discipline as I?’
                She exclaimed to herself how far from his equal she was—how weak, idle, and
                    self-pleasing she felt herself to be; but she could not say so—the words would
                    not come; and she only drooped her little head, humbled by his treating her as
                    better than himself. He proceeded:—
                ‘Something wrong I have done, and I want the clue. Was it self-will in choosing
                    discipline contrary to your mother's judgment? Yet she could not know all. I
                    thought it her kindness in not liking me to lose the pleasure. Besides, one must
                    act for oneself, and this was only my own personal amusement.’
                ‘Yes,’ said Amy, timidly hesitating.
                ‘Well?’ said he, with the gentle, deferential tone that contrasted with his
                    hasty, vehement self-accusations. ‘Well?’ and he waited, though not so as to
                    hurry or frighten her, but to encourage, by showing her words had weight.
                ‘I was thinking of one thing,’ said Amy; ‘is it not sometimes right to consider
                    whether we ought to disappoint people who want us to be pleased?’
                ‘There it is, I believe,’ said Guy, stopping and considering, then going on with
                    a better satisfied air, ‘that is a real rule. Not to be so bent on myself as to
                    sacrifice other people's feelings to what seems best for me. But I don't see
                    whose pleasure I interfered with.’
                Amy could have answered, ‘Mine;’ but the maidenly feeling checked her again, and
                    she said, ‘We all thought you would like it.’
                ‘And I had no right to sacrifice your pleasure! I see, I see. The pleasure of
                    giving pleasure to others is so much the best there is on earth, that one ought
                    to be passive rather than interfere with it.’
                ‘Yes,’ said Amy, ‘just as I have seen Mary Ross let herself be swung till she was giddy, rather than
                    disappoint Charlotte and Helen, who thought she liked it.’
                ‘If one could get to look at everything with as much indifference as the
                    swinging! But it is all selfishness. It is as easy to be selfish for one's own
                    good as for one's own pleasure; and I daresay, the first is as bad as the
                    other.’
                ‘I was thinking of something else,’ said Amy. ‘I should think it more like the
                    holly tree in Southey. Don't you know it? The young leaves are sharp and
                    prickly, because they have so much to defend themselves from, but as the tree
                    grows older, it leaves off the spears, after it has won the victory.’
                ‘Very kind of you, and very pretty, Amy,’ said he, smiling; ‘but, in the
                    meantime, it is surely wrong to be more prickly than is unavoidable, and there
                    is the perplexity. Selfish! selfish! selfish! Oneself the first object. That is
                    the root.’
                ‘Guy, if it is not impertinent to ask, I do wish you would tell me one thing. Why
                    did you think it wrong to go to that ball?’ said Amy, timidly.
                ‘I don't know that I thought it wrong to go to that individual ball,’ said Guy;
                    ‘but my notion was, that altogether I was getting into a rattling idle way,
                    never doing my proper quantity of work, or doing it properly, and talking a lot
                    of nonsense sometimes. I thought, last Sunday, it was time to make a short turn
                    somewhere and bring myself up. I could not, or did not get out of the pleasant
                    talks as Laura does, so I thought giving up this ball would punish me at once,
                    and set me on a new tack of behaving like a reasonable creature.’
                ‘Don't call yourself too many names, or you wont be civil to us. We all, except
                    Laura, have been quite as bad.’
                ‘Yes; but you had not so much to do.’
                ‘We ought,’ said Amy; ‘but I meant to be reasonable when Eveleen is gone.’
                ‘Perhaps I ought to have waited till then, but I don't know. Lady Eveleen is so
                    amusing that it leads to farther dawdling, and
                    it would not do to wait to resist the temptation till it is out of the way.’
                As he spoke, they saw Mrs. Edmonstone coming out, and went to meet her. Guy told
                    her his trouble, detailing it more calmly than before he had found out his
                    mistake. She agreed with him that this had been in forgetting that his attending
                    the ball did not concern only himself, but he then returned to say that he could
                    not see what difference it made, except to their own immediate circle.
                ‘If it was not you, Guy, who made that speech, I should call it fishing for a
                    compliment. You forget that rank and station make people sought after.’
                ‘I suppose there is something in that,’ said Guy, thoughtfully; ‘at any rate, it
                    is no bad thing to think so, it is so humiliating.’
                ‘That is not the way most people would take it.’
                ‘No? Does not it prevent one from taking any attention as paid to one's real
                    self? The real flattering thing would be to be made as much of as Philip is, for
                    one's own merits, and not for the handle to one's name.’
                ‘Yes, I think so,’ said Amy.
                ‘Well, then,’ as if he wished to gather the whole conversation into one resolve,
                    ‘the point is to consider whether abstaining from innocent things that may be
                    dangerous to oneself mortifies other people. If so, the vexing them is a certain
                    wrong, whereas the mischief of taking the pleasure is only a possible
                    contingency. But then one must take it out of oneself some other way, or it
                    becomes an excuse for self-indulgence.’
                ‘Hardly with you,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone, smiling.
                ‘Because I had rather go at it at once, and forget all about other people. You
                    must teach me consideration, Mrs. Edmonstone, and in the meantime will you tell
                    me what you think I had better do about this scrape?’
                ‘Let it alone,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone. ‘You have begged every one's pardon, and it
                    had better be 
                        for-
                        forgotten
                     gotten as fast as possible. They
                    have made more fuss already than it is worth. Don't torment yourself about it
                    any more; for, if you have made a mistake, it is on the right side; and on the
                    first opportunity, I'll go and call on Mrs. Deane, and see if she is very
                    implacable.’
                The dressing-bell rang, and Amy ran up-stairs, stopping at Laura's door, to ask
                    how she prospered in the drive she had been taking with Charles and Eveleen.
                Amy told her of Guy's trouble, and oh! awkward question, inquired if she could
                    guess what it could be that Philip imagined that Guy had been offended at.
                ‘Can't he guess?’ said poor Laura, to gain time, and brushing her hair over her
                    face.
                ‘No, he has no idea, though Philip protested that he knew, and would not tell
                    him. Philip must have been most tiresome.’
                ‘What? Has Guy been complaining?’
                ‘No, only angry with himself for being vexed. I can't think how Philip can go on
                    so!’
                ‘Hush! hush, Amy, you know nothing about it. He has reasons—’
                ‘I know,’ said Amy, indignantly; ‘but what right has he to go on mistrusting? If
                    people are to be judged by their deeds, no one is so good as Guy, and it is too
                    bad to reckon up against him all his ancestors have done. It is wolf and lamb,
                    indeed.’
                ‘He does not!’ cried Laura. ‘He never is unjust! How can you say so, Amy?’
                ‘Then why does he impute motives, and not straightforwardly tell what he
                    means?’
                ‘It is impossible in this case,’ said Laura.
                ‘Do you know what it is?’
                ‘Yes,’ said Laura, perfectly truthful, and feeling herself in a dreadful
                    predicament.
                ‘And you can't tell me?’
                ‘I don't think I can.’
                ‘Nor Guy?’
                ‘Not for worlds,’ cried Laura, in horror.
                
                ‘Can't you get Philip to tell him?’
                ‘Oh no, no! I can't explain it, Amy; and all that can be done is to let it die
                    away as fast as possible. It is only the rout about it that is of
                    consequence.’
                ‘It is very odd,’ said Amy, ‘but I must dress,’ and away she ran, much puzzled,
                    but with no desire to look into Philip's secrets.
                Laura rested her head on her hand, sighed, and wondered why it was so hard to
                    answer. She almost wished she had said Philip had been advising her to
                    discourage any attachment on Guy's part; but then Amy might have laughed, and
                    asked why. No! no! Philip's confidence was in her keeping, and cost her what it
                    might, she would be faithful to the trust.
                There was now a change. The evenings were merry, but the mornings were occupied.
                    Guy went off to his room, as he used to do last winter; Laura commenced some
                    complicated perspective, or read a German book with a great deal of dictionary;
                    Amy had a book of history, and practised her music diligently; even Charles read
                    more to himself, and resumed the study with Guy and Amy; Lady Eveleen joined in
                    every one's pursuits, enjoyed them, and lamented to Laura that it was impossible
                    to be rational at her own home.
                Laura tried to persuade her that there was no need that she should be on the
                    level of the society round her, and it ended in her spending an hour in diligent
                    study every morning, promising to continue it when she went home, while Laura
                    made such sensible comments that Eveleen admired her more than ever; and she,
                    knowing that some were second-hand from Philip, others arising from his
                    suggestions, gave him all the homage paid to herself, as a tribute to him who
                    reigned over her whole being.
                Yet she was far from happy. Her reserve towards Guy made her feel stiff and
                    guarded; she had a craving for Philip's presence, with a dread of showing it,
                    which made her uncomfortable. She wondered he had not been at Hollywell since
                    the bail, for he must know that she was going
                    to Ireland in a fortnight, and was not likely to return till his regiment had
                    left Broadstone.
                An interval passed long enough for her not to be alone in her surprise at his
                    absenting himself before he at length made his appearance, just before luncheon,
                    so as to miss the unconstrained morning hours he used so much to enjoy. He found
                    Guy, Charles, and Amy, deep in Butler's Analogy.
                ‘Are you making poor little Amy read that?’ said he.
                ‘Bravo!’ cried Charles; ‘he is so disappointed that it is not Pickwick that he
                    does not know what else to say.’
                ‘I don't suppose I take much in,’ said Amy; ‘but I like to be told what it
                    means.’
                ‘Don't imagine I can do that,’ said Guy.
                ‘I never spent much time over it,’ said Philip; ‘but I should think you were out
                    of your depth.’
                ‘Very well,’ said Charles; ‘we will return to Dickens to oblige you.’
                ‘It is your pleasure to wrest my words,’ replied Philip, in his own calm manner,
                    though he actually felt hurt, which he had never done before. His complacency
                    was less secure, so that there was more need for self-assertion.
                ‘Where are the rest?’ he asked.
                ‘Laura and Eveleen are making a dictation lesson agreeable to Charlotte,’ said
                    Amy; ‘I found Eva making mistakes on purpose.’
                ‘How much longer does she stay?’
                ‘Till Tuesday. Lord Kilcoran is coming to fetch her.’
                Charlotte entered, and immediately ran up stairs to announce her cousin's
                    arrival. Laura was glad of this previous notice, and hoped her blush and tremor
                    were not observed. It was a struggle, through luncheon time, to keep her colour
                    and confusion within bounds; but she succeeded better than she fancied she did,
                    and Philip gave her as much help as he could, by not looking at her. Seeing that
                    he dreaded nothing so much as her exciting suspicion, she was at once braced and
                    alarmed.
                
                Her father was very glad to see him, and reproached him for making himself a
                    stranger, while her sisters counted up the days of his absence.
                ‘There was the time, to be sure, when we met you on Ashen-down, but that was a
                    regular cheat. Laura had you all to herself.’
                Laura bent down to feed Bustle, and Philip felt his colour
                    deepening.
                Mr. Edmonstone went on to ask him to come and stay at Hollywell for a week,
                    vowing he would take no refusal. ‘A week was out of the question,’ said Philip;
                    ‘but he could come for two nights.’ Amabel hinted that there was to be a
                    dinner-party on Thursday, thinking it fair to give him warning of what he
                    disliked, but he immediately chose that very day. Again he disconcerted all
                    expectations, when it was time to go out. Mrs. Edmonstone and Charles were going
                    to drive, the young ladies and Guy to walk, but Philip disposed himself to
                    accompany his uncle in a survey of the wheat.
                Laura perceived that he would not risk taking another walk with her when they
                    might be observed. It showed implicit trust to leave her to his rival; but she
                    was sorry to find that caution must put an end to the freedom of their
                    intercourse, and would have stayed at home, but that Eveleen was so wild and
                    unguarded that Mrs. Edmonstone did not like her to be without Laura as a check
                    on her, especially when Guy was of the party.
                There was some comfort in that warm pressure of her hand when she bade Philip
                    good bye, and on that she lived for a long time. He stood at the window watching
                    them till they were out of sight, then moved towards his aunt, who with her
                    bonnet on, was writing an invitation for Thursday, to Mr. Thorndale.
                ‘I was thinking,’ said he, in a low voice, ‘if it would not be as well, if you
                    liked, to ask Thorndale here for those two days?’
                ‘If you think so,’ returned Mrs. Edmonstone, looking at him more
                    inquiringly than he could well bear.
                
                ‘You know how he enjoys being here, and I owe them all so much kindness.’
                ‘Certainly; I will speak to your uncle,’ said she, going in search of him. She
                    presently returned, saying they should be very glad to see Mr. Thorndale, asking
                    him at the same time, in her kind tones of interest, after an old servant for
                    whom he had been spending much thought and pains. The kindness cut him to the
                    heart, for it evidently arose from a perception that he was ill at ease, and his
                    conscience smote him. He answered shortly, and was glad when the carriage came;
                    he lifted Charles into it, and stood with folded arms as they drove away.
                ‘The air is stormy,’ said Charles, looking back at him.
                ‘You thought so, too?’ said Mrs. Edmonstone, eagerly.
                ‘You did!’
                ‘I have wondered for some time past.’
                ‘It was very decided to-day—that long absence—and there was no provoking him to
                    be sententious. His bringing his young man might be only to keep him in due
                    subjection; but his choosing the day of the party, and above all, not walking
                    with the young ladies.’
                ‘It not like himself,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone, in a leading tone.
                ‘Either the sweet youth is in love, or in the course of some strange
                    transformation.’
                ‘In love!’ she exclaimed. ‘Have you any reason for thinking so?’
                ‘Only as a solution of phenomena; but you look as if I had hit on the truth.’
                ‘I hope it is no such thing; yet—’
                ‘Yet?’ repeated Charles, seriously.
                ‘I think he has discovered the danger.’
                ‘The danger of falling in love with Laura? Well, it would be odd if he was not
                    satisfied with his own work. But he must know how preposterous that would
                    be.’
                ‘And you think that would prevent it?’ said his mother, smiling.
                
                ‘He is just the man to plume himself on making his judgment conquer his
                    inclination, setting novels at defiance. How magnanimously he would resolve to
                    stifle a hopeless attachment!’
                ‘That is exactly what I think he is doing. I think he has found out the state of
                    his feelings, and is doing all in his power to check them by avoiding her,
                    especially in tête-à-têtes, and an
                    unconstrained family party. I am nearly convinced that is his reason for
                    bringing Mr. Thorndale and fixing on the day of the dinner. Poor fellow, it must
                    cost him a great deal, and I long to tell him how I thank him.’
                ‘How! I don't think it unlikely,’ said Charles. ‘It agrees with what happened the
                    evening of the Kilcoran ball, when he was ready to eat me up for saying
                    something he fancied was a hint of a liking of Guy's for Laura. It was a wild
                    mistake, for something I said about Petrarch, forgetting that Petrarch suggested
                    Laura; but it put him out to a degree, and he made all manner of denunciations
                    on the horror of Guy's falling in love with her. Now, as far as I see, Guy is
                    much more in love with you, or with Deloraine, and the idea argues far more that
                    the Captain himself is touched.’
                ‘Depend upon it, Charlie, it was this that led to his detecting the true state of
                    the case. Ever since that he has kept away. It is noble!’
                ‘And what do you think about Laura?’
                ‘Poor child! I doubt if it was well to allow so much intimacy; yet I don't see
                    how it could have been helped.’
                ‘So you think she is in for it? I hope not; but she has not been herself of
                    late.’
                ‘I think she misses what she has been used to from him, and thinks him estranged,
                    but I trust it goes no further. I see she is out of spirits; I wish I could help
                    her, dear girl, but the worst of all would be to let her guess the real name and
                    meaning of all this, so I can't venture to say a word.’
                ‘She is very innocent of novels,’ said Charles, ‘and that is well. It would be an unlucky business to have
                    our poor beauty either sitting ‘like Patience on a monument’, or ‘cockit up on a
                    baggage-waggon.’ But that will never be. Philip is not the man to have a wife in
                    barracks. He would have her like his books, in morocco, or not at all.’
                ‘He would never involve her in discomforts. He may be entirely trusted, and as
                    long as he goes on as he has begun, there is no harm done; Laura will cheer up,
                    will only consider him as her cousin and friend, and never know he has felt more
                    for her.’
                ‘Her going to Ireland is very fortunate.’
                ‘It has made me still more glad that the plan should take place at once.’
                ‘And you say ‘nothing to nobody?’’
                ‘Of course not. We must not let him guess we have observed anything; there is no
                    need to make your father uncomfortable, and such things need not dawn on Amy's
                    imagination.’
                It may be wondered at that Mrs. Edmonstone should confide such a subject to her
                    son, but she knew that in a case really affecting his sister, and thus
                    introduced, his silence was secure. In fact, confidence was the only way to
                    prevent the shrewd, unscrupulous raillery which would have caused great
                    distress, and perhaps led to the very disclosure to be deprecated. Of late, too,
                    there had been such a decrease of petulance in Charles, as justified her in
                    trusting him, and lastly, it must be observed that she was one of those
                    open-hearted people who cannot make a discovery nor endure an anxiety without
                    imparting it. Her tact, indeed, led her to make a prudent choice of confidants,
                    and in this case her son was by far the best, though she had spoken without
                    premeditation. Her nature would never have allowed her to act as her daughter
                    was doing; she would have been without the strength to conceal her feelings,
                    especially when deprived of the safety-valve of free intercourse with their
                    object.
                The visit took place as arranged, and very 
                        uncom-
                        uncomfortable
                     fortable it was to all who looked
                    deeper than the surface. In the first place, Philip found there the last person
                    he wished his friend to meet—Lady Eveleen, who had been persuaded to stay for
                    the dinner-party; but Mr. Thorndale was, as Charles would have said, on his good
                    behaviour, and, ashamed of the fascination her manners exercised over him, was
                    resolved to resist it, answered her gay remarks with brief sentences and stiff
                    smiles, and consorted chiefly with the gentlemen.
                Laura was grave and silent, trying to appear unconscious, and only succeeding in
                    being visibly constrained. Philip was anxious and stern in his attempts to
                    appear unconcerned, and even Guy was not quite as bright and free as usual,
                    being puzzled as to how far he was forgiven about the ball.
                Amabel could not think what had come to every one, and tried in vain to make them
                    sociable. In the evening they had recourse to a game, said to be for Charlotte's
                    amusement, but in reality to obviate some of the stiffness and constraint; yet
                    even this led to awkward situations. Each person was to set down his or her
                    favourite character in history and fiction, flower, virtue, and time at which to
                    have lived, and these were all to be appropriated to the writers. The first read
                    was—
                ‘Lily of the valley—truth—Joan of Arc—Padre Cristoforo—the present time.’
                ‘Amy!’ exclaimed Guy.
                ‘I see you are right,’ said Charles; ‘but tell me your grounds?’
                ‘Padre Cristoforo,’ was the answer.
                ‘Fancy little Amy choosing Joan of Arc,’ said Eveleen, ‘she who is afraid of a
                    tolerable sized grasshopper.’
                ‘I should like to have been Joan's sister, and heard her tell about her visions,’
                    said Amy.
                ‘You would have taught her to believe them,’ said Philip.
                ‘Taught her!’ cried Guy. ‘Surely you take the high view of her.’
                
                ‘I think,’ said Philip, ‘that she is a much injured person, as much by her
                    friends as her enemies; but I don't pretend to enter either enthusiastically or
                    philosophically into her character.’
                What was it that made Guy's brow contract, as he began to strip the feather of a
                    pen, till, recollecting himself, he threw it from him with a dash, betraying
                    some irritation, and folded his hands.
                ‘Lavender,’ read Charlotte.
                ‘What should make any one choose that?’ cried Eveleen.
                ‘I know!’ said Mrs. Edmonstone, looking up. ‘I shall never forget the tufts of
                    lavender round the kitchen garden at Stylehurst.’
                Philip smiled. Charlotte proceeded, and Charles saw Laura's colour deepening as
                    she bent over her work.
                ‘‘Lavender—steadfastness—Strafford—Cordeli a, in ‘King Lear’—the late war.’ How
                    funny!’ cried Charlotte. ‘For hear the next: ‘Honeysuckle—steadfastness—Lord
                    Strafford—Cordelia—the present time.’ Why, Laura, you must have copied it from
                    Philip's.’
                Laura neither looked nor spoke. Philip could hardly command his countenance as
                    Eveleen laughed, and told him he was much flattered by those becoming blushes.
                    But here Charles broke in,—‘Come, make haste, Charlotte, don't be all night
                    about it;’ and as Charlotte paused, as if to make some dangerous remark, he
                    caught the paper, and read the next himself. Nothing so startled Philip as this
                    desire to cover their confusion. Laura was only sensible of the relief of having
                    attention drawn from her by the laugh that followed.
                ‘A shamrock—Captain Rock—the tailor that was ‘blue moulded for want of a
                    bating’—Pat Riotism—the time of Malachy with the collar of gold.’
                ‘Eva!’ cried Charlotte.
                ‘Nonsense,’ said Eveleen; ‘I am glad I know your tastes, Charles. They do you
                    honour.’
                ‘More than yours do, if these are yours,’ said Charles, reading them
                    contemptuously; ‘Rose—
                        genero-
                        generosity
                     sity—Charles Edward—Catherine
                    Seyton—the civil wars.’
                ‘You had better not have disowned Charlie's, Lady Eveleen?’ said Guy.
                ‘Nay do you think I would put up with such a set as these?’ retorted Charles; ‘I
                    am not fallen so low as the essence of young-ladyism.’
                ‘What can you find to say against them?’ said Eveleen.
                ‘Nothing,’ said Charles, ‘No one ever can find anything to say for or against
                    young ladies' tastes.’
                ‘You seem to be rather in the case of the tailor yourself,’ said Guy, ‘ready to
                    do battle, if you could but get any opposition.’
                ‘Only tell me,’ said Amy, ‘how you could wish to live in the civil wars?’
                ‘O, because they would be so entertaining.’
                ‘There's Paddy, genuine Paddy, at last!’ exclaimed Charles. ‘Depend upon it, the
                    conventional young lady wont do, Eva.’
                After much more discussion, and one or two more papers, came Guy's—the last.
                    ‘Heather—Truth—King Charles—Sir Galahad—the present time.’
                ‘Sir how much? exclaimed Charles.
                ‘Don't you know him?’ said Guy. ‘Sir Galahad—the Knight of the Siege Perilous—who
                    won the Saint Greal.’
                ‘What language is that?’ said Charles.
                ‘What! Don't you know the Morte d'Arthur? I thought every one did! Don't you,
                    Philip?’
                ‘I once looked into it. It is very curious, in classical English; but it is a
                    book no one could read through.’
                ‘Oh!’ cried Guy, indignantly; then; ‘but you only looked into it. If you had
                    lived with its two fat volumes, you could not help delighting in it. It was my
                    boating-book for at least three summers.’
                ‘That accounts for it,’ said Philip; ‘a book so studied in boyhood acquires a
                    charm apart from its actual merits.’
                
                ‘But it has actual merits. The depth, the mystery, the allegory—the beautiful
                    characters of some of the knights.’
                ‘You look through the medium of your imagination,’ said Philip; ‘but you must
                    pardon others for seeing a great sameness of character and adventure, and for
                    disapproving of the strange mixture of religion and romance.’
                ‘You've never read it,’ said Guy, striving to speak patiently.
                ‘A cursory view is sufficient to show whether a book will repay the time spent in
                    reading it.’
                ‘A cursory view enable one to judge better than making it your study? Eh,
                    Philip?’ said Charles.
                ‘It is no paradox. The actual merits are better seen by an unprejudiced stranger
                    than by an old friend, who lends them graces of his own devising.’
                Charles laughed: Guy pushed back his chair, and went to look out at the window.
                    Perhaps Philip enjoyed thus chafing his temper; for after all he had said to
                    Laura, it was satisfactory to see his opinion justified, so that he might not
                    feel himself unfair. It relieved his uneasiness lest his understanding with
                    Laura should be observed. It had been in great peril that evening, for as the
                    girls went up to bed, Eveleen gaily said, ‘Why, Laura, have you quarrelled with
                    Captain Morville?’
                ‘How can you say such things, Eva? Good night.’ And Laura escaped into her own
                    room.
                ‘What's the meaning of it, Amy?’ pursued Eveleen.
                ‘Only a stranger makes us more formal,’ said Amy.
                ‘What an innocent you are! It is of no use to talk to you!’ said Eveleen, running
                    away.
                ‘No; but Eva,’ said Amy, pursuing her, ‘don't go off with a wrong fancy. Charles
                    has teased Laura so much about Philip, that of course it makes her shy of him
                    before strangers; and it would never have done to laugh about their choosing the
                    same things when Mr. Thorndale was there.’
                
                ‘I must be satisfied, I suppose. I know that is what you think, for you could not
                    say any other.’
                ‘But what do you think?’ said Amy, puzzled.
                ‘I won't tell you, little innocence—it would only shock you.’
                ‘Nothing you really thought about Laura could shock me,’ said Amy;
                    ‘I don't mean what you might say in play.’
                ‘Well, then, shall you think me in play or earnest when I say that I think Laura
                    likes Philip very much?’
                ‘In play,’ said Amy; ‘for you know that if we had not got our own Charlie to show
                    us what a brother is, we should think of Philip as just the same as a
                    brother.’
                ‘A brother! You are pretending to be more simple than you really are, Amy! Don't
                    you know what I mean?’
                ‘O,’ said Amy, her cheeks lighting up, ‘that must be only play, for he has never
                    asked her.’
                ‘Ah! but suppose she was in the state just ready to be asked?’
                ‘No, that could never be, for he could never ask her,’
                ‘Why not, little Amy?’
                ‘Because we are cousins, and everything!’ said Amy, confused. ‘Don't talk any
                    more about it, Eva; for though I know it is all play, I don't like it, and
                    mamma, would not wish me to talk of such things. And don't you laugh about it,
                    dear Eva, pray; for it only makes every one uncomfortable. Pray!’
                Amy had a very persuasive way of saying ‘pray,’ and Eveleen thought she must
                    yield to it. Besides, she respected Laura and Captain Morville too much to
                    resolve to laugh at them, whatever she might do when her fear of the Captain
                    made her saucy.
                Mrs. Edmonstone thought it best on all accounts to sit in the drawing-room the
                    next morning; but she need not have taken so much pains to chaperon her young ladies, for the gentlemen did not come
                    near them.
                Laura was more at ease in manner, though very far from happy, for she was
                    restlessly eager for a talk with Philip; while he was resolved not to seek a
                    private interview, sure that it would excite suspicion, and willing to lose the
                    consciousness of his underhand proceedings.
                This was the day of the dinner-party, and Laura's heart leaped as she calculated
                    that it must fall to Philip's lot to hand her in to dinner. She was not
                    mistaken, he did give her his arm; and they found themselves most favourably
                    placed, for Philip's other neighbour was Mrs. Brownlow, talking at a great rate
                    to Mr. de Courcy, and on Laura's side was the rather deaf Mr. Hayley, who had
                    quite enough to do to talk to Miss Brownlow. Charles was not at table, and not
                    one suspicious eye could rest on them; yet it was not till the second course was
                    in progress that he said anything which the whole world might not have heard.
                    Something had passed about Canterbury, and its distance from Hollywell.
                ‘I can be here often,’ said Philip.
                ‘I am glad.’
                ‘If you can only be guarded,—and I think you are becoming so.’
                ‘Is this a time to speak of—? Oh, don't!’
                ‘It is the only time. No one is attending, and I have something to say to
                    you.’
                Overpowering her dire confusion, in obedience to him, she looked at the epergne,
                    and listened.
                ‘You have acted prudently. You have checked—’ and he indicated Guy, ‘without
                    producing more than moderate annoyance. You have only to guard your
                    self-possession.’
                ‘It is very foolish,’ she murmured.
                ‘Ordinary women say so, and rest contented with the folly. You can do better
                    things.’
                There was a thrill of joy at finding him conversing with her as his ‘own;’ it overcame her embarrassment
                    and alarm, and wishes he would not choose such a time for speaking.’
                ‘How shall I?’ said she.
                ‘Employ yourself. Employ and strengthen your mind!’
                ‘How shall I, and without you?’
                ‘Find something to prevent you from dwelling on the future. That drawing is
                    dreamy work, employing the fingers and leaving the mind free.’
                ‘I have been trying to read, but I cannot fix my mind.’
                ‘Suppose you take what will demand attention. Mathematics, algebra. I will send
                    you my first book of algebra, and it will help you to work down many useless
                    dreams and anxieties.’
                ‘Thank you; pray do, I shall be very glad of it.’
                ‘You will find it give a power and stability to your mind, and no longer have to
                    complain of frivolous occupation.’
                ‘I don't feel frivolous now,’ said Laura, sadly; ‘I don't know why it is that
                    everything is so altered, I am really happier, but my light heart is gone.’
                ‘You have but now learnt the full powers of your soul, Laura; you have left the
                    world of childhood, with the gay feelings which have no depth.’
                ‘I have what is better,’ she whispered.
                ‘You have, indeed. But those feelings must be regulated; and strengthening the
                    intellect strengthens the governing power.’
                Philip, with all his sense, was mystifying himself, because he was departing from
                    right, the only true ‘good sense.’ His right judgment in all things was becoming
                    obscured, so he talked metaphysical jargon, instead of plain practical truth,
                    and thought he was teaching Laura to strengthen her powers of mind, instead of
                    giving way to dreams, when he was only leading her to stifle meditation, and
                    thus securing her complete submission to himself.
                
                She was happier after this conversation, and better able to pay attention to the
                    guests, nor did she feel guilty when obliged to play and sing in the evening—for
                    she knew he must own that she could do no otherwise.
                Lady Eveleen gave, however, its brilliancy to the party. She had something
                    wonderfully winning and fascinating about her, and Philip owned to himself that
                    it took no small resolution on the part of Mr. Thorndale to keep so steadily
                    aloof from the party in the bay window where she was reigning like a queen, and
                    inspiring gaiety like a fairy. She made Guy sing with her; it was the first time
                    he had ever sung, except among themselves, as Mrs. Edmonstone had never known
                    whether he would like to be asked; but Eveleen refused to sing some of the Irish
                    melodies unless he would join her, and without making any difficulty he did so.
                    Mrs. Brownlow professed to be electrified, and Eveleen declaring that she knew
                    she sung like a peacock, told Mrs. Brownlow that the thing to hear was Sir Guy
                    singing glees with Laura and Amy. Of course, they were obliged to sing. Mrs.
                    Brownlow was delighted; and as she had considerable knowledge of music, they all
                    grew eager and Philip thought it very foolish of Guy to allow so much of his
                    talent and enthusiasm to display themselves.
                When all the people were gone, and the home party had wished each other good
                    night, Philip lingered in the drawing-room to finish a letter. Guy, after
                    helping Charles up stairs, came down a few moments after, to fetch something
                    which he had forgotten. Philip looked up,—‘You contributed greatly to the
                    entertainment this evening,’ he said.
                Guy coloured, not quite sure that this was not said sarcastically, and provoked
                    with himself for being vexed.
                ‘You think one devoid of the sixth sense has no right to speak,’ said Philip.
                ‘I can't expect all to think it, as I do, one of the best things in this world or out of it,’ said Guy,
                    speaking quickly.
                ‘I know it is so felt by those who understand its secrets,’ said Philip. ‘I would
                    not depreciate it; so you may hear me patiently, Guy. I only meant to warn you,
                    that it is often the means of bringing persons into undesirable intimacies, from
                    which they cannot disentangle themselves as easily as they enter them.’
                A flush crossed Guy's cheek, but it passed, and he simply said—‘I suppose it may.
                    Good night.’
                Philip looked after him, and pondered on what it was that had annoyed him—manner,
                    words, or advice. He ascribed it to Guy's unwillingness to be advised, since he
                    had observed that his counsel was apt to irritate him, though his good sense
                    often led him to follow it. In the present case, Philip thought Mrs. Brownlow
                    and her society by no means desirable for a youth like Guy; and he was quite
                    right.
                Philip and his friend went the next morning; and in the afternoon Laura received
                    the book of algebra,—a very original first gift from a lover. It came openly,
                    with a full understanding that she was to use it by his recommendation; her
                    mother and brother both thought they understood the motive, which one thought
                    very wise, and the other very characteristic.
                Lord Kilcoran and Lady Eveleen also departed. Eveleen very sorry to go, though a
                    little comforted by the prospect of seeing Laura so soon in Ireland, where she
                    would set her going in all kinds of ‘rationalities—reading, and school teaching,
                    and everything else.’
                ‘Ay,’ said Charles, when all were out of hearing but his mother; ‘and I shrewdly
                    suspect the comfort would be still greater if it was Sir Guy Morville who was
                    coming.’
                ‘It would be no bad thing,’ said his mother; ‘Eveleen is a nice creature with
                    great capabilities.’
                ‘Capabilities! but will they ever come to anything?’
                ‘In a few years,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone; ‘and he is a mere boy at present, so there is plenty of time for
                    both to develop themselves.’
                ‘Most true, madame mère; but it remains to be proved whether the liking for Sir
                    Guy, which has taken hold of my Lady Eveleen, is strong enough to withstand all
                    the coquetting with young Irishmen, and all the idling at Kilcoran.’
                ‘I hope she has something better to be relied on than the liking for Sir
                    Guy.’
                ‘You may well do so, for I think he has no notion of throwing off his allegiance
                    to you—his first and only love. He liked very well to make fun with Eva; but he
                    regarded her rather as a siren, who drew him off from his Latin and Greek.’
                ‘Yes; I am ashamed of myself for such a fit of match-making! Forget it, Charlie,
                    as fast as you can.’
            
            
                
                CHAPTER XI.
                
                    
                        
                            
                                This warld's wealth, when I think o't,
                                Its pride, and a' the lave o't,
                                Fie, fie on silly coward man,
                                That he should be the slave o't.
                            
                        
                        —BURNS.
                    
                
                IN another week Mr. Edmonstone and his eldest daughter were to
                    depart on their Irish journey. Laura, besides the natural pain in leaving home,
                    was sorry to be no longer near Philip, especially as it was not likely that he
                    would be still at Broadstone on their return; yet she was so restless and
                    dissatisfied, that any change was welcome, and the fear of betraying herself
                    almost took away the pleasure of his presence.
                He met them at the railway-station at Broadstone, where Mr. Edmonstone, finding
                    himself much too early, recollected something he had forgotten in the town, and
                    left his daughter to walk up and down the platform under Philip's charge. They
                    felt it a precious interval, but both were out of spirits, and could hardly
                    profit by it.
                ‘You will be gone long before we come back,’ said Laura.
                ‘In a fortnight or three weeks, probably.’
                ‘But you will still be able to come to Hollywell now and then?’
                ‘I hope so. It is all the pleasure I can look for. We shall never see such a
                    summer again.’
                ‘Oh, it has been a memorable one!’
                ‘Memorable! Yes. It has given me an assurance that compensates for all I have
                    lost; yet it has made me feel, more than ever
                    before, how poverty withers a man's hopes.’
                ‘O Philip, I always thought your poverty a great, noble thing!’
                ‘You thought like a generous-tempered girl, who has known nothing of its
                    effects.’
                ‘And do you know that Guy says the thing to be proud of is of holding the place
                    you do, without the aid of rank or riches.’
                ‘I would not have it otherwise—I would not for worlds that my father had acted
                    otherwise,’ said Philip. ‘You understand that, Laura.’
                ‘Of course I do.’
                ‘But when you speak—when Guy speaks of my holding the place I do, you little know
                    what it is to feel that powers of usefulness are wasted, to know I have the
                    means of working my way to honour and distinction, such as you would rejoice in
                    Laura, to have it all within, yet feel it thrown away. Locksley Hall,
                    again—‘every door is barred with gold, and opens but to golden keys.’’
                ‘I wish there was anything to be done,’ said Laura.
                ‘It is my profession that is the bar to everything. I have sold the best years of
                    my life, and for what? To see my sister degrade herself by that marriage.’
                ‘That is the real grief,’ said Laura.
                ‘But for that, I should never have cast a look back on what I relinquished.
                    However, why do I talk of these things, these vain regrets? They only recurred
                    because my welfare does not concern myself alone,—and here's your father.’
                Mr. Edmonstone returned, out of breath, in too much bustle to remark his
                    daughter's blushes. Even when the train was moving off, he still had his head
                    out at the window, calling to Philip that they should expect a visit from him as
                    soon as ever they returned.
                Such cordiality gave Philip a pang; and in bitterness of spirit he walked back to
                    the barracks. On the way he met Mrs. Deane, who wanted to consult him about inviting his cousin, Sir Guy to a dinner-party
                    she intended to give next week. ‘Such an agreeable, sensible youth, and we feel
                    we owe him some attention, he took so much pains to make apologies about the
                    ball.’
                ‘I dare say he will be very happy to come.’
                ‘We will write at once. He is a very fine young man, without a shade of vanity or
                    nonsense.’
                ‘Yes; he has very pleasant, unaffected manners.’
                ‘I am sure he will do credit to his estate. It is a very handsome fortune, is it
                    not?’
                ‘It is a very large property.’
                ‘I am glad of it; I have no doubt we shall see him one of the first men of his
                    time.’
                These words brought into contrast in Philip's mind the difference between Guy's
                    position and his own. The mere possession of wealth was winning for Guy, at an
                    age when his merits could only be negative, that estimation which his own tried
                    character had scarcely achieved, placing him not merely on a level with himself,
                    but in a situation where happiness and influence came unbidden. His own talents,
                    attainments, and equal, if not superior claims, to gentle blood, could not
                    procure him what seemed to lie at Guy's feet. His own ability and Laura's heart
                    alone were what wealth could not affect, yet when he thought how the want of it
                    wasted the one, and injured the hopes of the other, he recurred to certain
                    visions of his sister Margaret's, in days gone by, of what he was to do as Sir
                    Philip, lord of Redclyffe. He was speculating on what would have happened had
                    Guy died in his sickly infancy, when, suddenly recollecting himself, he turned
                    his mind to other objects.
                Guy was not much charmed with Mrs. Deane's invitation. He said he knew he must go
                    to make up for his rudeness about the ball; but he grumbled enough to make Mrs.
                    Edmonstone laugh at him for being so stupid as to want to stay hum-drum in the
                    chimney corner. No doubt it was very pleasant there. There was that peculiar snugness which belongs to a remnant
                    of a large party, when each member of it feels bound to prevent the rest from
                    being dull. Guy devoted himself to Charles more than ever, and in the fear that
                    he might miss the late variety of amusement, exerted even more of his powers of
                    entertainment than Lady Eveleen had called forth.
                There were grave readings in the mornings, and long walks in the afternoons, when
                    he dragged Charles, in his chair, into many a place he had never expected to see
                    again, and enabled him to accompany his mother and sisters in many a delightful
                    expedition. In the evening there was music, or light reading, especially poetry,
                    as this was encouraged by Mrs. Edmonstone, in the idea that it was better that
                    so excitable and enthusiastic a person as Guy should have his objects of
                    admiration tested by Charles's love of ridicule.
                Mr. Edmonstone had left to Guy the office of keeping the 1st of September, one
                    which he greatly relished. Indeed, when he thought of his own deserted manors,
                    he was heard to exclaim, in commiseration for the neglect, ‘Poor partridges!’
                    The Hollywell shooting was certainly not like that at Redclyffe, where he could
                    hardly walk out of his own grounds, whereas here he had to bear in mind so many
                    boundaries, that Philip was expecting to have to help him out of some direful
                    scrape. He had generally walked over the whole extent, and assured himself that
                    the birds were very wild, and Bustle the best of dogs, before breakfast, so as
                    to be ready for all the occupations of the day. He could scarcely be grateful
                    when the neighbours, thinking it must be very dull for him to be left alone with
                    Mrs. Edmonstone and her crippled son, used to ask him to shoot or dine. He
                    always lamented at first, and ended by enjoying himself.
                One night, he came home, in such a state of eagerness, that he must needs tell
                    his good news; and, finding no one in the drawing-room, he ran up-stairs, opened
                    Charles's door, and exclaimed—‘There's to be a
                    concert at Broadstone!’ Then perceiving that Charles was fast asleep, he
                    retreated noiselessly, reserving his rejoicings till morning, when it appeared
                    that Charles had heard, but had woven the announcement into a dream.
                This concert filled Guy's head. His only grief was that it was to be in the
                    evening, so that Charles could not go to it, and his wonder was not repressed at
                    finding that Philip did not mean to favour it with his presence, since Guy would
                    suffice for squire to Mrs. Edmonstone and her daughters.
                In fact, Philip was somewhat annoyed by the perpetual conversation about the
                    concert, and on the day on which it was to take place resolved on making a long
                    expedition to visit the ruins of an old abbey, far out of all reports of it. As
                    he was setting out, he was greeted, in a very loud voice, by Mr. Gordon.
                ‘Hollo, Morville! how are you? So you have great doings to-night, I hear!’ and he
                    had only just forced himself from him, when he was again accosted, this time in
                    a hasty, embarrassed manner,—
                ‘I beg your pardon, sir, but the ties of relationship—’
                He drew himself up as if he was on parade, faced round, and replied with an
                    emphatic ‘Sir!’ as he behold a thin, foreign-looking man, in a somewhat flashy
                    style of dress, who, bowing low, repeated breathlessly,—
                ‘I beg your pardon—Sir Guy Morville, I believe?’
                ‘Captain Morville, sir.’
                ‘I beg your pardon—I mistook. A thousand pardons,’ and he retreated; while
                    Philip, after a moment's wonder, pursued his walk.
                The Hollywell party entered Broadstone in a very different temper, and greatly
                    did they enjoy the concert, both for themselves and for each other. In the midst
                    of it, while Amy was intent on the Italian words of a song, Guy touched her
                    hand, and pointed to a line in the programme— 
                        Solo on the violin . . . . MR. S.B. DIXON.
                    
                
                She looked up in his face with an expression full of inquiry; but it was no time
                    for speaking, and she only saw how the colour mantled on his cheek when the
                    violinist appeared, and how he looked down the whole time of the performance,
                    only now and then venturing a furtive though earnest glance.
                He did not say anything till they were seated in the carriage, and then
                    astonished Mrs. Edmonstone by exclaiming—
                ‘It must be my uncle!—I am sure it must. I'll ride to Broadstone the first thing
                    to-morrow, and find him out.’
                ‘Your uncle!’ exclaimed Mrs. Edmonstone. ‘I never thought of that.’
                ‘S.B. Dixon,’ said Guy. ‘I know his name is Sebastian. It cannot be any one else.
                    You know he went to America. How curious it is! I suppose there is no fear of
                    his being gone before I can come in to-morrow?’
                ‘I should think not. Those musical people keep late hours.’
                ‘I would go before breakfast. Perhaps it would be best to go to old Redford, he
                    will know all about him; or to the music-shop. I am so glad! It is the very
                    thing I always wished.’
                ‘Did you?’ said Mrs. Edmonstone to herself. ‘I can't say every one would be of
                    your mind; but I can't help liking you the better for it. I wish the man had
                    kept further off. I wish Mr. Edmonstone was at home. I hope no harm will come of
                    it. I wonder what I ought to do. Shall I caution him? No; I don't think I can
                    spoil his happiness—and perhaps the man may be improved. He is his nearest
                    relation, and I have no right to interfere. His own good sense will protect
                    him—but I wish Mr. Edmonstone was at home.’
                She therefore did not check his expressions of delight, nor object to his going
                    to Broadstone early the next morning. He had just dismounted before the inn-yard, when a boy put a note into his
                    hand, and he was so absorbed in its contents, that he did not perceive Philip
                    till after two greetings had passed unheard. When at length he was recalled, he
                    started, and exclaimed, rapturously, as he put the note into his cousin's
                    hand,—
                ‘See here—it is himself!’
                ‘Who?’
                ‘My uncle. My poor mother's own brother.’
                ‘Sebastian Bach Dixon,’ read Philip. ‘Ha! it was he who took me for you
                    yesterday.’
                ‘I saw him at the concert—I was sure it could be no other. I came in on purpose
                    to find him, and here he is waiting for me. Is not it a happy chance?’
                ‘Happy!’ echoed Philip, in a far different tone.
                ‘How I have longed for this—for any one who could remember and tell me of her—of
                    my mother—my poor, dear young mother! And her own brother! I have been thinking
                    of it all night, and he knows I am here, and is as eager as myself. He is
                    waiting for me,’ ended Guy, hurrying off.
                ‘Stop!’ said Philip, gravely. ‘Think before acting. I seriously advise you to
                    have nothing to do with this man, at least personally. Let me see him, and learn
                    what he wants.’
                ‘He wants me,’ impatiently answered Guy. ‘You are not his nephew.’
                ‘Thank heaven!’ thought Philip. ‘Do you imagine your relationship is the sole
                    cause of his seeking you?’
                ‘I don't know—I don't care!’ cried Guy, with vehemence. ‘I will not listen to
                    suspicions of my mother's brother.’
                ‘It is more than suspicion. Hear me calmly. I speak for your good. I know this
                    man's influence was fatal to your father. I know he did all in his power to
                    widen the breach with your grandfather.’
                ‘That was eighteen years ago,’ said Guy, walking on, biting his lip in a fiery
                    fit of impatience.
                ‘You will not hear. Remember, that his position
                    and associates render him no fit companion for you. Nay, listen patiently. You
                    cannot help the relationship. I would not have you do otherwise than assist him.
                    Let him not complain of neglect, but be on your guard. He will either seriously
                    injure you, or be a burden for life.’
                ‘I have heard you so far—I can hear no more,’ said Guy, no longer restraining his
                    impetuosity. ‘He is my uncle, that I know, I care for nothing else.
                    Position—nonsense! what has that to do with it? I will not be set against
                    him.’
                He strode off; but in a few moments turned back, overtook Philip, said,—
                ‘Thank you for your advice. I beg your pardon for my hastiness. You mean kindly,
                    but I must see my uncle.’ And, without waiting for an answer, he was gone.
                In short space he was in the little parlour of the music-shop, shaking hands with
                    his uncle, and exclaiming,—
                ‘I am so glad!—I hoped it was you!’
                ‘It is very noble-hearted! I might have known it would be so with the son of my
                    dearest sister and of my generous friend!’ cried Mr. Dixon, with eagerness that
                    had a theatrical air, though it was genuine feeling that filled his eyes with
                    tears.
                ‘I saw your name last night,’ continued Guy. ‘I would have tried to speak to you
                    at once, but I was obliged to stay with Mrs. Edmonstone, as I was the only
                    gentleman with her.’
                ‘Ah! I thought it possible you might not be able to follow the dictate of your
                    own heart; but this is a fortunate conjuncture, in the absence of your
                    guardian.’
                Guy recollected Philip's remonstrance, and it crossed him whether his guardian
                    might be of the same mind; but he felt confident in having told all to Mrs.
                    Edmonstone.
                ‘How did you know I was here?’ he asked.
                ‘I learnt it in a most gratifying way. Mr. Redford, without knowing our
                    connection—for on that I will always be
                    silent—mentioned that the finest tenor he had ever known, in an amateur,
                    belonged to his pupil, Sir Guy Morville. You can imagine my feelings at finding
                    you so near, and learning that you had inherited your dear mother's talent and
                    taste.’
                The conversation was long, for there was much to hear. Mr. Dixon had kept up a
                    correspondence at long intervals with Markham, from whom he heard that his
                    sister's child survived, and was kindly treated by his grandfather; and
                    inquiring again on the death of old Sir Guy, learnt that he was gone to live
                    with his guardian, whose name, and residence Markham had not thought fit to
                    divulge. He had been much rejoiced to hear his name from the music-master, and
                    he went on to tell how he had been misled by the name of Morville into
                    addressing the captain, who had a good deal of general resemblance to Guy's
                    father, a fine tall young man, of the same upright, proud deportment. He
                    supposed he was the son of the Archdeacon, and remembering how strongly his own
                    proceedings had been discountenanced at Stylehurst, had been much disconcerted;
                    and deeming the encounter a bad omen, had used more caution in his advances to
                    his nephew. It was from sincere affection that he sought his acquaintance,
                    though very doubtful as to the reception he might meet, and was both delighted
                    and surprised at such unembarrassed, open-hearted affection.
                The uncle and nephew were not made to understand each other. Sebastian Dixon was
                    a man of little education, and when, in early youth, his talents had placed him
                    high in his own line, he had led a careless, extravagant life. Though an evil
                    friend, and fatal counsellor, he had been truly attached to Guy's father, and
                    the secret engagement, and runaway marriage with his beautiful sister, had been
                    the romance of his life, promoted by him with no selfish end. He was a proud and
                    passionate man, and resenting Sir Guy's refusal to receive his sister as a
                    daughter, almost as much as Sir Guy was incensed at the marriage, had led his
                        brother- in-law to act in a manner which
                    cut off the hope of reconciliation, and obliged Archdeacon Morville to give up
                    his cause. He had gloried in supporting his sister and her husband, and enabling
                    them to set the old baronet at defiance. But young Morville's territorial pride
                    could not brook that he should be maintained, and especially that his child, the
                    heir of Redclyffe, should be born while he was living at the expense of a
                    musician. This feeling, aided by a yearning for home, and a secret love for his
                    father, mastered his resentment; he took his resolution, quarrelled with Dixon,
                    and carried off his wife, bent with desperation on forcing his father into
                    receiving her.
                Sebastian had not surmounted his anger at this step when he learnt its fatal
                    consequences. Ever since that time, nothing had prospered with him: he had
                    married, and sunk himself lower, and though he had an excellent engagement, the
                    days were past when he was the fashion, and his gains and his triumphs were not
                    what they had been. He had a long list of disappointments and jealousies with
                    which to entertain Guy, who, on his side, though resolved to like him, and
                    dreading to be too refined to be friends with his relations, could not feel as
                    thoroughly pleased as he intended to have been.
                Music was, however, a subject on which they could meet with equal enthusiasm, and
                    by means of this, together with the aid of his own imagination, Guy contrived to
                    be very happy. He stayed with his uncle as long as he could, and promised to
                    spend a day with him in London, on his way to Oxford, in October.
                The next morning, when Philip knew that Guy would be with his tutor, he walked to
                    Hollywell, came straight up to his aunt's dressing-room, asked her to send
                    Charlotte down to practise, and, seating himself opposite to her, began,—
                ‘What do you mean to do about this unfortunate rencontre?’
                ‘Do you mean Guy and his uncle? He is very much
                    pleased, poor boy! I like his entire freedom from false shame.’
                ‘A little true shame would be hardly misplaced about such a connexion!’
                ‘It is not his fault, and I hope it will not be his misfortune,’ said Mrs.
                    Edmonstone.
                ‘That it will certainly be,’ replied Philip, ‘if we are not on our guard; and,
                    indeed, if we are, there is little to be done with one so wilful. I might as
                    well have interfered with the course of a whirlwind.’
                ‘No, no, Philip; he is too candid to be wilful.’
                ‘I cannot be of your opinion, when I have seen him rushing into this
                    acquaintance, in spite of the warnings he must have had here—to say nothing of
                    myself.’
                ‘Nay, there I must defend him, though you will think me very unwise; I could not
                    feel that I ought to withhold him from taking some notice of so near a
                    relation.’
                Philip did think her so unwise, that he could only reply, gravely,—
                ‘We must hope it may produce no evil effects.’
                ‘How?’ she exclaimed, much alarmed. ‘Have you heard anything against him?’
                ‘You remember, of course, that Guy's father was regularly the victim of this
                    Dixon.’
                ‘Yes, yes; hut he has had enough to sober him. Do you know nothing more?’ said
                    Mrs. Edmonstone, growing nervously anxious lest she had been doing wrong in her
                    husband's absence.
                ‘I have been inquiring about him from old Redford, and I should judge him to be a
                    most dangerous companion; as, indeed, I could have told from his whole air,
                    which is completely that of a roué.’
                ‘You have seen him, then?’
                ‘Yes. He paid me the compliment of taking me for Sir Guy, and of course made off
                    in dismay when he discovered on whom he had fallen. I have seldom seen a less
                    creditable-looking individual.’
                
                ‘But what did Mr. Redford say? Did he know of the connexion?’
                ‘No; I am happy to say he did not. The fellow has decency enough not to boast of
                    that. Well, Redford did not know much of him personally: he said he had once
                    been much thought of, and had considerable talent and execution: but taste
                    changes, or he has lost something, so that, though he stands tolerably high in
                    his profession, he is not a leader. So much for his musical reputation. As to
                    his character, he is one of those people who are called no one's enemy but their
                    own, exactly the introduction, Guy has hitherto happily wanted, to every sort of
                    mischief.’
                ‘I think,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone, trying to console herself, ‘that Guy is too much
                    afraid of small faults to be invited by larger evils. While he punishes himself
                    for an idle word, he is not likely to go wrong in greater matters.’
                ‘Not at present.’
                ‘Is the man in debt or difficulties? Guy heard nothing of that, and I thought it
                    a good sign.’
                ‘I don't suppose he is. He ought not, for he has a fixed salary, besides what he
                    gets by playing at concerts when it is not the London season. The wasting money
                    on a spendthrift relation would be a far less evil than what I apprehend.’
                ‘I wish I knew what to do! It is very unlucky that your uncle is from home.’
                ‘Very.’
                Mrs. Edmonstone was frightened by the sense of responsibility, and was only
                    anxious to catch hold of something to direct her.
                ‘What would you have me do?’ she asked, helplessly.
                ‘Speak seriously to Guy. He must attend to you: he cannot fly out with a woman as
                    he does with me. Show him the evils that must result from such an intimacy. If
                    Dixon was in distress, I would not say a word, for he would be bound to assist
                    him; but as it is, the acquaintance can serve
                    no purpose but degrading Guy, and showing him the way to evil. Above all, make a
                    point of his giving up visiting him in London. That is the sure road to evil. A
                    youth of his age, under the conduct of a worn-out roué, connected with the theatres! I can hardly imagine anything
                    more mischievous.’
                ‘Yes, yes; I will speak to him,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone, perfectly appalled.
                She promised, but she found the fulfilment difficult, in her dislike of vexing
                    Guy, her fear of saying what was wrong, and a doubt whether the appearance of
                    persecuting Mr. Dixon, was not the very way to prevent Guy's own good sense from
                    finding out his true character; so she waited, hoping Mr. Edmonstone might
                    return before Guy went to Oxford, or that he might write decisively.
                Mrs. Edmonstone might have known her husband better than to expect him to write
                    decisively when he had neither herself nor Philip at his elbow. The same post
                    had brought him a letter from Guy, mentioning his meeting with his uncle, and
                    frankly explaining his plans for London; another from Philip, calling on him to
                    use all his authority to prevent this intercourse, and a third from his wife.
                    Bewildered between them, he took them to his sister, who, being as puzzle-headed
                    as himself, and only hearing his involved history of the affair, confused him
                    still more; so he wrote to Philip, saying he was sorry the fellow had turned up,
                    but he would guard against him. He told Guy he was sorry to say that his uncle
                    used to be a sad scamp, and he must take care, or it would be his poor father's
                    story over again; and to Mrs. Edmonstone he wrote that it was very odd that
                    everything always did go wrong when he was away.
                He thought these letters a great achievement, but his wife's perplexity was not
                    materially relieved.
                After considering a good while, she at length spoke to Guy; but it was not at a
                    happy time, for Philip, despairing of her, had
                    just taken on himself to remonstrate, and had angered him to the verge of an
                    outbreak.
                Mrs. Edmonstone, as mildly as she could, urged on him that such intercourse could
                    bring him little satisfaction, and might be very inconvenient; that his uncle
                    was in no distress, and did not require assistance; and that it was too probable
                    that in seeking him out he might meet with persons who might unsettle his
                    principles,—in short, that he had much better give up the visit to London.
                ‘This is Philip's advice,’ said Guy.
                ‘It is; but—’
                Guy looked impatient, and she paused.
                ‘You must forgive me,’ he said, ‘if I follow my own judgment. If Mr. Edmonstone
                    chose to lay his commands on me, I suppose I must submit; but I cannot see that
                    I am bound to obey Philip.’
                ‘Not to obey, certainly; but his advice—’
                ‘He is prejudiced and unjust,’ said Guy. ‘I don't believe that my uncle would
                    attempt to lead me into bad company; and surely you would not have me neglect or
                    look coldly on one who was so much attached to my parents. If he is not a
                    gentleman, and is looked down on by the world, it is not for his sister's son to
                    make him conscious of it.’
                ‘I like your feelings, Guy; I can say nothing against it, but that I am much
                    afraid your uncle is not highly principled.’
                ‘You have only Philip's account of him.’
                ‘You are resolved?’
                ‘Yes. I do not like not to take your advice, but I do believe this is my duty. I
                    do not think my determination is made in self will,’ said Guy, thoughtfully; ‘I
                    cannot think that I ought to neglect my uncle, because I happen to have been
                    born in a different station, which is all I have heard proved against him,’ he
                    added, smiling. ‘You will forgive me, will you not, for not following your
                    advice? for really and truly, if you will let
                    me say so, I think you would not have given it if Philip had not been talking to
                    you.’
                Mrs. Edmonstone confessed, with a smile, that perhaps it was so; but said she
                    trusted much to Philip's knowledge of the world. Guy agreed to this; though
                    still declaring Philip had no right to set him against his uncle, and there the
                    discussion ended.
                Guy went to London. Philip thought him very wilful, and his aunt very weak; and
                    Mr. Edmonstone, on coming home, said it could not be helped, and he wished to
                    hear no more about the matter.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER XII.
                
                    
                        
                            Her playful smile, her buoyance wild,
                            Bespeak the gentle, mirthful child;
                            But in her forehead's broad expanse,
                            Her chastened tones, her thoughtful glance,
                            Is mingled, with the child's light glee,
                            The modest maiden's dignity.
                        
                    
                
                ONE summer's day, two years after the ball and review, Mary
                    Ross and her father were finishing their early dinner, when she said,—
                ‘If you don't want me this afternoon, papa, I think I shall walk to Hollywell.
                    You know Eveleen de Courcy is there.’
                ‘No, I did not. What has brought her?’
                ‘As Charles expresses it, she has over-polked herself in London, and is sent here
                    for quiet and country air. I want to call on her, and to ask Sir Guy to give me
                    some idea as to the singing the children should practise for the
                    school-feast?’
                ‘Then you think Sir Guy will come to the feast?’
                ‘I reckon on him to conceal all the deficiencies in the children's singing.’
                ‘He wont desert you, as he did Mrs. Brownlow?’
                ‘O papa! you surely did not think him to blame in that affair?’
                ‘Honestly, Mary, if I thought about the matter at all, I thought it a pity he
                    should go so much to the Brownlows.’
                ‘I believe I could tell you the history, if you thought it worth while; and
                    though it may be gossip, I should like you to do justice to Sir Guy.’
                
                ‘Very well; though I don't think there is much danger of my doing otherwise. I
                    only wondered he should become intimate there at all.’
                ‘I believe Mrs. Edmonstone thinks it right he should see as much of the world as
                    possible, and not be always at home in their own set.’
                ‘Fair and proper.’
                ‘You know she has shown him all the people she could,—had Eveleen staying there,
                    and the Miss Nortons, and hunted him out to parties, when he had rather have
                    been at home.’
                ‘I thought he was fond of society. I remember your telling me how amused you were
                    with his enjoyment of his first ball.’
                ‘Ah! he was two years younger then, and all was new. He seems to me too deep and
                    sensitive not to find more pain than pleasure in commonplace society. I have
                    sometimes seen that he cannot speak either lightly or harshly of what he
                    disapproves, and people don't understand him. I was once sitting next him, when
                    there was some talking going on about an elopement; he did not laugh, looked
                    almost distressed, and at last said in a very low voice, to me, ‘I wish people
                    would not laugh about such things.’’
                ‘He is an extraordinary mixture of gaiety of heart and seriousness.’
                ‘Well, when Mrs. Brownlow had her nieces with her, and was giving those musical
                    parties, his voice made him valuable; and Mrs. Edmonstone told him he ought to
                    go to them. I believe he liked it at first, but he found there was no end to it;
                    it took up a great deal of time, and was a style of thing altogether that was
                    not desirable. Mrs. Edmonstone thought at first his reluctance was only shyness
                    and stay-at-home nonsense, that ought to be overcome; but when she had been
                    there; and saw how Mrs. Brownlow beset him, and the unpleasant fuss they made
                    about his singing, she quite came round to his mind, and was very sorry she had
                    exposed him to so much that was disagreeable.’
                
                ‘Well, Mary, I am glad to hear your account. My impression arose from something
                    Philip Morville said.’
                ‘Captain Morville never can approve of anything Sir Guy does! It is not like
                    Charles.’
                ‘How improved Charles Edmonstone is. He has lost that spirit of repining and
                    sarcasm, and lives as if he had an object.’
                ‘Yes; he employs himself now, and teaches Amy to do the same. You know, after the
                    governess went, we were afraid little Amy would never do anything but wait on
                    Charles, and idle in her pretty gentle way; but when he turned to better things
                    so did she, and her mind has been growing all this time. Perhaps you don't see
                    it, for she has not lost her likeness to a kitten, and looks all demure silence
                    with the elders, but she takes in what the wise say.’
                ‘She is a very good little thing; and I dare say will not be the worse for
                    growing up slowly.’
                ‘Those two sisters are specimens of fast and slow growth. Laura has always seemed
                    to be so much more than one year older than Amy, especially of late. She is more
                    like five-and-twenty than twenty. I wonder if she overworks herself. But how we
                    have lingered over our dinner!’
                By half-past three, Mary was entering a copse which led into Mr. Edmonstone's
                    field, when she heard gay tones, and a snatch of one of the sweetest of old
                    songs,— 
                        
                            Weep no more, lady; lady, weep no more,
                            Thy sorrow is in vain;
                            For violets pluck'd, the sweetest showers
                            Will ne'er make grow again.
                        
                    
                A merry, clear laugh followed, and a turn in the path showed her Guy, Amy, and
                    Charlotte, busy over a sturdy stock of eglantine. Guy, little changed in these
                    two years,—not much taller, and more agile than robust,—was lopping vigorously
                    with his great pruning-knife, Amabel nursing a bundle of drooping rose branches, Charlotte, her bonnet in a garland of
                    wild sweet-brier, holding the matting and continually getting entangled in the
                    long thorny wreaths.
                ‘And here comes the ‘friar of orders grey,’ to tell you so,’ exclaimed Guy, as
                    Mary, in her grey dress, came on them.
                ‘Oh, that is right, dear good friar!’ cried Amy.
                ‘We are so busy,’ said Charlotte; ‘Guy has made Mr. Markham send all these choice
                    buds from Redclyffe.’
                ‘Not from the park,’ said Guy, ‘we don't deal much in gardening; but Markham is a
                    great florist, and these are his bounties.’
                ‘And are you cutting that beautiful wild rose to pieces?’
                ‘Is it not a pity?’ said Amy. ‘We have used up all the stocks in the garden, and
                    this is to be transplanted in the autumn.’
                ‘She has been consoling it all the time by telling it it is for its good,’ said
                    Guy; ‘cutting off wild shoots, and putting in better things.’
                ‘I never said anything so pretty; and, after all, I don't know that the grand
                    roses will be equal to these purple shoots and blushing buds with long
                    whiskers.’
                ‘So Sir Guy was singing about the violets plucked to comfort you. But you must
                    not leave off, I want to see how you do it. I am gardener enough to like to look
                    on.’
                ‘We have only two more to put in.’
                Knife and fingers were busy, and Mary admired the dexterity with which the slit
                    was made in the green bark, well armed with firm red thorns, and the tiny
                    scarlet gem inserted, and bound with cotton and matting. At the least critical
                    parts of the work, she asked after the rest of the party, and was answered that
                    papa had driven Charles out in the pony carriage, and that Laura and Eveleen
                    were sitting on the lawn, reading and working with mamma. Eveleen was better,
                    but not strong, or equal to much exertion in the heat. Mary went on to speak of her school feast and ask her
                    questions.
                ‘O Guy, you must not go before that!’ cried Charlotte.
                ‘Are you going away?’
                ‘He is very naughty, indeed,’ said Charlotte. ‘He is going, I don't know where
                    all, to be stupid, and read mathematics.’
                ‘A true bill, I am sorry to say,’ said Guy; ‘I am to join a reading-party for the
                    latter part of the vacation.’
                ‘I hope not before Thursday week, though we are not asking you to anything worth
                    staying for.’
                ‘Oh, surely you need not go before that!’ said Amy, ‘need you?’
                ‘No; I believe I may stay till Friday, and I should delight in the feast, thank
                    you, Miss Ross,—I want to study such things. A bit more matting, Amy, if you
                    please. There, I think that will do.’
                ‘Excellently. Here is its name. See how neatly Charlie has printed it, Mary. Is
                    it not odd, that he prints so well when he writes so badly?’
                ‘‘The Seven Sisters.’ There, fair sisterhood, grow and thrive, till I come to
                    transplant you in the autumn. Are there any more?’
                ‘No, that is the last. Now, Mary, let us come to mamma.’
                Guy waited to clear the path of the numerous trailing briery branches, and the
                    others walked on, Amy telling how sorry they were to lose Guy's vacation, but
                    that he thought he could not give time enough to his studies here, and had
                    settled, at Oxford, to make one of a reading-party, under the tutorship of his
                    friend, Mr. Wellwood.
                ‘Where do they go?’
                ‘It is not settled. Guy wished it to be the sea-side; but Philip has been
                    recommending a farmhouse in Stylehurst parish, rather nearer St. Mildred's Wells
                    than Stylehurst, but quite out in the moor, and an immense way from both.’
                
                ‘Do you think it will be the place?’
                ‘Yes; Guy thinks it would suit Mr. Wellwood, because he has friends at St.
                    Mildred's, so he gave his vote for it. He expects to hear how it is settled
                    to-day or to-morrow.’
                Coming out on the lawn, they found the three ladies sitting under the acacia,
                    with their books and work. Laura did, indeed, look older than her real age, as
                    much above twenty as Amy looked under nineteen. She was prettier than ever; her
                    complexion exquisite in delicacy, her fine figure and the perfect outline of her
                    features more developed; but the change from girl to woman had passed over her,
                    and set its stamp on the anxious blue eye, and almost oppressed brow. Mary
                    thought it would be hard to define where was that difference. It was not want of
                    bloom, for of that Laura had more than any of the others, fresh, healthy, and
                    bright, while Amy was always rather pale, and Lady Eveleen was positively wan
                    and faded by London and late hours; nor was it loss of animation, for Laura
                    talked and laughed with interest and eagerness; nor was it thought, for little
                    Amy, when at rest, wore a meditative, pensive countenance; but there was
                    something either added or taken away, which made it appear that the serenity and
                    carelessness of early youth had fled from her, and the air of the cares of life
                    had come over her.
                Mary told her plans,—Church service at four, followed by a tea-drinking in the
                    fields; tea in the garden for the company, and play for the school children and
                    all who liked to join them. Every one likes such festivals, which have the
                    recommendation of permitting all to do as they please, bringing friends together
                    in perfect ease and freedom, with an object that raises them above the rank of
                    mere gatherings for the pleasure of rich neighbours.
                Mrs. Edmonstone gladly made the engagement and Lady Eveleen promised to be quite
                    well, and to teach the children all manner of new games, though she greatly despised the dulness of English children, and
                    had many droll stories of the stupidity of Laura's pupils, communicated to her,
                    with perhaps a little exaggeration, by Charles, and still further embellished by
                    herself, for the purpose of exciting Charlotte's indignation.
                Mary proceeded to her consultation about the singing, and was conducted by Guy
                    and Amy to the piano, and when her ears could not be indoctrinated by their best
                    efforts, they more than half engaged to walk to East Hill, and have a
                    conversation with the new school-master, whom Mary pitied for having fallen on
                    people so unable to appreciate his musical training as herself and her father.
                    The whole party walked back with her as far as the shade lasted; and at the end
                    of the next field she turned, saw them standing round the stile, thought what
                    happy people they were, and then resumed her wonder whither Laura's youthfulness
                    had flown.
                The situation of Philip and Laura had not changed. His regiment had never been at
                    any great distance from Hollywell, and he often came, venturing more as Laura
                    learnt to see him with less trepidation. He seldom or never was alone with her;
                    but his influence was as strong as ever, and look, word, and gesture, which she
                    alone could understand, told her what she was to him, and revealed his thoughts.
                    To him she was devoted, all her doings were with a view to please him, and
                    deserve his affection; he was her world, and sole object. Indeed, she was
                    sometimes startled by perceiving that tenderly as she loved her own family, all
                    were subordinate to him. She had long since known the true name of her feelings
                    for him; she could not tell when or how the certainty had come, but she was
                    conscious that it was love that they had acknowledged for one another and that
                    she only lived in the light of his love. Still she did not realize the evil of
                    concealment, it was so deep a sensation of her innermost heart, that she never
                    could imagine revealing it to any living creature, and she had besides so surrendered her judgment to her idol,
                    that no thought could ever cross her that he had enjoined what was wrong. Her
                    heart and soul were his alone, and she left the future to him without an
                    independent desire or reflection. All the embarrassments and discomforts which
                    her secret occasioned her were met willingly for his sake, and these were not a
                    few, though time had given her more self-command, or, perhaps, more properly
                    speaking, had hardened her.
                She always had a dread of tête-à-têtes and
                    conversations over novels, and these were apt to be unavoidable when Eveleen was
                    at Hollywell. The twilight wanderings on the terrace were a daily habit, and
                    Eveleen almost always paired with her. On this evening in particular, Laura was
                    made very uncomfortable by Eveleen's declaring that it was positively impossible
                    and unnatural that the good heroine of some novel should have
                    concealed her engagement from her parents. Laura could not help saying that
                    there might be many excuses; then afraid that she was exciting suspicion,
                    changed the subject in great haste, and tried to make Eveleen come indoors,
                    telling her she would tire herself to death, and vexed by her cousin's
                    protestations that the fresh cool air did her good. Besides, Eveleen was looking
                    with attentive eyes at another pair who were slowly walking up and down the
                    shady walk that bordered the grass-plot, and now and then standing still to
                    enjoy the subdued silence of the summer evening, and the few distant sounds that
                    marked the perfect lull.
                ‘How calm—how beautiful!’ murmured Amabel.
                ‘It only wants the low solemn surge and ripple of the tide, and its dash on the
                    rocks,’ said Guy. ‘If ever there was music, it is there; but it makes one think
                    what the ear must be that can take in the whole of those harmonics.’
                ‘How I should like to hear it!’
                ‘And see it. O Amy! to show you the sunny sea,—the sense of breadth and vastness
                    in that pale clear horizon line, and the
                    infinite number of fields of light between you and it,—and the free feelings as
                    you stand on some high crag, the wind blowing in your face across half the
                    globe, and the waves dashing far below! I am growing quite thirsty for the
                    sea.’
                ‘You know, papa said something about your taking your reading-party to
                    Redclyffe.’
                ‘True, but I don't think Markham would like it, and it would put old Mrs. Drew
                    into no end of a fuss.’
                ‘Not like to have you?’
                ‘O yes, I should be all very well; but if they heard I was bringing three or four
                    men with me, they would think them regular wild beasts. They would be in an
                    awful fright. Besides, it is so long since I have been at home, that I don't
                    altogether fancy going there till I settle there for good.’
                ‘Ah! it will be sad going there at first.’
                ‘And it has not been my duty yet.’
                ‘But you will be glad when you get there?’
                ‘Sha'n't I? I wonder if any one has been to shoot the rabbits on the Shag rock.
                    They must have quite overrun it by this time. But I don't like the notion of the
                    first day. There is not only the great change, but a stranger at the
                    vicarage.’
                ‘Do you know anything about the new clergyman? I believe Mrs. Ashford is a
                    connection of Lady Thorndale's?’
                ‘Yes; Thorndale calls them pattern people, and I have no doubt they will do great
                    good in the parish. I am sure we want some enlightenment, for we are a most
                    primitive race, and something beyond Jenny Robinson's dame school would do us no
                    harm.’
                Here Mr. Edmonstone called from the window that they must come in.
                Mrs. Edmonstone thought deeply that night. She had not forgotten her notion that
                    Eveleen was attracted by Guy's manners, and had been curious to see what would
                    happen when Eveleen was sent to Hollywell for country air.
                
                She had a very good opinion of Lady Eveleen. Since the former visit, she had
                    shown more spirit of improvement, and laid aside many little follies; she had
                    put herself under Laura's guidance, and tamed down into what gave the promise of
                    a sensible woman, more than anything that had hitherto been observed in her; and
                    little addicted to match-making as Mrs. Edmonstone was, she could not help
                    thinking that Eva was almost worthy of her dear Guy (she never could expect to
                    find anyone she should think quite worthy of him, he was too like one of her own
                    children for that), and on the other hand, how delighted Lord and Lady Kilcoran
                    would be. It was a very pretty castle in the air; but in the midst of it, the
                    notion suddenly darted into Mrs. Edmonstone's head, that while she was thinking
                    of it, it was Amy, not Eveleen, who was constantly with Guy. Reading and music,
                    roses, botany, and walks on the terrace! She looked back, and it was still the
                    same. Last Easter vacation, how they used to study the stars in the evening, to
                    linger in the greenhouse in the morning nursing the geraniums, and to practise
                    singing over the school-room piano; how, in a long walk, they always paired
                    together; and how they seemed to share every pursuit or pleasure.
                Now Mrs. Edmonstone was extremely fond of Guy, and trusted him entirely; but she
                    thought she ought to consider how far this should be allowed. Feeling that he
                    ought to see more of the world, she had sent him as much as she could into
                    society, but it had only made him cling closer to home. Still he was but twenty,
                    it was only a country neighbourhood, and there was much more for him to see
                    before he could fairly be supposed to know his own mind. She knew he would act
                    honourably; but she had a horror of letting him entangle himself with her
                    daughter before he was fairly able to judge of his own feelings. Or, if this was
                    only behaving with a brother's freedom and confidence, Mrs. Edmonstone felt it
                    was not safe for her poor little Amy, who might learn so to depend on him as to
                        miss him grievously when this intimacy
                    ceased, as it must when he settled at his own home. It would be right, while it
                    was still time, to make her remember that they were not brother and sister, and
                    by checking their present happy, careless, confidential intercourse, to save her
                    from the chill which seemed to have been cast on Laura. Mrs. Edmonstone was the
                    more anxious, because she deeply regretted not having been sufficiently watchful
                    in Laura's case, and perhaps she felt an unacknowledged conviction that if there
                    was real love on Guy's part, it would not be hurt by a little reserve on Amy's.
                    Yet to have to speak to her little innocent daughter on such a matter disturbed
                    her so much, that she could hardly have set about it, if Amy had not, at that
                    very moment, knocked at her door.
                ‘My dear, what has kept you up so late?’
                ‘We have been sitting in Eveleen's room, mamma, hearing about her London life;
                    and then we began to settle our plans for to-morrow, and I came to ask what you
                    think of them. You know Guy has promised to go and hear the East-hill singing,
                    and we were proposing, if you did not mind it, to take the pony-carriage and the
                    donkey, and go in the morning to East-hill, have luncheon, and get Mary to go
                    with us to the top of the great down, where we have never been. Guy has been
                    wanting us, for a long time past, to go and see the view, and saying there is a
                    track quite smooth enough to drive Charlie to the top.’
                Amy wondered at her mother's look of hesitation. In fact, the scheme was so
                    accordant with their usual habits that it was impossible to find any objection;
                    yet it all hinged on Guy, and the appointment at East-hill might lead to a great
                    many more.
                ‘Do you wish us to do anything else, mamma? We don't care about it.’
                ‘No, my dear,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone, ‘I see no reason against it. But—’ and she
                    felt as if she was making a desperate plunge, ‘there is something I want to say
                    to you.’
                
                Amy stood ready to hear, but Mrs. Edmonstone paused. Another effort, and she
                    spoke:—
                ‘Amy, my dear, I don't wish to find fault, but I thought of advising you to take
                    care. About Guy—’
                The very brilliant pink which instantly overspread Amy's face made her mother
                    think her warning more expedient.
                ‘You have been spending a great deal of time with him of late, very sensibly and
                    pleasantly, I know; I don't blame you at all, my dear, so you need not look
                    distressed. I only want you to be careful. You know, though we call him cousin,
                    he is scarcely a relation at all.’
                ‘O mamma, don't go on,’ said poor little Amy, hurriedly; ‘indeed I am very
                    sorry!’
                For Amy understood that it was imputed to her that she had been forward and
                    unmaidenly. Mrs. Edmonstone saw her extreme distress, and, grieved at the pain
                    she had inflicted, tried to reassure her as much as might be safe.
                ‘Indeed, my dear, you have done nothing amiss. I only intended to tell you to be
                    cautious for fear you should get into a way of going on which might not look
                    well. Don't make any great difference, I only meant that there should not be
                    quite so much singing and gardening alone with him, or walking in the garden in
                    the evening. You can manage to draw back a little, so as to keep more with me or
                    with Laura, and I think that will be the best way.’
                Every word, no matter what, increased the burning of poor Amy's cheeks. A broad
                    accusation of flirting would have been less distressing to many girls than this
                    mild and delicate warning was to one of such shrinking modesty and maidenly
                    feeling. She had a sort of consciousness that she enjoyed partaking in his
                    pursuits, and this made her sense of confusion and shame overwhelming. What had
                    she been thoughtlessly doing? She could not speak, she could not look. Her
                    mother put her arm round her, and Amy hid her head on her shoulder, and held her fast. Mrs. Edmonstone
                    kissed and caressed the little fluttering bird, then saying, ‘Good night, my own
                    dear child,’ unloosed her embrace.
                ‘Good night, dear mamma,’ whispered Amy. ‘I am very sorry.’
                ‘You need not be sorry, my dear, only be careful. Good night.’ And it would be
                    hard to say whether the mother or the daughter had the hottest cheeks.
                Poor little Amy! what was her dismay as she asked herself, again and again, what
                    she had been doing and what she was to do? The last was plain,—she knew what was
                    right, and do it she must. There would be an end of much that was pleasant, and
                    a fresh glow came over her as she owned how very, very pleasant; but if it was
                    not quite the thing,—if mamma did not approve, so it must be. True, all her
                    doings received their zest from Guy,—her heart bounded at the very sound of his
                    whistle, she always heard his words through all the din of a whole
                    party,—nothing was complete without him, nothing good without his without his
                    approval,—but so much the more shame for her. It was a kind of seeking him which
                    was of all things the most shocking. So there should be an end of it,—never mind
                    the rest! Amy knelt down, and prayed that she might keep her resolution.
                She did not know how much of her severity towards herself was learned from the
                    example that had been two years before her. Nor did she think whether the
                    seeking had been mutual; she imagined it all her own doing, and did not guess
                    that she would give pain to Guy by withdrawing herself from him.
                The morning gave vigour to her resolution, and when Laura came to ask what mamma
                    thought of their project, Amy looked confused—said she did not know—she believed
                    it would not do. But just then in came her mother, to say she had been
                    considering of the expedition, and meant to join it herself. Amy understood,
                    blushed, and was silently grateful.
                
                When Laura wanted to alter her demeanour towards Guy, being perfectly cool, and
                    not in the least conscious, she had acted with great judgment, seen exactly what
                    to do, and what to leave undone, so as to keep up appearances. But it was not so
                    with Amy. She was afraid of herself, and was in extremes. She would not come
                    down till the last moment, that there might be no talking in the window. She
                    hardly spoke at breakfast-time, and adhered closely to Laura and Eveleen when
                    they wandered in the garden. Presently Charles looked out from the dressing-room
                    window, calling,—
                ‘Amy, Guy is ready to read.’
                ‘I can't come. Read without me,’ she answered, hoping Charlie would not be vexed,
                    and feeling her face light up again.
                The hour for the expedition came, and Amy set off walking with Laura, because Guy
                    was with Mrs. Edmonstone; but presently, after holding open a gate for
                    Charlotte, who was on the donkey, he came up to the sisters, and joined in the
                    conversation. Amy saw something in the hedge—a foxglove, she believed—it would
                    have done as well if it had been a nettle—she stopped to gather it, hoping to
                    fall behind them, but they waited for her. She grew silent, but Guy appealed to
                    her. She ran on to Charlotte and her donkey, but at the next gate Guy had joined
                    company again. At last she put herself under her mother's wing, and by keeping
                    with her did pretty well all the time she was at East Hill. But when they went
                    on, she was riding the donkey, and it, as donkeys always are, was resolved on
                    keeping a-head of the walkers, so that as Guy kept by her side, it was a more
                    absolute tête-à-tête than ever.
                At the top of the hill they found a fine view, rich and extensive, broad woods,
                    fields waving with silvery barley, trim meadows, fair hazy blue distance, and a
                    dim line of sea beyond. This, as Amy knew, was Guy's delight, and further, what
                    she would not tell herself, was that he chiefly cared for showing it to her. It was so natural to call him to admire
                    everything beautiful, and ask if it was equal to Redclyffe, that she found
                    herself already turning to him to participate in his pleasure, as he pointed out
                    all that was to be seen; but she recollected, blushed, and left her mother to
                    speak. He had much to show. There was a hanging wood on one side of the hill,
                    whence he had brought her more than one botanical prize, and she must now visit
                    their native haunts. It was too great a scramble for Mrs. Edmonstone, with all
                    her good will; Eveleen was to be kept still, and not to tire herself; Laura did
                    not care for botany, nor love brambles, and Amy was obliged to stand and look
                    into the wood, saying, ‘No, thank you, I don't think I can,’ and then run back
                    to Mary and Charles; while Charlotte was loudly calling out that it was
                    delightful fun, and that she was very stupid. In another minute Guy had
                    overtaken her, and in his gentle, persuasive voice, was telling her it was very
                    easy, and she must come and see the bird's-nest orchises. She would have liked
                    it above all things, but she thought it very kind of Guy not to seem angry when
                    she said, ‘No, thank you.’
                Mary, after what she had seen yesterday, could not guess at the real reason, or
                    she would have come with her; but she thought Amy was tired, and would rather
                    not. Poor Amy was tired, very tired, before the walk was over, but her weary
                    looks made it worse, for Guy offered her his arm. ‘No, thank you,’ she said, ‘I
                    am getting on very well;’ and she trudged on resolutely, for her mother was in
                    the carriage, and to lag behind the others would surely make him keep with
                    her.
                Mrs. Edmonstone was very sorry for her fatigue, but Amy found it a good excuse
                    for not wandering in the garden, or joining in the music. It had been a very
                    uncomfortable day; she hoped she had done right; at any rate, she had the
                    peaceful conviction of having tried to do so.
                The next day, Amy was steady to her resolution. No reading with the two youths,
                    though Charles scolded her; sitting in her
                    room till Guy was gone out, going indoors as soon as she heard him return, and
                    in the evening, staying with Charles when her sisters and cousins went out; but
                    this did not answer, for Guy came and sat by them. She moved away as soon as
                    possible, but the more inclined she was to linger, the more she thought she
                    ought to go; so murmuring something about looking for Laura, she threw on her
                    scarf, and sprung to the window. Her muslin caught on the bolt, she turned, Guy
                    was already disentangling it, and she met his eye. It was full of anxious,
                    pleading inquiry, which to her seemed upbraiding, and, not knowing what to do,
                    she exclaimed, hurriedly, ‘Thank you; no harm done!’ and darted into the garden,
                    frightened to feel her face glowing and her heart throbbing. She could not help
                    looking back to see if he was following. No, he was not attempting it; he was
                    leaning against the window, and on she hastened, the perception dawning on her
                    that she was hurting him; he might think her rude, unkind, capricious, he who
                    had always been so kind to her, and when he was going away so soon. ‘But it is
                    right; it must be done,’ said little Amy to herself, standing still, now that
                    she was out of sight. ‘If I was wrong before, I must bear it now, and he will
                    see the rights of it sooner or later. The worst of all would be my not doing the
                    very most right to please anybody. Besides he can't really care for
                    missing silly little Amy when he has mamma and Charlie. And he is going away, so
                    it will be easier to begin right when he comes back. Be that as it may, it must
                    be done. I'll get Charlie to tell me what he was saying about the painted
                    glass.’
            
            
                
                CHAPTER XIII.
                
                    
                        
                            
                                Oh, thou child of many prayers!
                                Life hath quicksands—life hath snares—
                                Care and age come unawares.
                            
                            
                                Like the swell of some sweet tune,
                                Morning rises into noon,
                                May glides onward into June.
                            
                        
                        —LONGFELLOW.
                    
                
                ‘WHAT is the matter with Amy? What makes her so odd?’ asked
                    Charles, as his mother came to wish him good night.
                ‘Poor little dear! don't take any notice,’ was all the answer he received; and
                    seeing that he was to be told no more, he held his peace.
                Laura understood without being told. She, too, had thought Guy and Amy were a
                    great deal together, and combining various observations, she perceived that her
                    mother must have given Amy a caution. She therefore set herself, like a good
                    sister, to shelter Amy as much as she could, save her from awkward situations,
                    and, above all, to prevent her altered manner from being remarked. This was the
                    less difficult, as Eveleen was subdued and languid, and more inclined to lie on
                    the sofa and read than to look out for mirth.
                As to poor little Amy, her task was in one way become less hard, for Guy had
                    ceased to haunt her, and seemed to make it his business to avoid all that could
                    cause her embarrassment; but in another way it hurt her much more, for she now
                    saw the pain she was causing. If obliged to do anything for her, he would give a
                    look as if to ask pardon, and then her rebellious heart would so throb with joy as to cause her dismay
                    at having let herself fall into so hateful a habit as wishing to attract
                    attention. What a struggle it was not to obey the impulse of turning to him for
                    the smile with which he would greet anything in conversation that interested
                    them both, and how wrong she thought it not to be more consoled when she saw him
                    talking to Eveleen, or to any of the others, as if he was doing very well
                    without her. This did not often happen; he was evidently out of spirits, and
                    thoughtful, and Amy was afraid some storm might be gathering respecting Mr.
                    Sebastian Dixon, about whom there always seemed to be some uncomfortable
                    mystery.
                Mrs. Edmonstone saw everything, and said nothing. She was very sorry for them
                    both, but she could not interfere, and could only hope she had done right, and
                    protected Amy as far as she was able. She was vexed now and then to see Eveleen
                    give knowing smiles and significant glances, feared that she guessed what was
                    going on, and wondered whether to give her a hint not to add to Amy's confusion;
                    but her great dislike to enter on such a subject prevailed, and she left things
                    to take their course, thinking that, for once, Guy's departure would be a
                    relief.
                The approach of anything in the shape of a party of pleasure was one of the best
                    cures for Eveleen's ailments, and the evening before Mary's tea-drinking, she
                    was in high spirits, laughing and talking a great deal, and addressing herself
                    chiefly to Guy. He exerted himself to answer, but it did not come with life and
                    spirit, his countenance did not light up, and at last Eveleen said, ‘Ah! I see I
                    am a dreadful bore. I'll go away, and leave you to repose.’
                ‘Lady Eveleen!’ he exclaimed, in consternation; ‘what have I been doing—what have
                    I been thinking of?’
                ‘Nay, that is best known to yourself, though I think perhaps I could divine,’
                    said she, with that archness and grace that always seemed to remove the 
                        un-
                        unfavourable
                     favourable impression that her
                    proceedings might have given. ‘Shall I?’
                ‘No, no,’ he answered, colouring crimson, and then trying to laugh off his
                    confusion, and find some answer, but without success; and Eveleen, perceiving
                    her aunt's eyes were upon her, suddenly recollected that she had gone quite as
                    far as decorum allowed, and made as masterly a retreat as the circumstances
                    permitted.
                ‘Well, I have always thought a ‘penny for your thoughts’ the boldest offer in the
                    world, and now it is proved.’
                This scene made Mrs. Edmonstone doubly annoyed, the next morning, at waking with
                    a disabling headache, which made it quite impossible for her to attempt going to
                    Mary Ross's fête. With great sincerity, Amy
                    entreated to be allowed to remain at home, but she thought it would only be
                    making the change more remarkable; she did not wish Mary to be disappointed;
                    among so many ladies, Amy could easily avoid getting into difficulties; while
                    Laura would, she trusted, be able to keep Eveleen in order.
                The day was sunny, and all went off to admiration. The gentlemen presided over
                    the cricket, and the ladies over ‘blind-man's buff’ and ‘thread my needle;’ but
                    perhaps Mary was a little disappointed that, though she had Sir Guy's bodily
                    presence, the peculiar blitheness and animation which he usually shed around him
                    were missing. He sung at church, he filled tiny cups from huge pitchers of tea,
                    he picked up and pacified a screaming child that had tumbled off a gate—he was
                    as good-natured and useful as possible, but he was not his joyous and brilliant
                    self.
                Amy devoted herself to the smallest fry, played assiduously for three quarters of
                    an hour with a fat, grave boy of three, who stood about a yard-and-a-half from
                    her, solemnly throwing a ball into her lap, and never catching it again, took
                    charge of many caps and bonnets, and walked about with Louisa Harper, a
                    companion whom no one envied her.
                
                In conclusion, the sky clouded over, it became chilly, and a shower began to
                    fall. Laura pursued Eveleen, and Amy hunted up Charlotte from the utmost parts
                    of the field, where she was the very centre of ‘winding up the clock,’ and
                    sorely against her will, dragged her off the wet grass. About sixty yards from
                    the house, Guy met them with an umbrella, which, without speaking, he gave to
                    Charlotte. Amy said, ‘Thank you,’ and again came that look. Charlotte rattled
                    on, and hung back to talk to Guy, so that Amy could not hasten on without
                    leaving her shelterless. It may be believed that she had the conversation to
                    herself. At the door they met Mary and her father, going to dismiss their flock,
                    who had taken refuge in a cart-shed at the other end of the field. Guy asked if
                    he could be of any use; Mr. Ross said no, and Mary begged Amy and Charlotte to
                    go up to her room, and change their wet shoes.
                There, Amy would fain have stayed, flushed and agitated as those looks made her;
                    but Charlotte was in wild spirits, delighted at having been caught in the rain,
                    and obliged to wear shoes a mile too large, and eager to go and share the fun in
                    the drawing-room. There, in the twilight, they found a mass of young ladies
                    herded together, making a confused sound of laughter, and giggling, while at the
                    other end of the room, Amy could just see Guy sitting alone in a dark
                    corner.
                Charlotte's tongue was soon the loudest in the medley, to which Amy did not at
                    first attend, till she heard Charlotte saying,—
                ‘Ah! you should hear Guy sing that.’
                ‘What?’ she whispered to Eveleen.
                ‘‘The Land of the Leal,’’ was the answer.
                ‘I wish he would sing it now,’ said Ellen Harper.
                ‘This darkness would be just the time for music,’ said Eveleen; ‘it is quite a
                    witching time.’
                ‘Why don't you ask him?’ said Ellen. ‘Come, Charlotte, there's a good girl, go
                    and ask him.’
                
                ‘Shall I?’ said Charlotte, whispering and giggling with an affectation of
                    shyness.
                ‘No, no, Charlotte,’ said Laura.
                ‘No! why not?’ said Eveleen. ‘Don't be afraid, Charlotte.’
                ‘He is so grave,’ said Charlotte.
                Eveleen had been growing wilder and less guarded all day, and now, partly liking
                    to teaze and surprise the others, and partly emboldened by the darkness, she
                    answered,—
                ‘It will do him all manner of good. Here, Charlotte, I'll tell you how to make
                    him. Tell him Amy wants him to do it.’
                ‘Ay! tell him so,’ cried Ellen, and they laughed in a manner that overpowered Amy
                    with horror and shyness. She sprung to seize Charlotte, and stop her; she could
                    not speak, but Louisa Harper caught her arm, and Laura's grave orders were
                    drowned in a universal titter, and suppressed exclamation,—‘Go, Charlotte, go;
                    we will never forgive you if you don't!’
                ‘Stop!’ Amy struggled to cry, breaking from Louisa, and springing up in a sort of
                    agony. Guy, who had such a horror of singing anything, deep in pathos or
                    religious feeling, to mixed or unfit auditors, asked to do so in her name!
                    ‘Stop! oh, Charlotte!’ It was too late; Charlotte, thoughtless with merriment,
                    amused at vexing Laura, set up with applause, and confident in Guy's good
                    nature, had come to him, and was saying,—‘Oh Guy! Amy wants you to come and sing
                    us the ‘Land of the Leal.’’
                Amy saw him start up. What did he think of her? Oh, what! He stepped towards
                    them. The silly girls cowered as if they had roused a lion. His voice was not
                    loud—it was almost as gentle as usual; but it quivered, as if it was hard to
                    keep it so, and, as well as she could see, his face was rigid and stern as iron.
                    ‘Did you wish it?’ he said, addressing himself to her, as if she was the only
                    person present.
                
                Her breath was almost gone. ‘Oh! I beg your pardon,’ she faltered. She could not
                    exculpate herself, she saw it looked like an idle, almost like an indecorous
                    trick, unkind, everything abhorrent to her and to him, especially in the present
                    state of things. His eyes were on her, his head bent towards her; he waited for
                    an answer. ‘I beg your pardon,’ was all she could say.
                There was—yes, there was—one of those fearful flashes of his kindling eye. She
                    felt as if she was shrinking to nothing; she heard him say, in a low, hoarse
                    tone, ‘I am afraid I cannot;’ then Mr. Ross, Mary, lights came in; there was a
                    bustle and confusion, and when next she was clearly conscious, Laura was
                    ordering the carriage.
                When it came, there was an inquiry for Sir Guy.
                ‘He is gone home,’ said Mr. Ross. ‘I met him in the passage, and wished him good
                    night.’
                Mr. Ross did not add what he afterwards told his daughter, that Guy seemed not to
                    know whether it was raining or not; that he had put an umbrella into his hand,
                    and seen him march off at full speed, through the pouring rain, with it under
                    his arm.
                The ladies entered the carriage. Amy leant back in her corner, Laura forbore to
                    scold either Eveleen or Charlotte till she could have them separately; Eveleen
                    was silent, because she was dismayed at the effect she had produced, and
                    Charlotte, because she knew there was a scolding impending over her.
                They found no one in the drawing-room but Mr. Edmonstone and Charles, who said
                    they had heard the door open, and Guy run up-stairs, but they supposed he was
                    wet through, as he had not made his appearance. It was very inhospitable in the
                    girls not to have made room for him in the carriage.
                Amy went to see how her mother was, longing to tell her whole trouble, but found
                    her asleep, and was obliged to leave it till the morrow. Poor child, she slept
                    very little, but she would not go to her mother before breakfast, lest she
                    should provoke the headache into staying
                    another day. Guy was going by the train at twelve o'clock, and she was resolved
                    that something should be done; so, as soon as her father had wished Guy good
                    bye, and ridden off to his justice meeting, she entreated her mother to come
                    into the dressing-room, and hear what she had to say.
                ‘Oh, mamma! the most dreadful thing has happened!’ and, hiding her face, she told
                    her story, ending with a burst of weeping as she said how Guy was displeased.
                    ‘And well he might be! That after all that has vexed him this week, I should
                    teaze him with such a trick. Oh, mamma! what must he think?’
                ‘My dear, there was a good deal of silliness; but you need not treat it as if it
                    was so very shocking.’
                ‘Oh, but it hurt him! He was angry, and now I know how it is, he is angry with
                    himself for being angry. Oh, how foolish I have been! What shall I do?’
                ‘Perhaps we can let him know it was not your fault,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone,
                    thinking it might be very salutary for Charlotte to send her to confess.
                ‘Do you think so?’ cried Amy, eagerly. ‘Oh! that would make it all comfortable.
                    Only it was partly mine, for not keeping Charlotte in better order, and we must
                    not throw it all on her and Eveleen. You think we may tell him?’
                ‘I think he ought not to be allowed to fancy you let your name be so used.’
                A message came for Mrs. Edmonstone, and while she was attending to it, Amy
                    hastened away, fully believing that her mother had authorized her to go and
                    explain it to Guy, and ask his pardon. It was what she thought the natural thing
                    to do, and she was soon by his side, as she saw him pacing, with folded arms,
                    under the wall.
                Much had lately been passing in Guy's mind. He had gone on floating on the sunny
                    stream of life at Hollywell, too happy to observe its especial charm, till the
                    change in Amy's manner cast a sudden gloom
                    over all. Not till then did he understand his own feelings, and recognize in her
                    the being he had dreamt of. Amy was what made Hollywell precious to him. Sternly
                    as he was wont to treat his impulses, he did not look on his affection as an
                    earthborn fancy, liable to draw him from higher things, and, therefore, to be
                    combated; he deemed her rather a guide and guard whose love might arm him,
                    soothe him, and encourage him. Yet he had little hope, for he did not do justice
                    to his powers of inspiring affection; no one could distrust his temper and his
                    character as much as he did himself, and with his ancestry and the doom he
                    believed attached to his race, with his own youth and untried principles, with
                    his undesirable connections, and the reserve he was obliged to exercise
                    regarding them, he considered himself as objectionable a person as could well be
                    found, as yet untouched by any positive crime, and he respected the Edmonstones
                    too much to suppose that these disadvantages could be counterbalanced for a
                    moment by his position; indeed, he interpreted Amy's coolness by supposing that
                    there was a desire to discourage his attentions. No poor tutor or penniless
                    cousin ever felt he was doing a more desperate thing in confessing an
                    attachment, than did Sir Guy Morville when he determined that all should be
                    told, at the risk of losing her for ever, and closing against himself the doors
                    of his happy home. It was not right and fair by her parents, he thought, so to
                    regard their daughter, and live in the same house with his sentiments unavowed,
                    and as to Amy herself, if his feelings had reached such a pitch of sensitiveness
                    that he must needs behave like an angry lion, because her name had been dragged
                    into an idle joke, it was high time it should be explained, unpropitious as the
                    moment might be for declaring his attachment, when he had manifested such a
                    temper as any woman might dread. Thus he made up his mind that, come of it what
                    might, he would not leave Hollywell that day till the truth was told. Just as he
                    was turning to find Mrs. Edmonstone and ‘put
                    his fate to the touch,’ a little figure stood beside him, and Amy's own sweet,
                    low tones were saying, imploringly,—
                ‘Guy, I wanted to tell you how sorry I am you were so teazed last night.’
                ‘Don't think of it!’ said he, taken extremely by surprise.
                ‘It was our fault, I could not stop it; I should have kept Charlotte in better
                    order, but they would not let her hear me. I knew it was what you dislike
                    particularly, and I was very sorry.’
                ‘You—I was—I was. But no matter now. Amy,’ he added earnestly, ‘may I ask you to
                    walk on with me a little way? I must say something to you.’
                Was this what ‘mamma’ objected to? Oh no! Amy felt she must stay now, and, in
                    truth, she was glad it was right, though her heart beat fast, fast, faster, as
                    Guy, pulling down a long, trailing branch of Noisette rose, and twisting it in
                    his hand, paused for a few moments, then spoke collectedly, and without
                    hesitation, though with the tremulousness of subdued agitation, looking the
                    while not at her, but straight before him.
                ‘You ought to be told why your words and looks have such effect on me as to make
                    me behave as I did last night. Shame on me for such conduct! I know its evil,
                    and how preposterous it must make what I have to tell you. I don't know now long
                    it has been, but almost ever since I came here, a feeling has been growing up in
                    me towards you, such as I can never have for any one else.’
                The flame rushed into Amy's cheeks, and no one could have told what she felt, as
                    he paused again, and then went on speaking more quickly, as if his emotion was
                    less under control.
                ‘If ever there is to be happiness for me on earth, it must be through you; as
                    you, for the last three years, have been all my brightness here. What I feel for
                    you is beyond all power of telling you, Amy! But I know full well all there is against me—I know I am
                    untried, and how can I dare to ask one born to brightness and happiness to share
                    the doom of my family?’
                Amy's impulse was that anything shared with him would be welcome; but the
                    strength of the feeling stifled the power of expression, and she could not utter
                    a word.
                ‘It seems selfish even to dream of it,’ he proceeded, ‘yet I must,—I cannot help
                    it. To feel that I had your love to keep me safe, to know that you watched for
                    me, prayed for me, were my own, my Verena,—oh Amy! it would be more joy than I
                    have ever dared to hope for. But mind,’ he added, after another brief pause, ‘I
                    would not even ask you to answer me now, far less to bind yourself, even if—if
                    it were possible. I know my trial is not come; and were I to render myself, by
                    positive act, unworthy even to think of you, it would be too dreadful to have
                    entangled you, and made you unhappy. No. I speak now, because I ought not to
                    remain here with such feelings unknown to your father and mother.’
                At that moment, close on the other side of the box-tree clump, were heard the
                    wheels of Charles's garden-chair, and Charlotte's voice talking to him, as he
                    made his morning tour round the garden. Amy flew off, like a little bird to its
                    nest, and never stopped till, breathless and crimson, she darted into the
                    dressing-room, threw herself on her knees, and with her face hidden in her
                    mother's lap, exclaimed in panting, half-smothered whispers, which needed all
                    Mrs. Edmonstone's intuition to make them intelligible,—
                ‘O mamma, mamma, he says—he says he loves me!’
                Perhaps Mrs. Edmonstone was not so very much surprised; but she had no time to do
                    more than raise and kiss the burning face, and see, at a moment's glance, how
                    bright was the gleam of frightened joy, in the downcast eye and troubled smile;
                    when two knocks, given rapidly, were heard, and almost at the same moment the
                    door opened, and Guy stood before her, his
                    face no less glowing than that which Amy buried again on her mother's knee.
                ‘Come in, Guy,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone, as he stood doubtful for a moment at the
                    door, and there was a sweet smile of proud, joyful affection on her face,
                    conveying even more encouragement than her tone. Amy raised her head, and moved
                    as if to leave the room. 
                ‘Don't go,’ he said, earnestly, ‘unless you wish it.’
                Amy did not wish it, especially now that she had her mother to save her
                    confusion, and she sat on a footstool, holding her mother's hand, looking up to
                    Guy, whenever she felt bold enough, and hanging down her head when he said what
                    showed how much more highly he prized her than silly little Amy could
                    deserve.
                ‘You know what I am come to say,’ he began, standing by the mantel-shelf, as was
                    his wont in his conferences with Mrs. Edmonstone; and he repeated the same in
                    substance as he had said to Amy in the garden, though with less calmness and
                    coherence, and far more warmth of expression, as if, now that she was protected
                    by her mother's presence, he exercised less force in self-restraint.
                Never was anyone happier than was Mrs. Edmonstone; loving Guy so heartily, seeing
                    the beauty of his character in each word, rejoicing that such affection should
                    be bestowed on her little Amy, exulting in her having won such a heart, and
                    touched and gratified by the free confidence with which both had at once
                    hastened to pour out all to her, not merely as a duty, but in the full
                    ebullition of their warm young love. The only difficulty was to bring herself to
                    speak with prudence becoming her position, whilst she was sympathizing with them
                    as ardently as if she was not older than both of them put together. When Guy
                    spoke of himself as unproved, and undeserving of trust, it was all she could do
                    to keep from declaring there was no one whom she thought so safe.
                ‘While you go on as you have begun, Guy.’
                ‘If you tell me to hope! Oh, Mrs. Edmonstone!
                    is it wrong that an earthly incentive to persevere should have power which
                    sometimes seems greater than the true one?’
                ‘There is the best and strongest ground of all for trusting you,’ said she. ‘If
                    you spoke keeping right only for Amy's sake, then I might fear; but when she is
                    second, there is confidence indeed.’
                ‘If speaking were all!’ said Guy.
                ‘There is one thing I ought to say,’ she proceeded; ‘you know you are very young,
                    and though—though I don't know that I can say so in my own person, a prudent
                    woman would say, that you have seen so little of the world, that you may easily
                    meet a person you would like better than such a quiet little dull thing as your
                    guardian's daughter.’
                The look that he cast on Amy was worth seeing, and then, with a smile, he
                    answered,—
                ‘I am glad you don't say it in your own person.’
                ‘It is very bold and presumptuous in me to say anything at all in papa's
                    absence,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone, smiling; ‘but I am sure he will think in the
                    same way, that things ought to remain as they are, and that it is our duty not
                    to allow you to be, or to feel otherwise than entirely at liberty.’
                ‘I dare say it may be right in you,’ said Guy, grudgingly. ‘However, I must not
                    complain. It is too much that you should not reject me altogether.’
                To all three that space was as bright a gleam of sunshine as ever embellished
                    life, so short as to be free from a single care, a perfectly serenely happy
                    present, the more joyous from having been preceded by vexations, each of the two
                    young things learning that there was love where it was most precious. Guy
                    especially, isolated and lonely as he stood in life, with his fear and mistrust
                    of himself, was now not only allowed to love, and assured beyond his hopes that
                    Amy returned his affection, but found himself thus welcomed by the mother, and
                    gathered into the family where his warm feelings had taken up their abode, while he believed himself regarded only as a
                    guest and a stranger.
                They talked on, with happy silences between, Guy standing all the time with his
                    branch of roses in his hand, and Amy looking up to him, and trying to realize
                    it, and to understand why she was so very, very happy.
                No one thought of time till Charlotte rushed in like a whirlwind, crying,—
                ‘Oh, here you are! We could not think what had become of you. There has Deloraine
                    been at the door these ten minutes, and Charlie sent me to find you, for he says
                    if you are too late for Mrs. Henley's dinner, she will write such an account of
                    you to Philip as you will never get over.’
                Very little of this was heard, there was only the instinctive consternation of
                    being too late. They started up, Guy threw down his roses, caught Amy's hand and
                    pressed it, while she bent down her head, hiding the renewed blush; he dashed
                    out of the room, and up to his own, while Mrs. Edmonstone and Charlotte hurried
                    down. In another second, he was back again, and once more Amy felt the pressure
                    of his hand on hers,—
                ‘Good-bye!’ he said; and she whispered another ‘Good-bye!’ the only words she had
                    spoken.
                One moment more he lingered,—
                ‘My Verena!’ said he; but the hurrying sounds in the hall warned him,—he sprang
                    down to the drawing-room. Even Charles was on the alert, standing, leaning
                    against the table, and looking eager; but Guy had not time to let him speak, he
                    only shook hands, and wished good-bye, with a sort of vehement agitated
                    cordiality, concealed by his haste.
                ‘Where's Amy?’ cried Charlotte. ‘Amy! Is not she coming to wish him
                    good-bye?’
                He said something, of which ‘up-stairs’ was the only audible word; held Mrs.
                    Edmonstone's hand fast, while she said, in a low voice,—‘You shall hear from papa to-morrow,’ then sprung on his horse,
                    and looked up. Amy was at the window, he saw her head bending forward, under its
                    veil of curls, in the midst of the roses round the lattice; their eyes met once
                    more, he gave one beamy smile, then rode off at full speed, with Bustle racing
                    after him, while Amy threw herself on her knees by her bed, and with hands
                    clasped over her face, prayed that she might be thankful enough, and never be
                    unworthy of him.
                Every one wanted to get rid of every one else except Mrs. Edmonstone; for all but
                    Charlotte guessed at the state of the case, and even she perceived that
                    something was going on. Lady Eveleen was in a state of great curiosity; but she
                    had mercy, she knew that they must tell each other before it came to her turn,
                    and very good-naturedly she invited Charlotte to come into the garden with her,
                    and kept her out of the way by a full account of her last fancy ball, given with
                    so much spirit and humour that Charlotte could not help attending.
                Charles and Laura gained little by this kind manœuvre, for their mother was gone
                    up again to Amy, and they could only make a few conjectures. Charles nursed his
                    right hand, and asked Laura how hers felt? She looked up from her work, to which
                    she had begun to apply herself diligently, and gazed at him inquiringly, as if
                    to see whether he intended anything.
                ‘For my part,’ he added, ‘I certainly thought he meant to carry off the hands of
                    some of the family.’
                ‘I suppose we shall soon hear it explained,’ said Laura, quietly.
                ‘Soon! If I had an many available 1egs as you, would I wait for other people's
                    soon?’
                ‘I should think she had rather be left to mamma,’ said Laura, going on with her
                    work.
                ‘Then you do think there is something in it?’ said Charles, peering up in her
                    face; but he saw he was teazing her, recollected that she had long seemed out of
                    spirits, and forbore to say any more. He was,
                    however, too impatient to remain longer quiet, and presently Laura saw him
                    adjusting his crutches.
                ‘O Charlie! I am sure it will only be troublesome.’
                ‘I am going to my own room,’ said Charles, hopping off. ‘I presume you don't wish
                    to forbid that.’
                His room had a door into the dressing-room, so that it was an excellent place for
                    discovering all from which they did not wish to exclude him, and he did not
                    believe he should be unwelcome; for though he might pretend it was all fun and
                    curiosity, he heartily loved his little Amy.
                The tap of his crutches, and the slow motion with which he raised himself from
                    step to step, was heard, and Amy, who was leaning against her mother, started
                    up, exclaiming,—
                ‘O mamma, here comes Charlie! May I tell him? I am sure I can't meet him
                    without.’
                ‘I suspect he has guessed it already,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone, going to open the
                    door, just as he reached the head of the stairs, and then leaving them.
                ‘Well, Amy,’ said he, looking full at her carnation cheeks, ‘are you prepared to
                    see me turn lead-coloured, and fall into convulsions, like the sister with the
                    spine complaint?’
                ‘O Charlie! You know it. But how?’
                Amy was helping him to the sofa, laid him down, and sat by him on the old
                    footstool; he put his arm round her neck, and she rested her head on his
                    shoulder.
                ‘Well, Amy, I give you joy, my small woman,’ said he, talking the more nonsense
                    because of the fullness in his throat; ‘and I hope you give me credit for
                    amazing self-denial in so doing.’
                ‘O Charlie—dear Charlie!’ and she kissed him, she could not blush more, poor
                    little thing, for she had already reached her utmost capability of redness,—‘it
                    is no such thing.’
                ‘No such thing? What has turned you into a turkey-cock all at once or what made
                    him nearly squeeze off my unfortunate fingers?
                    No such thing, indeed!’
                ‘I mean—I mean, it is not that. We are so very young, and I am so
                    silly.’
                ‘Is that his reason?’
                ‘You must make me so much better and wiser! Oh, if I could but be good
                    enough!’
                For that matter, I don't think any one else would be good enough to take care of
                    such a silly little thing. But what is the that, that it is, or is
                    not?’
                ‘Nothing now, only when we are older. At least, you know papa has not heard
                    it.’
                ‘Provided my father gives his consent, as the Irish young lady added to all her
                    responses through the marriage service. But tell me all—all you like, I
                    mean,—for you will have lovers' secrets now, Amy.’
                Mrs. Edmonstone had, meantime, gone down to Laura. Poor Laura, as soon as her
                    brother had left the room, she allowed the fixed composure of her face to relax
                    into a restless, harassed, almost miserable expression, and walked up and down
                    with agitated steps.
                ‘O wealth, wealth!’—her lips formed the words, without uttering them—‘what cruel
                    differences it makes! All smooth here! Young, not to be trusted, with strange
                    reserves, discreditable connexions,—that family,—that fearful temper, showing
                    itself even to her! All will be overlooked! Papa will be delighted, I know he
                    will! And how is it with us? Proved, noble, superior, owned as such by all, as
                    Philip is, yet, for that want of hateful money, he would be spurned. And for
                    this—for this—the love that has grown up with our lives must be crushed down and
                    hidden—our life is wearing out in wearying self-watching!’
                The lock of the door turned, and Laura had resumed her ordinary expression before
                    it opened, and her mother came in; but there was anything but calmness beneath,
                    for the pang of self-reproach had come,— ‘Was
                    it thus that she prepared to hear these tidings of her sister?’
                ‘Well, Laura,’ began Mrs. Edmonstone, with the eager smile of one bringing
                    delightful news, and sure of sympathy.
                ‘It is so, then?’ said Laura. ‘Dear, dear, little Amy! I hope—’ and her eyes
                    filled with tears; but she had learnt to dread any outbreak of feeling,
                    conquered it in a minute, and said,—
                ‘What has happened? How does it stand?’
                ‘It stands, at least as far as I can say without papa, as the dear Guy very
                    rightly and wisely wished it to stand. There is no positive engagement, they are
                    both too young; but he thought it was not right to remain here without letting
                    us know his sentiments towards her.’
                A pang shot through Laura; but it was but for a moment. Guy might doubt where
                    Philip need never do so. Her mother went on,—
                ‘Their frankness and confidence are most beautiful. We know dear little Amy could
                    not help it; but there was something very sweet, very noble, in his way of
                    telling all.’
                Another pang for Laura. But no! it was only poverty that was to blame. Philip
                    would speak as plainly if his prospects were as fair.
                ‘Oh, I hope it will do well,’ said she.
                ‘It must,—it will!’ cried Mrs. Edmonstone, giving way to her joyful enthusiasm of
                    affection. ‘It is nonsense to doubt, knowing him as we do. There is not a man in
                    the world with whom I could be so happy to trust her.’
                Laura could not hear Guy set above all men in the world, and she remembered
                    Philip's warning to her, two years ago.
                ‘There is much that is very good and very delightful about him,’ she said,
                    hesitatingly.
                ‘You are thinking of the Morville temper,’ said her mother; ‘but I am not afraid of it. A naturally hot
                    temper, controlled like his by strong religious principle, is far safer than a
                    cool easy one, without the principle.’
                Laura thought this going too far, but she felt some compensation due to Guy, and
                    acknowledged how strongly he was actuated by principle. However—and it was well
                    for her—they could not talk long, for Eveleen and Charlotte were approaching,
                    and she hastily asked what was to be done about telling Eva, who could not fail
                    to guess something.
                ‘We must tell her, and make her promise absolute secrecy,’ said Mrs. Edmonstone.
                    ‘I will speak to her myself; but I must wait till I have seen papa. There is no
                    doubt of what he will say, but we have been taking quite liberties enough in his
                    absence.’
                Laura did not see her sister till luncheon, when Amy came down, with a glow on
                    her cheeks that made her so much prettier than usual, that Charles wished Guy
                    could have seen her. She said little, and ran up again as soon as she could.
                    Laura followed her; and the two sisters threw their arms fondly round each
                    other, and kissed repeatedly.
                ‘Mamma has told you?’ said Amy. ‘Oh, it has made me so very happy; and every one
                    is so kind.’
                ‘Dear, dear Amy!’
                ‘I'm only afraid—’
                ‘He has begun so well—’
                ‘Oh, nonsense! You cannot think I could be so foolish as to be afraid for him! Oh
                    no! But if he should take me for more than I am worth. O Laura, Laura! What
                    shall I do to be as good and sensible as you? I must not be silly little Amy any
                    more.’
                ‘Perhaps he likes you best as you are?’
                ‘I don't mean cleverness: I can't help that,—and he knows how stupid I am,—but I
                    am afraid he thinks there is more worth in me. Don't you know, he has a sort of
                    sunshine in his eyes and mind, that makes all he cares about seem to him
                    brighter and better than it really is. I am
                    afraid he is only dressing me up with that sunshine.’
                ‘It must be strange sunshine that you want to make you better and brighter than
                    you are,’ said Laura, kissing her.
                ‘I'll tell you what it is,’ said Amy folding her hands, and standing with her
                    face raised, ‘it wont do now, as you told me once, to have no bones in my
                    character. I must learn to be steady and strong, if I can; for if this is to be,
                    he will depend on me, I don't mean, to advise him, for he knows better than
                    anybody; but to be—you know what—if vexation, or trouble was to come! And,
                    Laura, think if he was to depend on me, and I was to fail! Oh, do help me to
                    have firmness and self-command, like you!’
                ‘It was a long time ago that we talked of your wanting bones.’
                ‘Yes, before he came; but I never forget it.’
                Laura was obliged to go out with Eveleen. All went their different ways; and Amy
                    had the garden to herself to cool her cheeks in. But this was a vain operation,
                    for a fresh access of burning was brought on while Laura was helping her to
                    dress for dinner, when her father's quick step sounded in the passage. He
                    knocked at her door, and as she opened it, he kissed her on each cheek; and
                    throwing his arm round her, exclaimed,—
                ‘Well, Miss Amy, you have made a fine morning's work of it! A pretty thing, for
                    young ladies to be accepting offers while papa is out of the way. Eh,
                    Laura?’
                Amy knew this was a manifestation of extreme delight; but it was not very
                    pleasant to Laura.
                ‘So you have made a conquest!’ proceeded Mr. Edmonstone; ‘and I heartily wish you
                    joy of it, my dear. He is as amiable and good-natured a youth as I would wish to
                    see; and I should say the same if he had not a shilling in the world.’
                Laura's heart bounded; but she knew, whatever her father might fancy, the reality would be very different if Guy were as poor
                    as Philip.
                ‘I shall write to him this very evening,’ he continued, ‘and tell him, if he has
                    the bad taste to like such a silly little white thing, I am not the man to stand
                    in his way. Eh, Amy? Shall I tell him so?’
                ‘Tell him what you please, dear papa.’
                ‘Eh? What I please? Suppose I say we can't spare our little one, and he may go
                    about his business?’
                ‘I'm not afraid of you, papa.’
                ‘Come, she's a good little thing—sha'n't be teazed. Eh, Laura? what do you think
                    of it, our beauty, to see your younger sister impertinent enough to set up a
                    lover, while your pink cheeks are left in the lurch?’
                Laura not being wont to make playful repartees, her silence passed unnoticed. Her
                    feelings were mixed; but perhaps the predominant one was satisfaction that it
                    was not for her pink cheeks that she was valued.
                It had occurred to Mrs. Edmonstone that it was a curious thing, after her attempt
                    at scheming for Eveleen, to have to announce to her that Guy was attached to her
                    own daughter; nay, after the willingness Eveleen had manifested to be gratified
                    with any attention Guy showed her, it seemed doubtful for a moment whether the
                    intelligence would be pleasing to her. However, Eveleen was just the girl to
                    like men better than women, and never to be so happy as when on the verge of
                    flirting; it would probably have been the same with any other youth that came in
                    her way, and Guy might fully be acquitted of doing more than paying her the
                    civilities which were requisite from him to any young lady visitor. He had, two
                    years ago, when a mere boy, idled, laughed, and made fun with her, but his fear
                    of trifling away his time had made him draw back, before he had involved himself
                    in what might have led to anything further; and during the present visit, no one
                    could doubt that he was preoccupied with Amy. At any rate, it was right that
                        Eveleen should know the truth, in
                    confidence, if only to prevent her from talking of any surmises she might
                    have.
                Mrs. Edmonstone was set at ease in a moment. Eveleen was enchanted, danced round
                    and round the room, declared they would be the most charming couple in the
                    world; she had seen it all along; she was so delighted they had come to an
                    understanding at last, poor things, they were so miserable all last week; and
                    she must take credit to herself for having done it all. Was not her aunt very
                    much obliged to her?
                ‘My dear Eva,’ exclaimed Mrs. Edmonstone, into whose mind the notion never
                    entered that any one could boast of such a proceeding as hers last night; but
                    the truth was that Eveleen, feeling slightly culpable, was delighted that all
                    had turned out so well, and resolved to carry it off with a high hand.
                ‘To be sure! Poor little Amy! when she looked ready to sink into the earth, she
                    little knew her obligations to me! Was not it the cleverest thing in the world?
                    It was just the touch they wanted—the very thing!’
                ‘My dear, I am glad I know that you are sometimes given to talking nonsense,’
                    said Mrs. Edmonstone, laughing.
                ‘And you wont believe me serious? You wont be grateful to me for my lucky hit?’
                    said Eveleen, looking comically injured. ‘Oh auntie, that is very hard, when I
                    shall believe to my dying day that I did it!’
                ‘Why, Eva, if I thought it had been done by design, I should find it very hard to
                    forgive you for it at all, rather hard even to accept Guy, so you had better not
                    try to disturb my belief that it was only that spirit of mischief that makes you
                    now and then a little mad.’
                ‘Oh dear! what a desperate scolding you must have given poor little Charlotte!’
                    exclaimed Eveleen, quaintly.
                Mrs. Edmonstone could not help laughing as she confessed that she had altogether
                    forgotten Charlotte.
                
                ‘Then you will. You'll go on forgetting her,’ cried Eveleen. ‘She only did what
                    she was told, and did not know the malice of it. There, you're relenting!
                    There's a good aunt! And now, if you wont be grateful, as any other mamma in the
                    world would have been, and as I calculated on, when I pretended to have been a
                    prudent, designing woman, instead of a wild mischievous monkey at least you'll
                    forgive me enough to invite me to the wedding. Oh! what a beauty of a wedding it
                    will be! I'd come from Kilcoran all the way on my bare knees to see it. And
                    you'll let me be bridesmaid, and have a ball after it?’
                ‘There is no saying what I may do, if you'll only be a good girl, and hold your
                    tongue. I don't want to prevent your telling anything to your mamma, of course,
                    but pray don't let it go any further. Don't let Maurice hear it, I have especial
                    reasons for wishing it should not be known. You know it is not even an
                    engagement, and nothing must be done which can make Guy feel in the least
                    bound.’
                Eveleen promised, and Mrs. Edmonstone knew that she had sense and proper feeling
                    enough for her promise to deserve trust.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER XIV.
                
                    
                        
                            
                                For falsehood now doth flow,
                                And subject faith doth ebbe,
                                Which would not be, if reason ruled,
                                Or wisdom weav'd the webbe.
                            
                            
                                The daughter of debate,
                                That eke discord doth sowe,
                                Shal reape no gaine where former rule
                                Hath taught stil peace to growe.
                            
                        
                        —QUEEN ELIZABETH.
                    
                
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    ‘ATHENÆUM TERRACE, ST MILDRED'S, August
                                        4th.
                                
                                ‘MY DEAR PHILIP,—Thank you for returning the
                                    books, which were brought safely by Sir Guy. I am sorry you do
                                    not agree in my estimate of them. I should have thought your
                                    strong sense would have made you perceive that reasoning upon
                                    fact, and granting nothing without tangible proof, were the best
                                    remedy for a dreamy romantic tendency to the weakness and
                                    credulity which are in the present day termed poetry and faith.
                                    It is curious to observe how these vague theories reduce
                                    themselves to the absurd when brought into practice. There are
                                    two Miss Wellwoods here, daughters of that unfortunate man who
                                    fell in a duel with old Sir Guy Morville, who seem to make it
                                    their business to become the general subject of animadversion,
                                    taking pauper children into their house, where they educate them
                                    in a way to unfit them for their station, and teach them to
                                    observe a sort of monastic rule, preaching the poor people in the hospital to death,
                                    visiting the poor at all sorts of strange hours. Dr Henley
                                    actually found one of them, at twelve o'clock at night, in a
                                    miserable lodging-house, filled with the worst description of
                                    inmates. Quite young women, too, and with no mother or elder
                                    person to direct them; but it is the fashion among the
                                    attendants at the new chapel to admire them. This subject has
                                    diverted me from what I intended to say with respect to the
                                    young baronet. Your description agrees with all I have hitherto
                                    seen, though I own I expected a Redclyffe Morville to have more
                                    of the héros de roman, or
                                    rather of the grand tragic cast of figure, as, if I remember
                                    right, was the case with this youth's father, a much finer and
                                    handsomer young man. Sir Guy is certainly gentlemanlike, and has
                                    that sort of agreeability which depends on high animal spirits.
                                    I should think him clever, but superficial, and with his mania
                                    for music, he can hardly fail to be merely an accomplished man.
                                    In spite of all you said of the Redclyffe temper, I was hardly
                                    prepared to find it so ready to flash forth on the most
                                    inexplicable provocations. It is like walking on a volcano. I
                                    have seen him two or three times draw himself up, bite his lip,
                                    and answer with an effort and a sharpness that shows how thin a
                                    crust covers the burning lava; but I acknowledge that he has
                                    been very civil and attentive, and speaks most properly of what
                                    he owes to you. I only hope he will not be hurt by the
                                    possession of so large a property so early in life, and I have
                                    an idea that our good aunt at Hollywell has done a good deal to
                                    raise his opinion of himself. We shall, of course, show him
                                    every civility in our power, and give him the advantage of
                                    intellectual society at our house. His letters are directed to
                                    this place, as you know South Moor Farm is out of the cognizance
                                    of the post. They seem to keep up a brisk correspondence with
                                    him from Hollywell. Few 
                                        guardian's
                                        guardians'
                                     letters are, I should guess, honoured with such
                                    deepening colour as his while
                                    reading one from my uncle. He tells me he has been calling at
                                    Stylehurst; it is a pity, for his sake, that Colonel Harewood is
                                    at home, for the society of those sons is by no means advisable
                                    for him. I can hardly expect to offer him what is likely to be
                                    as agreeable to him as the conversation and amusements of Edward
                                    and Tom Harewood, who are sure to be at home for the St.
                                    Mildred's races. I hear Tom has been getting into fresh scrapes
                                    at Cambridge.
                                
                                    ‘Your affectionate sister,
                                    ‘MARGARET HENLEY.’
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    ‘ATHENÆUM STREET. ST. MILDRED'S, Sept. 6th.
                                
                                ‘MY DEAR PHILIP,—No one can have a greater dislike than myself to
                                    what is called mischief-making; therefore I leave it entirely to
                                    you to make what use you please of the following facts, which
                                    have fallen under my notice. Sir Guy Morville has been several
                                    times at St. Mildred's, in company with Tom Harewood, and more
                                    than once alone with some strange, questionable-looking people;
                                    and not many days ago, my maid met him coming out of a house in
                                    one of the low streets, which it is hard to assign a motive for
                                    his visiting. This, however, might be accident, and I should
                                    never have thought of mentioning it, but for a circumstance that
                                    occurred this morning. I had occasion to visit Grey's Bank, and
                                    while waiting in conversation with Mr. Grey, a person came in
                                    whom I knew to be a notorious gambler, and offered a cheque to
                                    be changed. As it lay on the counter, my eye was caught by the
                                    signature. It was my uncle's. I looked again, and could not be
                                    mistaken. It was a draft for £3O on Drummond, dated the 12th of
                                    August, to Sir Guy Morville, signed C. Edmonstone, and endorsed
                                    in Sir Guy's own writing, with the name of John White. In order
                                    that I might be certain that I was doing the poor young man no
                                    injustice, I outstaid the man, and asked who he was, when Mr.
                                    Grey confirmed me in my belief
                                    that it was one Jack White, a jockeying sort of man, who attends
                                    all the races in the country, and makes his livelihood by
                                    betting and gambling. And now, my dear brother, make what use of
                                    this fact you think fit, though I fear there is little hope of
                                    rescuing the poor youth from the fatal habits which are
                                    hereditary in his family, and must be strong indeed not to have
                                    been eradicated by such careful training as you say he has
                                    received. I leave it entirely to you, trusting in your excellent
                                    judgment, and only hoping you will not bring my name forward.
                                    Grieving much at having to be the first to communicate such
                                    unpleasant tidings, which will occasion so much vexation at
                                    Hollywell.’
                                
                                    ‘Your affectionate sister,
                                    ‘MARGARET HENLEY.’
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                Captain Morville was alone when he received the latter of these letters. At
                    first, a look divided between irony and melancholy passed over his face, as he
                    read his sister's preface and her hearsay evidence, but, as he went farther, his
                    upper lip curled, and a sudden gleam, as of exultation in a verified prophecy,
                    lighted his eye, shading off quickly, however, and giving place to an iron
                    expression of rigidity and sternness, the compressed mouth, coldly-fixed eye,
                    and sedate brow composed into a grave severity that might have served for an
                    impersonation of stern justice. He looked through the letter a second time,
                    folded it up, put it in his pocket, and went about his usual affairs; but the
                    expression did not leave his face all day; and the next morning he took a
                    day-ticket by the railway to Broadstone, where, as it was the day of the petty
                    sessions, he had little doubt of meeting Mr. Edmonstone. Accordingly, he had not
                    walked far down the High Street, before he saw his uncle standing on the step of
                    the post-office, opening a letter he had just received.
                ‘Ha! Philip, what brings you here? The very man I wanted. Coming to
                    Hollywell?’
                ‘No, thank you, I go back this evening,’ said Philip; and, as he spoke, he saw that the letter which Mr.
                    Edmonstone held, and twisted with a hasty, nervous movement, was in Guy's
                    writing.
                ‘Well, I am glad you are here, at any rate. Here is the most extraordinary thing!
                    What possesses the boy I cannot guess. Here's Guy writing to me for — What do
                    you think? To send him a thousand pounds!’
                ‘Hem!’ said Philip in an expressive tone; yet, as if he was not very much amazed;
                    ‘no explanation, I suppose?’
                ‘No, none at all. Here, see what he says, yourself. No! Yes, you may,’ added Mr.
                    Edmonstone, with a rapid glance at the end of the letter,—a movement, first to
                    retain it, and then following his first impulse, with an unintelligible
                    murmuring.
                Philip read,—
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    ‘SOUTH MOOR, SEPT. 7th.
                                
                                ‘MY DEAR MR. EDMONSTONE,—You will be surprised at the request I
                                    have to make you, after my resolution not to exceed my
                                    allowance. However, this is not for my own expenses, and it will
                                    not occur again. I should be much obliged to you to let me have
                                    £1000, in what manner you please, only I should be glad if it
                                    were soon. I am sorry I am not at liberty to tell you what I
                                    want it for, but I trust to your kindness. Tell Charlie I will
                                    write to him in a day or two; but, between our work, and walking
                                    to St. Mildred's for the letters, which we cannot help doing
                                    every day, the time for writing is short. Another month,
                                    however, and what a holiday it will be! Tell Amy she ought to be
                                    here to see the purple of the hills in the early morning; it
                                    almost makes up for having no sea. The races have been making
                                    St. Mildred's very gay; indeed, we laugh at Wellwood for having
                                    brought us here, by way of a quiet place. I never was in the way
                                    of so much dissipation in my life.
                                
                                    ‘Yours very affectionately,
                                    ‘GUY MORVILLE.’
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                ‘Well, what do you think of it? What would you do in my place? Eh, Philip? What
                    can he want of it, eh?’ said Mr. Edmonstone, tormenting his riding-whip, and
                    looking up to study his nephew's face, which, with stern gravity in every
                    feature, was bent over the letter, as if to weigh every line. ‘Eh, Philip?’
                    repeated Mr. Edmonstone, several times, without obtaining an answer.
                ‘This is no place for discussion,’ at last said Philip, deliberately returning
                    the letter. ‘Come into the reading-room. We shall find no one there at this
                    hour. Here we are!’
                ‘Well—well—well,’ began Mr. Edmonstone, fretted by his coolness to the extreme of
                    impatience, ‘what do you think of it? He can't be after any mischief; 'tis not
                    in the boy; when—when he is all but— Pooh! what am I saying? Well, what do you
                    think?’
                ‘I am afraid it confirms but too strongly a report which I received
                    yesterday.’
                ‘From your sister? Does she know anything about it?’
                ‘Yes, from my sister. But I was very unwilling to mention it, because she
                    particularly requests that her name may not be used. I came here to see whether
                    you had heard of Guy lately, so as to judge whether it was needful to speak of
                    it. This convinces me; but I must beg, in the first instance, that you will not
                    mention her, not even to my aunt.’
                ‘Well, yes; very well. I promise. Only let me hear.’
                ‘Young Harewood has, I fear, led him into bad company. There can now be no doubt
                    that he has been gambling.’
                Philip was not prepared for the effect of these words. His uncle started up,
                    exclaiming, ‘Gambling! Impossible! Some confounded slander! I don't believe one
                    word of it! I wont hear such things said of him,’ he repeated, stammering with
                    passion, and walking violently about the room. This did not last long; there
                        was something in the unmoved way, in which
                    Philip waited till he had patience to listen, which gradually mastered him; his
                    angry manner subsided, and, sitting down, he continued the argument, in a
                    would-be-composed voice.
                ‘It is utterly impossible! Remember, he thinks himself bound not so much as to
                    touch a billiard cue.’
                ‘I could have thought it impossible, but for what I have seen of the way in which
                    promises are eluded by persons too strictly bound,’ said Philip. ‘The moral
                    force of principle is the only efficient pledge.’
                ‘Principle! I should like to see who has better principles than Guy!’ cried Mr.
                    Edmonstone. ‘You have said so yourself, fifty times, and your aunt has said so,
                    and Charles. I could as soon suspect myself.’ He was growing vehement, but again
                    Philip's imperturbability repressed his violence, and he asked, ‘Well, what
                    evidence have you? Mind, I am not going to believe it without the strongest. I
                    don't know that I would believe my own eyes against him.’
                ‘It is very sad to find such confidence misplaced,’ said Philip. ‘Most sincerely
                    do I wish this could be proved to be a mistake; but this extraordinary request
                    corroborates my sister's letter too fully.’
                ‘Let me hear,’ said Mr. Edmonstone feebly.
                Philip produced his letter, without reading the whole of it; for he could not
                    bear the appearance of gossip and prying, and would not expose his sister; so he
                    pieced it out with his own words, and made it sound far less discreditable to
                    her. It was quite enough for Mr. Edmonstone; the accuracy of the details seemed
                    to strike him dumb; and there was a long silence, which he broke by saying, with
                    a deep sigh,—
                ‘Who could have thought it? Poor little Amy!’
                ‘Amy?’ exclaimed Philip.
                ‘Why, ay. I did not mean to have said anything of it, I am sure; but they did it
                    among them,’ said Mr. Edmonstone, growing ashamed, under Philip's eye, as of a
                    dreadful piece of imprudence. ‘I was out of the way at the time, but I could not refuse my consent, you
                    know, as things stood then.’
                ‘Do you mean to say that Amy is engaged to him?’
                ‘Why, no,—not exactly engaged, only on trial, you understand, to see if he will
                    be steady. I was at Broadstone; 'twas mamma settled it all. Poor little thing,
                    she is very much in love with him, I do believe; but there's an end of
                    everything now.’
                ‘It is very fortunate this has been discovered in time,’ said Philip. ‘Instead of
                    pitying her, I should rejoice in her escape.’
                ‘Yes,’ said Mr. Edmonstone, ruefully. ‘Who could have thought it?’
                ‘I am afraid the mischief is of long standing,’ proceeded Philip, resolved, since
                    he saw his uncle so grieved, to press him strongly, thinking that to save Amy
                    from such a marriage was an additional motive. ‘He could hardly have arrived at
                    losing as much as a thousand pounds, all at once, in this month at St.
                    Mildred's. Depend upon it, that painful as it may be at present, there is great
                    reason, on her account, to rejoice in the discovery. You say he has never before
                    applied, to you for money?’
                ‘Not a farthing beyond his allowance, except this unlucky thirty pounds, for his
                    additional expense of the tutor and the lodging.’
                ‘You remember, however, that he has always seemed short of money, never appeared
                    able to afford himself any little extra expense. You have noticed it, I know.
                    You remember, too, how unsatisfactory his reserve about his proceedings in
                    London has been, and how he has persisted in delaying there, in spite of all
                    warnings. The work, no doubt, began there, under the guidance of his uncle; and
                    now the St. Mildred's races and Tom Harewood have continued it.’
                ‘I wish he had never set foot in the place!’
                ‘Nay; for Amy's sake, the exposure is an advantage, if not for his own. The
                    course must have been long since begun; but he contrived to avoid what could lead to inquiry, till he has at length
                    involved himself in some desperate scrape. You see, he especially desires to
                    have the money soon, and he never even attempts to say you would
                    approve of the object.
                ‘Yes; he has the grace not to say that.’
                ‘Altogether, it is worse than I could have thought possible,’ said Philip. ‘I
                    could have believed him unstable and thoughtless; but the concealment, and the
                    attempting to gain poor Amy's affections in the midst of such a course—’
                ‘Ay, ay!’ cried Mr. Edmonstone, now fully provoked; ‘there is the monstrous part.
                    He thought I was going to give up my poor little girl to a gambler, did he? but
                    he shall soon see what I think of him,—riches, Redclyffe, title, and all!’
                ‘I knew that would be your feeling.’
                ‘Feel! Yes; and he shall feel it, too. So, Sir Guy, you thought you had an old
                    fool of a guardian, did you, whom you could blind as you pleased? but you shall
                    soon see the difference!’
                ‘Better begin cautiously,’ suggested Philip. ‘Remember his unfortunate temper,
                    and write coolly.’
                ‘Coolly? You may talk of coolness; but 'tis enough to make one's blood boil to be
                    served in such a way. With the face to be sending her messages in the very same
                    letter! That is a pass beyond me, to stand coolly to see my daughter so
                    treated.’
                ‘I would only give him the opportunity of saying what he can for himself. He may
                    have some explanation.’
                ‘I'll admit of no explanation! Passing himself off for steadiness itself; daring
                    to think of my daughter, and all the time going on in this fashion! I hate
                    underhand ways! I'll have no explanation. He may give up all thoughts of her.
                    I'll write and tell him so before I'm a day older; nay, before I stir from this
                    room. My little Amy, indeed!’
                Philip put no obstacles in the way of this proposal, for he knew that his uncle's
                    displeasure, though hot at first, was apt to
                    evaporate in exclamations; and he thought it likely that his good nature, his
                    partiality for his ward, his dislike to causing pain to his daughter, and, above
                    all, his wife's blind confidence in Guy, would, when once at home, so overpower
                    his present indignation as to prevent the salutary strictness which was the only
                    hope of reclaiming Guy. Beside, a letter written under Philip's inspection was
                    likely to be more guarded, as well as more forcible, than an unassisted
                    composition of his own, as was, indeed, pretty well proved by the commencement
                    of his first attempt.
                ‘My dear Guy,—I am more surprised than I could have expected at your
                    application.’
                Philip read this aloud, so as to mark its absurdity, and he began again.
                ‘I am greatly astonished, as well as concerned, at your application, which
                    confirms the unpleasant reports—’
                ‘Why say anything of reports?’ said Philip. ‘Reports are nothing. A man is not
                    forced to defend himself from reports.’
                ‘Yes,—hum—ha,—the accounts I have received. No. You say there is not to be a word
                    of Mrs. Henley.’
                ‘Not a word that can lead her to be suspected.’
                ‘Confirms—confirms—’ sighed Mr. Edmonstone.
                ‘Don't write as if you went on hearsay evidence. Speak of proofs—irrefragable
                    proofs—and then you convict him at once, without power of eluding you.’
                So Mr. Edmonstone proceeded to write, that the application confirmed the
                    irrefragable proofs; then laughed at himself, and helplessly begged Philip to
                    give him a start. It now stood thus:—
                ‘Your letter of this morning has caused me more concern than surprise, as it
                    unhappily only adds confirmation to the intelligence already in my possession;
                    that either from want of resolution to withstand the seductions of designing
                    persons, or by the impetuosity and instability of your own character, you
                        have been led into the ruinous and
                    degrading practice of gambling; and that from hence proceed the difficulties
                    that occasion your application to me for money. I am deeply grieved at thus
                    finding that neither the principles which have hitherto seemed to guide you, nor
                    the pledges which you used to hold sacred, nor, I may add, the feelings you have
                    so recently expressed towards a member of my family, have been sufficient to
                    preserve you from yielding to a temptation which could never be presented to the
                    mind of any one whose time was properly occupied in the business of his
                    education.’
                ‘Is that all I am to say about her,’ exclaimed Mr. Edmonstone, ‘after the
                    atrocious way the fellow has treated her in?’
                ‘Since it is, happily, no engagement, I cannot see how you can, with propriety,
                    assume that it is one, by speaking of breaking it off. Besides, give him no
                    ground for complaint, or he will take refuge in believing himself ill-used. Ask
                    him if he can disprove it, and when he cannot, it will be time enough to act
                    further. But wait—wait, sir,’ as the pen was moving over the paper, impatient to
                    dash forward. ‘You have not told him yet of what you accuse him.’
                Philip meditated a few moments, then produced another sentence.
                ‘I have no means of judging how long you have been following this unhappy course;
                    I had rather believe it is of recent adoption, but I do not know how to
                    reconcile this idea with the magnitude of your demand, unless your downward
                    progress has been more rapid than usual in such beginnings. It would, I fear, be
                    quite vain for me to urge upon you all the arguments and reasons that ought to
                    have been present to your mind, and prevented you from taking the first fatal
                    step. I can only entreat you to pause, and consider the ruin and degradation to
                    which this hateful vice almost invariably conducts its victims, and consistently
                    with my duty as your guardian, everything in my power shall be done to extricate
                    you from the embarrassments in which you have
                    involved yourself. But, in the first place, I make it a point that you treat me
                    with perfect confidence, and make a full, unequivocal statement of your
                    proceedings; above all, that you explain the circumstances, occasioning your
                    request for this large sum. Remember, I say, complete candour on your part will
                    afford the only means of rescuing you from difficulties, or of in any degree
                    restoring you to my good opinion.’
                So far the letter had proceeded slowly, for Philip was careful and deliberate in
                    composition; and while he was weighing his words, Mr. Edmonstone rushed on with
                    something unfit to stand, so as to have to begin over again. At last, the town
                    clock struck five; Philip started, declaring that if he was not at the station
                    in five minutes, he should lose the train; engaged to come to Hollywell on the
                    day an answer might be expected, and hastened away, satisfied by having seen two
                    sheets nearly filled, and having said there was nothing more but to sign, seal,
                    and send it.
                Mr. Edmonstone had, however, a page of note-paper more, and it was with a
                    sensation of relief that he wrote,—
                ‘I wish, from the bottom of my heart, that you could clear yourself. If a dozen
                    men had sworn it till they were black in the face, I would not have believed it
                    of you that you could serve us in such a manner, after the way you have been
                    treated at home, and to dare to think of my daughter with such things on your
                    mind. I could never have believed it, but for the proofs Philip has brought; and
                    I am sure he is as sorry as myself. Only tell the whole truth, and I will do my
                    best to get you out of the scrape. Though all else must be at an end between us,
                    I am your guardian still, and I will not be harsh with you.’
                He posted his letter, climbed up his tall horse, and rode home, rather
                    heavy-hearted; but his wrath burning out as he left Broadstone behind him. He
                    saw his little Amy gay and lively, and could not bear to sadden her; so he persuaded himself that there was no need
                    to mention the suspicions till he had heard what Guy had to say for himself.
                    Accordingly, he told no one but his wife; and she, who thought Guy as unlikely
                    to gamble as Amy herself, had not the least doubt that he would be able to clear
                    himself, and agreed that it was much better to keep silence for the present.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER XV.
                
                    
                        
                            
                                'Tis not unknown to you, Antonio,
                                How much I have disabled mine estate,
                                By something showing a more swelling port
                                Than my faint means would grant continuance.
                            
                        
                        MERCHANT OF VENICE.
                    
                
                ST. MILDRED'S was a fashionable summer resort, which the
                    virtues of a mineral spring, and the reputation of Dr. Henley, had contributed
                    to raise to a high degree of prosperity. It stood at the foot of a magnificent
                    range of beautifully formed hills, where the crescents and villas, white and
                    smart, showed their own insignificance beneath the purple peaks that rose high
                    above them.
                About ten miles distant, across the hills, was Stylehurst, the parish of the late
                    Archdeacon Morville, and the native place of Philip and his sister Margaret. It
                    was an extensive parish, including a wide tract of the hilly country; and in a
                    farm-house in the midst of the moorland, midway between St. Mildred's and the
                    village of Stylehurst, had Mr. Wellwood fixed himself with his three pupils.
                Guy's first visit was of course to Mrs. Henley, and she was, on her side,
                    prepared by her brother to patronize him as Philip would have done in her place.
                    Her patronage was valuable in her own circle; her connexions were good; the
                    Archdeacon's name was greatly respected; she had a handsome and well-regulated
                    establishment, and this, together with talents which, having no family, she had
                    cultivated more than most women have time to do, made her a person of
                    considerable distinction at St. Mildred's. She was, in fact, the leading lady of the place—the manager of
                    the book-club, in the chair at all the charitable committees, and the principal
                    person in society, giving literary parties, with a degree of exclusiveness that
                    made admission to them a privilege.
                She was a very fine woman, handsomer at two-and-thirty than in her early bloom;
                    her height little less than that of her tall brother, and her manner and air had
                    something very distinguished. The first time Guy saw her, he was strongly
                    reminded both of Philip and of Mrs. Edmonstone, but not pleasingly. She seemed
                    to be her aunt, without the softness and motherly affection, coupled with the
                    touch of naïveté that gave Mrs. Edmonstone her
                    freshness, and loveableness; and her likeness to her brother included that
                    decided, self-reliant air, which became him well enough, but which did not sit
                    as appropriately on a woman.
                Guy soon discovered another resemblance—for the old, unaccountable impatience of
                    Philip's conversation, and relief in escaping from it, haunted him before he had
                    been a quarter of an hour in Mrs. Henley's drawing-room. She asked after the
                    Hollywell party; she had not seen her cousins since her marriage, and happily
                    for his feelings, passed over Laura and Amy as if they were nonentities; but
                    they were all too near his heart for him to be able with patience to hear ‘poor
                    Charles's’ temper regretted, and still less the half-sarcastic,
                    half-compassionate tone in which she implied that her aunt spoilt him
                    dreadfully, and showed how cheap she held both Mr. and Mrs. Edmonstone. Two
                    years ago, Guy could not have kept down his irritation; but now he was master of
                    himself sufficiently to give a calm, courteous reply, so conveying his own
                    respect for them, that Mrs. Henley was almost disconcerted.
                Stylehurst had great interest for Guy, both for the sake of Archdeacon Morville's
                    kindness, and as the home which Philip regarded with affection, that seemed the
                    one softening touch in his character. So Guy
                    visited the handsome church, studied the grave-yard, and gathered the traditions
                    of the place from the old sexton's wife, who rejoiced in finding an auditor for
                    her long stories of the good Archdeacon, Miss Fanny, and Mr. Philip. She shook
                    her head, saying times were changed, and ‘Miss Morville that was, never came
                    neist the place.’
                The squire, Colonel Harewood, was an old friend of his grandfather's, and
                    therefore was to be called on. He had never been wise, and had been dissipated
                    chiefly from vacancy of mind; he was now growing old, and led a quieter life,
                    and though Guy did not find him a very entertaining companion, he accepted, his
                    civilities, readily, for his grandfather's sake. When his sons came home, Guy
                    recognized in them the description of men he was wont to shun at Oxford, as much
                    from distaste as from principle; but though he did not absolutely avoid them, he
                    saw little of them, being very busy, and having pleasant companions in his
                    fellow pupils. It was a very merry party at South Moor, and Guy's high spirits
                    made him the life of everything.
                The first time Mr. Wellwood went to call on his cousins at St. Mildred's, the
                    daughters of that officer who had fallen by the hand of old Sir Guy, he began
                    repeating, for the twentieth time, what an excellent fellow Morville was; then
                    said he should not have troubled them with any of his pupils, but Morville would
                    esteem their receiving him as an act of forgiveness, and besides, he wished them
                    to know one whom he valued so highly. Guy thus found himself admitted into an
                    entirely new region. There were two sisters, together in everything. Jane, the
                    younger, was a kind-hearted, commonplace person, who would never have looked
                    beyond the ordinary range of duties and charities; but Elizabeth was one of
                    those who rise up, from time to time, as burning and shining lights. It was not
                    spending a quiet, easy life, making her charities secondary to her comforts, but
                    devoting time, strength, and goods; not merely
                    giving away what she could spare, but actually sharing all with the poor,
                    reserving nothing for the future. She not only taught the young, and visited the
                    distressed, but she gathered orphans into her house, and nursed the sick day and
                    night. Neither the means nor the strength of the two sisters could ever have
                    been supposed equal to what they were known to have achieved. It seemed as if
                    the power grew with the occasion, and as if they had some help which could not
                    fail them. Guy venerated them more and more, and many a long letter about them
                    was written to Mrs. Edmonstone for Amy to read. There is certainly a ‘tyrannous
                    hate’ in the world for unusual goodness, which is a rebuke to it, and there was
                    a strong party against the sisters. At the head of it was Mrs. Henley, who had
                    originally been displeased at their preferring the direction of the clergyman to
                    that of the ladies' committee, though the secret cause of her dislike was,
                    perhaps, that Elizabeth Wellwood was just what Margaret Morville might have
                    been. So she blamed them, not, indeed for their charity, but for slight
                    peculiarities which might well have been lost in the brightness of the works of
                    mercy. She spoke as with her father's authority, though, if she had been
                    differently disposed, she might have remembered that his system and principles
                    were the same as theirs, and that, had he been alive, he would probably have
                    fully approved of their proceedings. Archdeacon Morville's name was of great
                    weight, and justified many persons, in their own opinion, in the opposition made
                    to Miss Wellwood, impeding her usefulness, and subjecting her to endless petty
                    calumnies.
                These made Guy very angry. He knew enough of the Archdeacon through Mrs.
                    Edmonstone, and the opinions held by Philip, to think his daughter was ascribing
                    to him what he had never held but, be that as it might, Guy could not bear to
                    hear good, evil spoken of, and his indignation was stirred as he heard these
                    spiteful reports uttered by people who sat at
                    home at ease, against one whose daily life was only too exalted for their
                    imitation. His brow contracted, his eye kindled, his lip was bitten, and now and
                    then, when he trusted himself to reply, it was with a keen, sharp power of
                    rebuke that made people look round, astonished to hear such forcible words from
                    one so young. Mrs. Henley was afraid of him, without knowing it; she thought she
                    was sparing the Morville temper when she avoided the subject, but as she stood
                    in awe of no one else, except her brother, she disliked him accordingly.
                One evening Guy had been dining at Dr. Henley's, and was setting out, enjoying
                    his escape from Mrs. Henley and her friends, and rejoicing in the prospect of a
                    five miles' walk over the hills by moonlight. He had only gone the length of two
                    streets, when he saw a dark figure at a little distance from him, and a voice
                    which he had little expected to hear, called out,—
                ‘Sir Guy himself! No one else could whistle that Swedish air so correctly!’
                ‘My uncle!’ exclaimed Guy. ‘I did not know that you were here!’
                Mr. Dixon laughed, said something about a fortunate rencontre, and began an
                    account about a concert somewhere or other, mixed up with something about his
                    wife and child, all so rambling and confused, that Guy, beginning to suspect he
                    had been drinking, was only anxious to get rid of him, asked where he lodged,
                    and talked of coming to see him in the morning. He soon found, however, that
                    this had not been the case, at least not to any great extent. Dixon was only
                    nervous and excited, either about something he had done, or some request he had
                    to make, and he went on walking by his nephew's side, talking in a strange,
                    desultory way of open, generous-hearted fellows overlooking a little
                    indiscretion, and of Guy's riches, which he seemed to think inexhaustible.
                ‘If there is anything that you want me to do for you, tell me plainly what it
                    is,’ said Guy, at last.
                
                Mr. Dixon began to overwhelm him with thanks, but he cut them short. ‘I promise
                    nothing. Let me hear what you want, and I can judge whether I can do it.’
                Sebastian broke out into exclamations at the words ‘if I can,’ as if he thought
                    everything in the power of the heir of Redclyffe.
                ‘Have I not told you,’ said Guy, ‘that for the present I have very little command
                    of money? Hush! no more of that,’ he added, sternly, cutting off an imprecation
                    which his uncle was commencing on those who kept him so short.
                ‘And you are content to bear it? Did you never hear of ways and means? If you
                    were to say but one word of borrowing, they would go down on their knees to you,
                    and offer you every farthing you have to keep you in their own hands.’
                ‘I am quite satisfied,’ said Guy, coldly.
                ‘The greater fool are you!’ was on Dixon's lips, but he did not utter it, because
                    he wanted to propitiate him; and after some more circumlocution, Guy succeeded
                    in discovering that he had been gambling, and had lost an amount which, unless
                    he could obtain immediate assistance, would become known, and lead to the loss
                    of his character and situation. Guy stood and considered. He had an impulse, but
                    he did not think it a safe one, and resolved to give himself time.
                ‘I do not say that I cannot help you,’ he answered, ‘but I must have time to
                    consider.’
                ‘Time! would you see me ruined while you are considering?’
                ‘I suppose this must be paid immediately. Where do you lodge?’
                Mr. Dixon told him the street and number.
                ‘You shall hear from me to-morrow morning. I cannot trust my present thoughts.
                    Good night!’
                Mr. Dixon would fain have guessed whether the present thoughts were favourable,
                    but all his hope in his extremity was in his nephew; it might be fatal to push him too far, and, with a certain trust
                    in his good-nature, Sebastian allowed him to walk away without further
                    remonstrance.
                Guy knew his own impetuous nature too well to venture to act on impulse in a
                    doubtful case. He had now first to consider what he was able to do, and secondly
                    what he would do; and this was not as clear to his mind as in the earlier days
                    of his acquaintance with his uncle.
                Their intercourse had never been on a comfortable footing. It would perhaps have
                    been better if Philip's advice had been followed, and no connexion kept up. Guy
                    had once begged for some definite rule, since there was always vexation when he
                    was known to have been with his uncle, and yet Mr. Edmonstone would never
                    absolutely say he ought not to see him. As long as his guardian permitted it, or
                    rather winked at it, Guy did not think it necessary to attend to Philip's marked
                    disapproval. Part of it was well founded, but part was dislike to all that might
                    be considered as vulgar, and part was absolute injustice to Sebastian Dixon,
                    there was everything that could offend in his line of argument, and in the very
                    circumstance of his interfering; and Guy had a continual struggle, in which he
                    was not always successful, to avoid showing the affront he had taken, and to
                    reason down his subsequent indignation. The ever-recurring irritation which
                    Philip's conversation was apt to cause him, made him avoid it as far as he
                    could, and retreat in haste from the subjects on which they were most apt to
                    disagree, and so his manner had assumed an air of reserve, and almost of
                    distrust, with his cousin, that was very unlike its usual winning openness.
                This had been one unfortunate effect of his intercourse with his uncle, and
                    another was a certain vague, dissatisfied feeling which his silence, and
                    Philip's insinuations respecting the days he spent in London, left on Mr.
                    Edmonstone's mind, and which gained strength from their recurrence. The days
                    were, indeed, not many; it was only that in
                    coming from and going to Oxford, he slept a night at an hotel in London (for his
                    uncle never would take him to his lodgings, never even would tell him where they
                    were, but always gave his address at the place of his engagement), was conducted
                    by him to some concert in the evening, and had him to breakfast in the morning.
                    He could not think there was any harm in this; he explained all he had done to
                    Mr. Edmonstone the first time, but nothing was gained by it: his visits to
                    London continued to be treated as something to be excused or overlooked—as
                    something not quite correct.
                He would almost have been ready to discontinue them, but that he saw that his
                    uncle regarded him with affection, and he could not bear the thought of giving
                    up a poor relation for the sake of the opinion of his rich friends. These
                    meetings were the one pure pleasure to which Sebastian looked, recalling to him
                    the happier days of his youth, and of his friendship with Guy's father; and when
                    Guy perceived how he valued them, it would have seemed a piece of cruel neglect
                    to gratify himself by giving the time to Hollywell.
                Early in the course of their acquaintance, the importunity of a creditor revealed
                    that, in spite of his handsome salary, Sebastian Dixon was often in considerable
                    distress for money. In process of time, Guy discovered that at the time his
                    uncle had been supporting his sister and her husband in all the luxury he
                    thought befitted their rank, he had contracted considerable debts, and he had
                    only been able to return to England on condition of paying so much a-year to his
                    creditors. This left him very little on which to maintain his family; but still
                    his pride made him bent on concealing his difficulties, and it was not without a
                    struggle that he would at first consent to receive assistance from his
                    nephew.
                Guy resolved that these debts, which he considered as in fact his father's own,
                    should be paid as soon as he had the command of his property; but, in the meantime, he thought himself bound to send
                    his uncle all the help in his power, and when once the effort of accepting it at
                    all was over, Dixon's expectations extended far beyond his power. His allowance
                    was not large, and the constant requests for a few pounds to meet some pressing
                    occasion were more than he could well meet. They kept him actually a great deal
                    poorer than men without a tenth part of his fortune, and at the end of the term
                    he would look back with surprise at having been able to pay his way; but still
                    he contrived neither to exceed his allowance, nor to get into debt. This was,
                    indeed, only done by a rigid self-denial of little luxuries such as most young
                    men look on nearly as necessaries; but he had never been brought up to think
                    self-indulgence a consequence of riches, he did not care what was said of him,
                    he had no expensive tastes, for he did not seek after society, so that he was
                    not ill-prepared for such a course, and only thought of it as an assistance in
                    abstaining from the time-wasting that might have tempted him if he had had
                    plenty of money to spend.
                The only thing that concerned him was a growing doubt lest he might be feeding
                    extravagance instead of doing good; and the more he disliked himself for the
                    suspicion, the more it would return. There was no doubt much distress, the
                    children were sickly; several of them died; the doctor's bills, and other
                    expenses, pressed heavily, and Guy blamed himself for having doubted. Yet,
                    again, he could not conceal from himself traces that his uncle was careless and
                    imprudent. He had once, indeed, in a violent fit of self-reproach, confessed as
                    much, allowed that what ought to have been spent in the maintenance of his
                    family, had gone in gambling, but immediately after, he had been seized with a
                    fit of terror, and implored Guy to guard the secret, since, if once it came to
                    the knowledge of his creditors, it would be all over with him.
                Concealment of his present difficulties was therefore no less necessary than
                    assistance in paying the sum he owed. Indeed,
                    as far as Guy was able to understand his confused statement, what he wanted was
                    at once to pay a part of his debt, before he could go on to a place where he was
                    engaged to perform, and where he would earn enough to make up the rest.
                Guy had intended to have sent for Deloraine, but had since given up the idea, in
                    order to be able to help forward some plans of Miss Wellwood's, and resigning
                    this project would enable him to place thirty pounds at his uncle's disposal,
                    leaving him just enough to pay his expenses at South Moor, and carry him back to
                    Hollywell. It was sorely against his inclination that, instead of helping a
                    charity, his savings should go to pay gaming debts, and his five miles' walk was
                    spent in self-debate on the right and wrong of the matter, and questions what
                    should be done for the future—for he was beginning to awaken to the sense of his
                    responsibility, and feared lest he might be encouraging vice.
                Very early next morning Guy put his head into his tutor's room, announced that he
                    must walk into St. Mildred's on business, but should be back by eleven at the
                    latest, ran down stairs, called Bustle, and made interest with the farmer's wife
                    for a hunch of dry bread and a cup of new milk.
                Then rejoicing that he had made up his mind, though not light-hearted enough to
                    whistle, he walked across the moorland, through the white morning mist, curling
                    on the sides of the hills in fantastic forms, and now and then catching his
                    lengthened shadow, so as to make him smile by reminding him of the spectre of
                    the Brocken.
                Not without difficulty, he found a back street, and a little shop, where a
                    slovenly maid was sweeping the steps, and the shutters were not yet taken down.
                    He asked if Mr. Dixon lodged there. ‘Yes,’ the woman said, staring in amazement
                    that such a gentleman could be there at that time in the morning, asking for Mr.
                    Dixon.
                ‘Is he at home?’
                
                ‘Yes, sir but he is not up yet. He was very late last night. Did you want to
                    speak to him? I'll tell Mrs. Dixon.’
                ‘Is Mrs. Dixon here? Then tell her Sir Guy Morville would be glad to speak to
                    her.’
                The maid curtseyed, hurried off, and returned with a message from Mrs. Dixon to
                    desire he would walk in. She conducted him through a dark passage, and up a
                    still darker stair, into a dingy little parlour, with a carpet of red and green
                    stripes, a horsehair sofa, a grate covered with cut paper, and a general perfume
                    of brandy and cigars. There were some preparations for breakfast, but no one was
                    in the room but a little girl, about seven years old, dressed in shabby-genteel
                    mourning.
                She was pale and sickly-looking, but her eyes were of a lovely deep blue, with a
                    very sweet expression, and a profusion of thick flaxen curls hung round her neck
                    and shoulders. She said in a soft, little, shy voice,—
                ‘Mamma says she will be here directly, if you will excuse her a moment.’
                Having made this formal speech, the little thing was creeping off on tiptoe, so
                    as to escape before the maid shut the door, but Guy held out his hand, sat down
                    so as to be on a level with her, and said,—
                ‘Don't go, my little maid. Wont you come and speak to your cousin Guy?’
                Children never failed to be attracted, whether by the winning beauty of his
                    smile, or the sweetness of the voice in which he spoke to anything small or
                    weak, and the little girl willingly came up to him, and put her hand into his.
                    He stroked her thick, silky curls, and asked her name.
                ‘Marianne,’ she answered.
                It was his mother's name, and this little creature had more resemblance to his
                    tenderly-cherished vision of his young mother than any description Dixon could
                    have given. He drew her closer to him, took the other small, cold hand, and
                    asked her how she liked St. Mildred's.
                
                ‘Oh! much better than London. There are flowers!’ and she proudly exhibited a cup
                    holding some ragged robins, dead nettles, and other common flowers which a
                    country child would have held cheap. He admired, and gained more of her
                    confidence, so that she had begun to chatter away quite freely about ‘the high,
                    high hills that reached up to the sky, and the pretty stones,’ till the door
                    opened, and Mrs. Dixon and Bustle made their entrance.
                Marianne was so much afraid of the dog, Guy so eager to console, and her mother
                    to scold her, and protest that it should not be turned out, that there was
                    nothing but confusion, until Guy had shown her that Bustle was no dangerous wild
                    beast, induced her to accept his offered paw, and lay a timid finger on his
                    smooth, black head, after which the transition was short to dog and child
                    sitting lovingly together on the floor, Marianne stroking his ears, and admiring
                    him with a sort of silent ecstasy.
                Mrs. Dixon was a great, coarse, vulgar woman, and Guy perceived why his uncle had
                    been so averse to taking him to his home, and how he must have felt the contrast
                    between such a wife and his beautiful sister. She had a sort of broad sense, and
                    absence of pretension, but her manner of talking was by no means pleasant, as
                    she querulously accused her husband of being the cause of all their misfortunes,
                    not even restrained by the presence of her child from entering into a full
                    account of his offences.
                Mrs. Dixon said she should not say a word, she should not care if it was not for
                    the child, but she could not see her wronged by her own father, and not
                    complain; poor little dear! she was the last, and she supposed she should not
                    keep her long.
                It then appeared that on her husband's obtaining an engagement for a series of
                    concerts at the chief county town, Mrs. Dixon had insisted on coming with him to
                    St. Mildred's in the hope that country air might benefit Marianne, who, in a
                    confined lodging in London, was pining and
                    dwindling as her brothers and sisters had done before her. Sebastian, who liked
                    to escape from his wife's grumbling and rigid supervision, and looked forward to
                    amusement in his own way at the races, had grudgingly allowed her to come, and,
                    as she described it, had been reluctant to go to even so slight an expense in
                    the hope of saving his child's life. She had watched him as closely as she
                    could; but he had made his escape, and the consequences Guy already knew.
                If anything could have made it worse, it was finding that after parting last
                    night, he had returned, tried to retrieve his luck, had involved himself
                    further, had been drinking more; and at the very hour when his nephew was
                    getting up to see what could be done for him, had come home in a state, which
                    made it by no means likely that he would be presentable, if his wife called him,
                    as she offered to do.
                Guy much preferred arranging with her what was to be done on the present
                    emergency. She was disappointed at finding thirty pounds was all the help he
                    could give; but she was an energetic woman, full of resources, and saw her way,
                    with this assistance, through the present difficulty. The great point was to
                    keep the gambling propensities out of sight of the creditors; and as long as
                    this was done, she had hope. Dixon would go the next morning to the town where
                    the musical meeting was to be held, and there he would be with his employers,
                    where he had a character to preserve, so that she was in no fear of another
                    outbreak.
                It ended, therefore, in his leaving with her Mr. Edmonstone's draft, securing its
                    destination by endorsing it to the person who was to receive it; and wishing her
                    good morning, after a few more kind words to little Marianne, who had sat
                    playing with Bustle all the time, sidling continually nearer and nearer to her
                    new cousin, her eyes bent down, and no expression on her face which could enable
                    him to guess how far she listened to or comprehended conversation so unfit for her ear. When he rose to go, and stooped
                    to kiss her, she looked wistfully in his face, and held up a small sparkling bit
                    of spar, the most precious of all her hoards, gleaned from the roadsides of St.
                    Mildred's.
                ‘What, child, do you want to give it to Sir Guy?’ said her mother. ‘He does not
                    want such trumpery, my dear, though you make such a work with it.’
                ‘Did you mean to give it to me, my dear?’ said Guy, as the child hung her head,
                    and, crimsoned with blushes, could scarcely whisper her timid ‘Yes.’
                He praised it, and let her put it in his waistcoat pocket, and promised he would
                    always keep it; and kissed her again, and left her a happy child, confident in
                    his promise of always keeping it, though her mother augured that he would throw
                    it over the next hedge.
                He was at South Moor by eleven o'clock, in time for his morning's business, and
                    made up for the troubles of the last few hours by a long talk with Mr. Wellwood
                    in the afternoon, while the other two pupils were gone to the races, for which
                    he was not inclined, after his two ten mile walks.
                The conversation was chiefly on Church prospects in general, and in particular on
                    Miss Wellwood and her plans; how they had by degrees enlarged and developed as
                    the sin, and misery, and ignorance around had forced themselves more plainly on
                    her notice, and her means had increased and grown under her hand in the very
                    distribution. Other schemes were dawning on her mind, of which the foremost was
                    the foundation of a sort of school and hospital united, under the charge of
                    herself, her sister, and several other ladies, who were desirous of joining her,
                    as a sisterhood. But at present it was hoping against hope, for there were no
                    funds with which to make a commencement. All this was told at unawares, drawn
                    forth by different questions and remarks, till Guy inquired how much ‘it would
                    take to give them a start?’
                ‘It is impossible to say. Anything, I suppose, 
                        be-
                        between
                     tween one thousand and twenty. But,
                    by the bye, this design of Elizabeth's is an absolute secret. If you had not
                    almost guessed it, I should never have said one word to you about it. You are a
                    particularly dangerous man, with your connection with Mrs. Henley. You must take
                    special good care nothing of it reaches her.’
                Guy's first impression was, that he was the last person to mention it to Mrs.
                    Henley; but when he remembered how often her brother was at Hollywell, he
                    perceived that there might be a train for carrying the report back again to her,
                    and recognized the absolute necessity of silence.
                He said nothing at the time, but a bright scheme came into his head, resulting in
                    the request for a thousand pounds, which caused so much astonishment. He thought
                    himself rather shabby to have named no more, and was afraid it was an offering
                    that cost him nothing; but he much enjoyed devising beforehand the letter with
                    which he would place the money at the disposal of Miss Wellwood's hospital.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER XVI.
                
                    
                        
                            
                                Yet burns the sun on high beyond the cloud;
                                Each in his southern cave,
                                The warm winds linger, but to be allowed
                                One breathing o'er the wave,
                                One flight across the unquiet sky;
                                Swift as a vane may turn on high,
                                The smile of heaven comes on.
                                So waits the Lord behind the veil,
                                His light on frenzied cheek, or pale,
                                To shed when the dark hour is gone.
                            
                        
                        —LYRA INNOCENTIUM.
                    
                
                ON the afternoon on which Guy expected an answer from Mr.
                    Edmonstone, he walked with his fellow pupil, Harry Graham, to see if there were
                    any letters from him at Dr. Henley's.
                The servant said Mrs. Henley was at home; and asked them to come in and take
                    their letters. These were lying on a marble table, in the hall; and while the
                    man looked in the drawing-room for his mistress, and sent one of the maids
                    upstairs in quest of her, Guy hastily took up one, bearing his address, in the
                    well-known hand of Mr. Edmonstone.
                Young Graham, who had taken up a newspaper, was startled by Guy's loud, sudden
                    exclamation,—’
                ‘Ha! What on earth does this mean?’
                And looking up, saw his face of a burning, glowing red, the features almost
                    convulsed, the large veins in the forehead and temples swollen with the blood
                    that rushed through them; and if ever his eyes flashed with the dark lightning
                    of Sir Hugh's, it was then.
                
                ‘Morville! What's the matter?’
                ‘Intolerable!—insulting! Me? What does he mean?’ continued Guy, his passion
                    kindling more and more. ‘Proofs? I should like to see them! The man is crazy! I
                    to confess! Ha!’ as he came towards the end, ‘I see it,—I see it. It is Philip,
                    is it, that I have to thank. Meddling coxcomb! I'll make him repent it,’ added
                    he, with a grim fierceness of determination. ‘Slandering me to them! And
                    that,’—looking at the words with regard to Amy,—‘that passes all. He shall see
                    what it is to insult me!’
                ‘What is it? Your guardian out of humour?’ asked his companion.
                ‘My guardian is a mere weak fool. I don't blame him,—he can't help it; but to see
                    him made a tool of! He twists him round his finger, abuses his weakness to
                    insult—to accuse. But he shall give me an account!’
                Guy's voice had grown lower and more husky; but though the sound sunk, the force
                    of passion rather increased than diminished; it was like the low distant sweep
                    of the tempest as it whirls away, preparing to return with yet more tremendous
                    might. His colour, too, had faded to paleness, but the veins were still swollen,
                    purple, and throbbing; and there was a stillness about him that made his wrath
                    more than fierce, intense, almost appalling.
                Harry Graham was dumb with astonishment; but while Guy spoke, Mrs. Henley had
                    come down, and was standing before them, beginning a greeting. The blood rushed
                    back into Guy's cheeks, and, controlling his voice with powerful effort, he
                    said,—
                ‘I have had an insulting—an unpleasant letter,’ he added, catching himself up.
                    ‘You must excuse me,’ and he was gone.
                ‘What has happened?’ exclaimed Mrs. Henley, though, from her brother's letter, as
                    well as from her observations during a long and purposely slow progress, along a
                    railed gallery overhanging the hall, and down
                    a winding staircase, she knew pretty well the whole history of his anger.
                ‘I don't know,’ said young Graham. ‘Some absurd person interfering between him
                    and his guardian. I should be sorry to be him to fall in his way just now. It
                    must be something properly bad. I never saw a man in such a rage. I think I had
                    better go after him, and see what he has done with himself.’
                ‘You don't think,’ said Mrs. Henley, detaining him, ‘that his guardian could have
                    been finding fault with him with reason?’
                ‘Who? Morville? His guardian must have a sharp eye for picking holes if he can
                    find any in Morville. Not a steadier fellow going,—only too much so.’
                ‘Ah!’ thought Mrs. Henley, ‘these young men always hang together;’ and she let
                    him escape without further question. But, when he emerged from the house, Guy
                    was already out of sight, and he could not succeed in finding him.
                Guy had burst out of the house, feeling as if nothing could relieve him but free
                    air and rapid motion; and on he hurried, fast, faster, conscious alone of the
                    wild, furious tumult of rage and indignation against the maligner of his
                    innocence, who was knowingly ruining him with all that was dearest to him,
                    insulting him by reproaches on his breaking a most sacred, unblemished word,
                    and, what Guy felt scarcely less keenly, forcing kind-hearted Mr. Edmonstone
                    into a persecution so foreign to his nature. The agony of suffering such an
                    accusation, and from such a quarter,—the violent storm of indignation and
                    pride,—wild, undefined ideas of a heavy reckoning,—above all, the dreary thought
                    of Amy denied to him for ever,—all these swept over him, and swayed him by
                    turns, with the dreadful intensity belonging to a nature formed for violent
                    passions, which had broken down, in the sudden shock, all the barriers imposed
                    on them by a long course of self-restraint.
                
                On he rushed, reckless whither he went, or what he did, driven forward by the
                    wild impulse of passion, far over moor and hill, up and down, till at last,
                    exhausted at once by the tumult within, and by the violent bodily exertion, a
                    stillness—a suspension of thought and sensation—ensued; and when this passed, he
                    found himself seated on a rock which crowned the summit of one of the hills, his
                    handkerchief loosened, his waistcoat open, his hat thrown off, his temples
                    burning and throbbing with a feeling of distraction, and the agitated beatings
                    of his heart almost stifling his panting breath.
                ‘Yes,’ he muttered to himself, ‘a heavy account shall he pay me for this crowning
                    stroke of a long course of slander and ill-will! Have I not seen it? Has not he
                    hated me from the first, misconstrued every word and deed, though I have tried,
                    striven earnestly, to be his friend,—borne, as not another soul would have done,
                    with his impertinent interference and intolerable patronizing airs! But he has
                    seen the last of it! anything but this might be forgiven; but sowing dissension
                    between me and the Edmonstones—maligning me there. Never! Knowing, too, as he
                    seems to do, how I stand, it is the very ecstasy of malice! Ay! this very night
                    it shall be exposed, and he shall be taught to beware—made to know with whom he
                    has to deal.’
                Guy uttered this last with teeth clenched, in an excess of deep, vengeful ire.
                    Never had Morville of the whole line felt more deadly fierceness than held sway
                    over him, as he contemplated his revenge, looked forward with a dire complacency
                    to the punishment he would wreak, not for this offence alone, but for a long
                    course of enmity. He sat, absorbed in the plan of vengeance, perfectly still,
                    for his physical exhaustion was complete; but as the pulsations of his heart
                    grew less wild, his purpose became sterner and more fixed. He devised its
                    execution, planned his sudden journey, saw
                    himself bursting on Philip early next morning, summoning him to answer for his
                    falsehoods. The impulse to action seemed to restore his power over his senses.
                    He looked round, to see where he was, raising his head from his hands.
                The sun was setting opposite to him, in a flood of gold,—a ruddy ball, surrounded
                    with its pomp of clouds, on the dazzling sweep of horizon. That sight recalled
                    him not only to himself, but to his true and better self; the good angel, so
                    close to him for the twenty years of his life, had been driven aloof but for a
                    moment, and now, either that, or a still higher and holier power, made the
                    setting sun bring to his mind, almost to his ear, the words,— 
                        
                            Let not the sun go down upon your wrath,
                            Neither give place to the devil.
                        
                    
                Guy had what some would call a vivid imagination, others a lively faith. He
                    shuddered; then, his elbows on his knees, and his hands clasped over his brow,
                    he sat, bending forward, with his eyes closed, wrought up in a fearful struggle;
                    while it was to him as if he saw the hereditary demon of the Morvilles watching
                    by his side, to take full possession of him as a rightful prey, unless the
                    battle was fought and won before that red orb had passed out of sight. Yes, the
                    besetting fiend of his family—the spirit of defiance and resentment—that was
                    driving him, even now, while realizing its presence, to disregard all thoughts
                    save of the revenge for which he could barter everything,—every hope once
                    precious to him.
                It was horror at such wickedness that first checked him, and brought him back to
                    the combat. His was not a temper that was satisfied with half-measures. He
                    locked his hands more rigidly together, vowing to compel himself, ere he left
                    the spot, to forgive his enemy—forgive him candidly—forgive him, so as never
                    again to have to say, ‘I forgive him!’ He did not try to think, for reflection only lashed up his sense of
                    the wrong: but, as if there was power in the words alone, he forced his lips to
                    repeat,—
                ‘Forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive them that trespass against us.’
                Coldly and hardly were they spoken at first; again he pronounced them, again,
                    again,—each time the tone was softer, each time they came more from the heart.
                    At last the remembrance of greater wrongs, and worse revilings came upon him,
                    his eyes filled with tears, the most subduing and healing of all thoughts—that
                    of the great Example—became present to him; the foe was driven back.
                Still he kept his hands over his face. The tempter was not yet defeated without
                    hope. It was not enough to give up his first intention (no great sacrifice, as
                    he perceived, now that he had time to think how Philip would be certain to treat
                    a challenge), it was not enough to wish no ill to his cousin, to intend no evil
                    measure, he must pardon from the bottom of his heart, regard him candidly, and
                    not magnify his injuries.
                He sat long, in deep thought, his head bent down, and his countenance stern with
                    inward conflict. It was the hardest part of the whole battle, for the Morville
                    disposition was as vindictive as passionate; but, at last, he recovered
                    clearness of vision. His request might well appear unreasonable, and possibly
                    excite suspicion, and, for the rest, it was doing a man of honour, like Philip,
                    flagrant injustice to suspect him of originating slanders. He was, of course,
                    under a mistake, had acted, not perhaps kindly, but as he thought, rightly and
                    judiciously, in making his suspicions known. If he had caused his uncle to write
                    provokingly, every one knew that was his way, he might very properly wish, under
                    his belief, to save Amabel; and though the manner might have been otherwise, the
                    proceeding itself admitted complete justification. Indeed, when Guy recollected
                    the frenzy of his rage, and his own murderous
                    impulse, he was shocked to think that he had ever sought the love of that pure
                    and gentle creature, as if it had been a cruel and profane linking of innocence
                    to evil. He was appalled at the power of his fury, he had not known he was
                    capable of it, for his boyish passion, even when unrestrained, had never
                    equalled this, in all the strength of early manhood.
                He looked up, and saw that the last remnant of the sun's disk was just
                    disappearing beneath the horizon. The victory was won!
                But Guy's feeling was not the rejoicing of the conquest, it was more the relief
                    which is felt by a little child, weary of its fit of naughtiness, when its
                    tearful face is raised, mournful yet happy, in having won true repentance, and
                    it says, ‘I am sorry now.’
                He rose, looked at his watch, wondered to find it so late; gazed round, and
                    considered his bearings, perceiving, with a sense of shame, how far he had
                    wandered; then retraced his steps slowly and wearily, and did not reach South
                    Moor till long after dark.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER XVII.
                
                    
                        
                            
                                My blood hath been too cold and temperate,
                                Unapt to stir at these indignities;
                                But you have found me.
                            
                        
                        —KING HENRY IV.
                    
                
                PHILIP, according to promise, appeared at Hollywell, and a
                    volume of awful justice seemed written on his brow. Charles, though ignorant of
                    its cause, perceived this at a glance, and greeted him thus:—
                ‘Enter Don Philip II, the Duke of Alva, alguazils, corregidors, and
                    executioners.’
                ‘Is anything the matter, Philip?’ said Amy; a question which took him by
                    surprise, as he could not believe her in ignorance. He was sorry for her, and
                    answered gravely,—
                ‘Nothing is amiss with me, thank you, Amy,’
                She knew he meant that he would tell no more, and would have thought no more
                    about it, but that she saw her mother was very uneasy.
                ‘Did you ask whether there were any letters at the post?’ said Charles. ‘Guy is
                    using us shamefully—practising self-denial on us, I suppose. Is there no letter
                    from him?’
                ‘There is,’ said Philip, reluctantly.
                ‘Well, where is it?’
                ‘It is to your father.’
                ‘Oh!’ said Charles, with a disappointed air. ‘Are you sure? Depend on it, you
                    overlooked my M. He has owed me a letter this fortnight. Let me see.’
                ‘It is for my uncle,’ repeated Philip, as if to put an end to the subject.
                
                ‘Then he has been so stupid as to forget my second name. Come, give it me. I
                    shall have it sooner or later.’
                ‘I assure you, Charles, it is not for you.’
                ‘Would not any one suppose he had been reading it?’ exclaimed Charles.
                ‘Did you know Mary Ross was gone to stay with her brother John?’ broke in Mrs.
                    Edmonstone, in a nervous, hurried manner.
                ‘No; is she?’ replied Philip.
                ‘Yes; his wife is ill.’
                The universal feeling was that something was amiss, and mamma was in the secret.
                    Amy looked wistfully at her, but Mrs. Edmonstone only gazed at the window, and
                    so they continued for some minutes, while an uninteresting exchange of question
                    and answer was kept up between her and her nephew until at length the
                    dressing-bell rang, and cleared the room. Mrs. Edmonstone lingered till her son
                    and daughters were gone, and said,—
                ‘You have heard from St. Mildred's?’
                ‘Yes,’ said Philip, as if he was as little inclined to be communicative to her as
                    to his cousins.
                ‘From Guy, or from Margaret?’
                ‘From Margaret.’
                ‘But you say there is a letter from him.’
                ‘Yes, for my uncle.’
                ‘Does she say nothing more satisfactory?’ asked his aunt, her anxiety tortured by
                    his composure. ‘Has she learnt no more?’
                ‘Nothing more of his proceedings. I see Amy knows nothing of the matter?’
                ‘No; her papa thought there was no need to distress her till we had seen whether
                    he could explain.’
                ‘Poor little thing!’ said Philip; ‘I am very sorry for her.’
                Mrs. Edmonstone did not choose to discuss her daughter's affairs with him, and
                    she turned the conversation to ask if Margaret said much of Guy.
                
                ‘She writes to tell the spirit in which he received my uncle's letter. It is only
                    the Morville temper, again; and, of course, whatever you may think of that on
                    Amy's account, I should never regard it, as concerns myself, as other than his
                    misfortune. I hope he may be able to explain the rest.’
                ‘Ah! there comes your uncle!’ and Mr. Edmonstone entered.
                ‘How d'ye do, Philip? Brought better news, eh?’
                ‘Here is a letter to speak for itself.’
                ‘Eh? From Guy? Give it me. What does he say? Let me see. Here, mamma, read it;
                    your eyes are best.’
                Mrs. Edmonstone read as follows:—
                
                    
                        
                            
                                ‘MY DEAR MR. EDMONSTONE,—Your letter surprised and grieved me
                                    very much. I cannot guess what proofs Philip may think he has,
                                    of what I never did, and, therefore, I cannot refute them
                                    otherwise than by declaring that I never gamed in my life. Tell
                                    me what they are, and I will answer them. As to a full
                                    confession, I could of course tell you of much in which I have
                                    done wrongly, though not in the way which he supposes. On that
                                    head, I have nothing to confess. I am sorry I am prevented from
                                    satisfying you about the £1000, but I am bound in honour not to
                                    mention the purpose for which I wanted it. I am sure you could
                                    never believe I could have said what I did to Mrs. Edmonstone if
                                    I had begun on a course which I detest from the bottom of my
                                    heart. Thank you very much for the kindness of the latter part
                                    of your letter. I do not know how I could have borne it, if it
                                    had ended as it began. I hope you will soon send me these proofs
                                    of Philip's. Ever your affectionate,
                                
                                    ‘G.M.’
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                Not a little surprised was Philip to find that he was known to be Guy's accuser,
                    but the conclusion revealed that his style had betrayed him, and that Mr.
                    Edmonstone had finished with some mention of him, and he resolved that henceforth he would never leave
                    a letter of his own dictation till he had seen it signed and sealed.
                ‘Well!’ cried Mr. Edmonstone, joyfully beating his own hand with his glove, ‘that
                    is all right. I knew it would be so. He can't even guess what we are at. I am
                    glad we did not teaze poor little Amy. Eh, mamma?—eh, Philip?’ the last eh being
                    uttered much more doubtfully, and less triumphantly than the first.
                ‘I wonder you think it right,’ said Philip.
                ‘What more would you have?’ said Mr. Edmonstone, hastily.
                ‘Confidence.’
                ‘Eh? Oh, ay, he says he can't tell—bound in honour.’
                ‘It is easy to write off-hand, and say I cannot satisfy you, I am bound in
                    honour; but that is not what most persons would think a full justification,
                    especially considering the terms on which you stand.’
                ‘Why, yes, he might have said more. It would have been safe enough with me.’
                ‘It is his usual course of mystery, reserve, and defiance.’
                ‘The fact is,’ said Mr. Edmonstone, turning away, ‘that it is a very proper
                    letter; right sense, proper feeling—and if he never gamed in his life, what
                    would you have more?’
                ‘There are different ways of understanding such a denial as this,’ said Philip.
                    ‘See, he says not in the way in which I suppose.’ He held up his hand
                    authoritatively, as his aunt was about to interpose. ‘It was against gaming that
                    his vow was made. I never thought he had played, but he never says he has not
                    betted.’
                ‘He would never be guilty of a subterfuge?’ exclaimed Mrs. Edmonstone,
                    indignantly.
                ‘I should not have thought so, without the evidence of the payment of the cheque,
                    my uncle had just given him, to this gambling fellow,’ said Philip; ‘yet it is
                        only the natural consequence of the habit
                    of eluding inquiry into his visits to London.’
                ‘I can't see any reason for so harsh an accusation,’ said she.
                ‘I should hardly want more reason than his own words. He refuses to answer the
                    question on which my uncle's good opinion depends; he owns he has been to blame,
                    and thus retracts his full denial. In my opinion, his letter says nothing so
                    plainly as, ‘While I can stand fair with you I do not wish to break with
                    you.’’
                ‘He will not find that quite so easy!‘ cried Mr. Edmonstone. ‘I am no fool to be
                    hoodwinked, especially where my little Amy is concerned. I'll see all plain and
                    straight before he says another word of her. But you see what comes of their
                    settling it, while I was out of the way.’
                Mrs. Edmonstone was grieved to see him so hurt at this. It could not have been
                    helped, and if all had been smooth, he never would have thought of it again; but
                    it served to keep up his dignity in his own eyes, and, as he fancied, to defend
                    him from Philip's censure, and he therefore made the most of it, which so pained
                    her that she did not venture to continue her championship of Guy.
                ‘Well, well,’ said Mr. Edmonstone, ‘the question is what to do next—eh, Philip? I
                    wish he would have spoken openly. I hate mysteries. I'll write and tell him this
                    wont do; he must be explicit—eh, Philip?’
                ‘We will talk it over by-and-bye,’ said Philip.
                His aunt understood that it was to be in her absence, and left the room, fearing
                    it would be impossible to prevent Amy from being distressed, though she had no
                    doubt that Guy would be able to prove his innocence of the charges. She found
                    Amy waiting for her in her room.
                ‘Don't, ring, mamma, dear. I'll fasten your dress,’ said she; then pausing,—‘Oh!
                    mamma, I don't know whether I ought to ask,
                    but if you would only tell me if there is nothing gone wrong.’
                ‘I don't believe there is anything really wrong, my dear,’ said Mrs.
                    Edmonstone, kissing her, as she saw how her colour first deepened and then
                    faded.
                ‘Oh! no,’ said she.
                ‘But there is some mystery about his money matters, which has vexed your
                    papa.’
                ‘And what has Philip to do with it?’
                ‘I cannot quite tell, my dear. I believe Margaret Henley has heard something, but
                    I do not know the whole.’
                ‘Did you see his letter, mamma?’ said Amy, in a low, trembling voice.
                ‘Yes. It is just like himself, and absolutely denies the accusations.’
                Amy did not say ‘then they are false,’ but she held up her head.
                ‘Then papa is satisfied?’ she said.
                ‘I have no doubt all will be made clear in time,’ said her mother; ‘but there is
                    still something unexplained, and I am afraid things may not go smoothly just
                    now. I am very sorry, my little Amy, that such a cloud should have come over
                    you,’ she added, smoothing fondly the long, soft hair, sad at heart to see the
                    cares and griefs of womanhood gathering over her child's bright, young life.
                ‘I said I must learn to bear things!’ murmured Amy to herself. ‘Only,’ and the
                    tears filled her eyes, and she spoke with almost childish simplicity of manner,
                    ‘I can't bear them to vex him. I wish Philip would let papa settle it alone. Guy
                    will be angry, and grieved afterwards.’
                They were interrupted by the dinner-bell, but Amy ran into her own room for one
                    moment.
                ‘I said I would learn to bear,’ said she to herself, ‘or I shall never be fit for
                    him. Yes, I will, even though it is the thinking he is unhappy. He said I must be his Verena; I know what that means; I
                    ought not to be uneasy, for he will bear it beautifully, and say he is glad of
                    it afterwards. And I will try not to seem cross to Philip.’
                Mr. Edmonstone was fidgety and ill at ease, found fault with the dinner, and was
                    pettish with his wife. Mrs. Edmonstone set Philip off upon politics, which
                    lasted till the ladies could escape into the drawing-room. In another minute
                    Philip brought in Charles, set him down, and departed. Amy, who was standing by
                    the window, resting her forehead against the glass, and gazing into the
                    darkness, turned round hastily, and left the room, but in passing her brother,
                    she put her hand into his, and received a kind pressure. Her mother followed
                    her, and the other three all began to wonder. Charles said he had regularly been
                    turned out of the dining-room by Philip, who announced that he wanted to speak
                    to his uncle, and carried him off.
                They conjectured, and were indignant at each other's conjectures, till their
                    mother returned, and gave them as much information as she could; but this only
                    made them very anxious. Charles was certain that Mrs. Henley had laid a
                    cockatrice egg, and Philip was hatching it; and Laura could not trust herself to
                    defend Philip, lest she should do it too vehemently. They could all agree in
                    desire to know the truth, in hope that Guy was not culpable, and, above all, in
                    feeling for Amy; but by tacit consent they were silent on the three shades of
                    opinion in their minds. Laura was confident that Philip was acting for the best;
                    Mrs. Edmonstone thought he might be mistaken in his premises, but desirous of
                    Guy's real good; and Charles, though sure he would allege nothing which he did
                    not believe to be true, also thought him ready to draw the worst conclusions
                    from small grounds, and to take pleasure in driving Mr. Edmonstone to the most
                    rigorous measures.
                Philip, meanwhile, was trying to practise great 
                        moder-
                        moderation
                     ation and forbearance, not bringing
                    forward at first what was most likely to incense Mr. Edmonstone, and without
                    appearance of animosity in his cool, guarded speech. There was no design in
                    this, he meant only to be just; yet anything less cool would have had far less
                    effect.
                When he shut the dining-room door, he found his uncle wavering, touched by the
                    sight of his little Amy, returning to his first favourable view of Guy's letter,
                    ready to overlook everything, accept the justification, and receive his ward on
                    the same footing as before, though he was at the same time ashamed that Philip
                    should see him relent, and desirous of keeping up his character for firmness,
                    little guessing how his nephew felt his power over him, and knew that he could
                    wield him at will.
                Perceiving and pitying his feebleness, and sincerely believing strong measures
                    the only rescue for Amy, the only hope for Guy, Philip found himself obliged to
                    work on him by the production of another letter from his sister. He would
                    rather, if possible, have kept this back, so much did his honourable feeling
                    recoil from what had the air of slander and mischief-making; but he regarded
                    firmness on his uncle's part as the only chance for Guy or for his cousin, and
                    was resolved not to let him swerve from strict justice.
                Mrs. Henley had written immediately after Guy's outburst in her house, and,
                    taking it for granted that her brother would receive a challenge, she wrote in
                    the utmost alarm, urging him to remember how precious he was to her, and not to
                    depart from his own principles.
                ‘You would not be so mad as to fight him, eh?’ said Mr. Edmonstone, anxiously.
                    ‘You know better—besides, for poor Amy's sake.’
                ‘For the sake of right,’ replied Philip, ‘no. I have reassured my sister. I have
                    told her that, let the boy do what he will, he shall never make me guilty of his
                    death.’
                
                ‘You have heard from him, then?’
                ‘No; I suppose a night's reflection convinced him that he had no rational grounds
                    for violent proceedings, and he had sense enough not to expose himself to such
                    an answer as I should have given. What caused his wrath to be directed towards
                    me especially, I cannot tell, nor can my sister,’ said Philip, looking full at
                    his uncle; ‘but I seem to have come in for a full share of it.’
                He proceeded to read the description of Guy's passion, and the expressions he had
                    used. Violent as it had been, it did not lose in Mrs. Henley's colouring; and
                    what made the effect worse was that she had omitted to say she had overheard his
                    language, so that it appeared as if he had been unrestrained even by gentlemanly
                    feeling, and had thus spoken of her brother and uncle in her presence.
                Mr. Edmonstone was resentful now, really displeased, and wounded to the quick.
                    The point on which he was especially sensitive, was his reputation for sense and
                    judgment; and that Guy, who had shown him so much respect and affection, whom he
                    had treated with invariable kindness, and received into his family like a son,
                    that he should thus speak of him shocked him extremely. He was too much overcome
                    even to break out into exclamations at first, he only drank off his glass of
                    wine hastily, and said, ‘I would never have thought it!’
                With these words, all desire for forbearance and toleration departed. If Guy
                    could speak thus of him, he was ready to believe any accusation, to think him
                    deceitful from the first, to say he had been trifling with Amy, to imagine him a
                    confirmed reprobate, and cast him off entirely. Philip had some difficulty to
                    restrain him from being too violent; and to keep him to the matter in hand, he
                    defended Guy from the exaggerations of his imagination in a manner which
                    appeared highly noble, considering how Guy had spoken of him. Before they parted that night, another letter had
                    been written, which stood thus,—
                
                    
                        
                            
                                ‘DEAR SIR GUY,—Since you refuse the confidence which I have a
                                    right to demand, since you elude the explanation I asked, and
                                    indulge yourself in speaking in disrespectful terms of me and my
                                    family, I have every reason to suppose that you have no desire
                                    to continue on the same footing as heretofore at Hollywell. As
                                    your guardian, I repeat that I consider myself bound to keep a
                                    vigilant watch over your conduct, and if possible to recover you
                                    from the unhappy course in which you have involved yourself, but
                                    all other intercourse between you and this family must
                                    cease.
                                ‘Your horse shall be sent to Redclyffe to-morrow.
                                
                                    ‘Yours faithfully,
                                    ‘C. EDMONSTONE.’
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                This letter was more harsh than Philip wished; but Mr. Edmonstone would hardly be
                    prevailed on to consent to enter on no further reproaches. He insisted on
                    banishing Deloraine, as well as on the mention of Guy's disrespect, both against
                    his nephew's opinion; but it was necessary to let him have his own way on these
                    points, and Philip thought himself fortunate in getting a letter written, which
                    was in any degree rational and moderate.
                They had been so busy, and Mr. Edmonstone so excited, that Philip thought it best
                    to accept the offer of tea being sent them in the dining-room, and it was not
                    till nearly midnight that their conference broke up, when Mr. Edmonstone found
                    his wife sitting up by the dressing-room fire, having shut Charles's door sorely
                    against his will.
                ‘There,’ began Mr. Edmonstone, ‘you may tell Amy she may give him up, and a lucky
                    escape she has had. But this is what comes of settling matters in my absence.’
                    So he proceeded with the narration, mixing the
                    facts undistinguishably with his own surmises, and overwhelming his wife with
                    dismay. If a quarter of this was true, defence of Guy was out of the question;
                    and it was still more impossible to wish Amy's attachment to him to continue,
                    and, though much was incredible, it was no time to say so. She could only hope
                    morning would soften her husband's anger, and make matters explicable.
                Morning failed to bring her comfort. Mr. Edmonstone repeated that Amy must be
                    ordered to give up all thoughts of Guy, and she perceived that the words
                    ascribed to him stood on evidence which could not be doubted. She could believe
                    he might have spoken them in the first shock of an unjust imputation, and she
                    thought he might have been drawn into some scrape to serve a friend; but she
                    could never suppose him capable of all Mr. Edmonstone imagined.
                The first attempt to plead his cause, however, brought on her an angry reply; for
                    Philip, by a hint, that she ‘never saw a fault in Guy,’ had put it into his
                    uncle's head that she would try to lead him, and made him particularly
                    inaccessible to her influence.
                There was no help for it, then; poor little Amy must hear the worst; and it was
                    not long before Mrs. Edmonstone found her waiting in the dressing-room. Between
                    obedience to her husband, her conviction of Guy's innocence, and her tenderness
                    to her daughter, Mrs. Edmonstone had a hard task, and she could scarcely check
                    her tears as Amy nestled up for her morning kiss.
                ‘O mamma! what is it?’
                ‘Dearest, I told you a cloud was coming. Try to bear it. Your papa is not
                    satisfied with Guy's answer, and it seems he spoke some hasty words of papa and
                    Philip; they have displeased papa very much, and, my dear child, you must try to
                    bear it, he has written to tell Guy he must not think any more of you.’
                ‘He has spoken hasty words of papa!’ repeated Amy, as if she had not heard the
                    rest. ‘How sorry he must be!’
                
                As she spoke, Charles's door was pushed open, and in he came, half dressed,
                    scrambling on, with but one crutch, to the chair near which she stood, with
                    drooping head and clasped hands.
                ‘Never mind, little Amy,’ he said; ‘I'll lay my life 'tis only some monstrous
                    figment of Mrs. Henley's. Trust my word, it will right itself; it is only a rock
                    to keep true love from running too smooth. Come, don't cry,’ as her tears began
                    to flow fast, ‘I only meant to cheer you up.’
                ‘I am afraid, Charlie,’ said his mother, putting a force on her own feeling, ‘it
                    is not the best or kindest way to do her good by telling her to dwell on hopes
                    of him.’
                ‘Mamma one of Philip's faction!’ exclaimed Charles.
                ‘Of no faction at all, Charles, but I am afraid it is a bad case;’ and Mrs.
                    Edmonstone related what she knew; glad to address herself to any one but Amy,
                    who stood still, meanwhile, her hands folded on the back of her brother's
                    chair.
                Charles loudly protested that the charges were absurd and preposterous, and would
                    be proved so in no time. He would finish dressing instantly, go to speak to his
                    father, and show him the sense of the thing. Amy heard and hoped, and his
                    mother, who had great confidence in his clear sight, was so cheered as almost to
                    expect that to-day's post might carry a conciliatory letter.
                Meantime, Laura and Philip met in the breakfast-room, and in answer to her
                    anxious inquiry, he had given her an account of Guy, which, though harsh enough,
                    was far more comprehensible than what the rest had been able to gather.
                She was inexpressibly shocked. ‘My poor dear little Amy!’ she exclaimed. ‘O
                    Philip, now I see all you thought to save me from!’
                ‘It is an unhappy business that it ever was permitted!’
                ‘Poor little dear! She was so happy, so very happy and sweet in her humility, and
                    her love. Do you know, Philip, I was almost
                    jealous for a moment that all should be so easy for them; and I blamed poverty;
                    but oh! there are worse things than poverty!’
                He did not speak, but his dark blue eye softened with the tender look known only
                    to her; and it was one of the precious moments for which she lived. She was
                    happy till the rest came down, and then a heavy cloud seemed to hang on them at
                    breakfast time.
                ‘Charles, who found anxiety on Guy's account more exciting, though considerably
                    less agreeable, than he had once expected, would not go away with the womankind;
                    but as soon as the door was shut, exclaimed,
                ‘Now then, Philip, let me know the true grounds of your persecution.’
                It was not a conciliating commencement. His father was offended, and poured out a
                    confused torrent of Guy's imagined misdeeds, while Philip explained and modified
                    his exaggerations.
                ‘So the fact is,’ said Charles, at length, ‘that Guy has asked for his own money,
                    and when in lieu of it he received a letter full of unjust charges, he declared
                    Philip was a meddling coxcomb. I advise you not to justify his opinion.’
                Philip disdained to reply, and after a few more of Mr. Edmonstone's exclamations
                    Charles proceeded,
                ‘This is the great sum total.’
                ‘No,’ said Philip; ‘I have proof of his gambling.’
                ‘What is it?’
                ‘I have shown it to your father, and he is satisfied.’
                ‘Is it not proof enough that he is lost to all sense of propriety, that he should
                    go and speak in that fashion of us, and to Philip's own sister?’ cried Mr.
                    Edmonstone. ‘What would you have more?’
                ‘That little epithet applied to Captain Morville is hardly, to my mind, proof
                    sufficient that a man is capable of every vice,’ said Charles, who, in the
                    pleasure of galling his cousin, did not perceive the harm he did his friend's
                    cause, by recalling the affront which his father, at least, felt most deeply.
                    Mr. Edmonstone grew angry with him for
                    disregarding the insulting term applied to himself; and Charles, who, though
                    improved in many points, still sometimes showed the effects of early habits of
                    disrespect to his father, answered hastily, that no one could wonder at Guy's
                    resenting such suspicions; he deserved no blame at all, and would have been a
                    blockhead to bear it tamely.
                This was more than Charles meant, but his temper was fairly roused, and he said
                    much more than was right or judicious, so that his advocacy only injured the
                    cause. He had many representations to make on the injustice of condemning Guy
                    unheard, of not even laying before him the proofs on which the charges were
                    founded, and on the danger of actually driving him into mischief by shutting the
                    doors of Hollywell against him. ‘If you wanted to make him all you say he is,
                    you are taking the very best means.’
                Quite true; but Charles had made his father too angry to pay attention. This
                    stormy discussion continued for nearly two hours, with no effect save inflaming
                    the minds of all parties. At last Mr. Edmonstone was called away; and Charles,
                    rising, declared he should go at that moment, and write to tell Guy that there
                    was one person at least still in his senses.
                ‘You will do as you please,’ said Philip.
                ‘Thank you for the permission,’ said Charles, proudly.
                ‘It is not to me that your submission is due,’ said Philip.
                ‘I'll tell you what, Philip, I submit to my own father readily, but I do not
                    submit to Captain Morville's instrument.’
                ‘We have had enough of unbecoming retorts for one day,’ said Philip, quietly, and
                    offering his arm.
                Much as Charles disliked it, he was in too great haste not to accept it; and
                    perceiving that there were visitors in the drawing-room, he desired to go up
                    stairs.
                ‘People who always come when they are not wanted!’ he muttered, as he went up,
                    pettish with them as with everything else.
                
                ‘I do not think you in a fit mood to be advised, Charles,’ said Philip; ‘but to
                    free my own conscience, let me say this. Take care how you promote this
                    unfortunate attachment.’
                ‘Take care what you say!’ exclaimed Charles, flushing with anger, as he threw
                    himself forward, with an impatient movement, trusting to his crutch rather than
                    retain his cousin's arm; but the crutch slipped, he missed his grasp at the
                    balusters, and would have fallen to the bottom of the flight if Philip had not
                    been close behind. Stretching out his foot, he made a barrier, receiving
                    Charles's weight against his breast, and then, taking him in his arms, carried
                    him up the rest of the way as easily as if he had been a child. The noise
                    brought Amy out of the dressing-room, much frightened, though she did not speak
                    till Charles was deposited on the sofa, and assured them he was not in the least
                    hurt, but he would hardly thank his cousin for having so dexterously saved him;
                    and Philip, relieved from the fear of his being injured, viewed the adventure as
                    a mere ebullition of ill-temper, and went away.
                ‘A fine helpless log am I,’ exclaimed Charles, as he found himself alone with
                    Amy. ‘A pretty thing for me to talk of being of any use, when I can't so much as
                    show my anger at an impertinence about my own sister, without being beholden for
                    not breaking my neck to the very piece of presumption that uttered it.’
                ‘Oh, don't speak so,’ began Amy; and at that moment Philip was close to them, set
                    down the crutch that had been dropped, and went, without speaking.
                ‘I don't care who hears,’ said Charles; ‘I say there is no greater misery in this
                    world than to have the spirit of a man and the limbs of a cripple. I know if I
                    was good for anything, things would not long be in this state. I should be at
                    St. Mildred's by this time, at the bottom of the whole story, and Philip would
                    be taught to eat his words in no time, and make as few wry faces as suited his
                    dignity. But what is the use of talking? This sofa’—and be struck his fist
                    against it— ‘is my prison, and I am a
                    miserable cripple, and it is mere madness in me to think of being attended
                    to.’
                ‘O Charlie!’ cried Amy, caressingly, and much distressed, ‘don't talk so. Indeed,
                    I can't bear it! You know it is not so.’
                ‘Do I? Have not I been talking myself hoarse, showing up their injustice, saying
                    all a man could say to bring them to reason, and not an inch could I move them.
                    I do believe Philip has driven my father stark mad with these abominable stories
                    of his sister's, which I verily believe she invented herself.’
                ‘O no, she could not. Don't say so.’
                ‘What? Are you going to believe them, too?’
                ‘Never!’
                ‘It is that which drives me beyond all patience,’ proceeded Charles, ‘to see
                    Philip lay hold of my father, and twist him about as he chooses, and set every
                    one down with his authority.’
                ‘Philip soon goes abroad,’ said Amy, who could not at the moment say anything
                    more charitable.
                ‘Ay! there is the hope. My father will return to his natural state provided they
                    don't drive Guy, in the meantime, to do something desperate.’
                ‘No, they wont,’ whispered Amy.
                ‘Well, give me the blotting-book. I'll write to him this moment, and tell him we
                    are not all the tools of Philip's malice.’
                Amy gave the materials to her brother, and then turning away, busied herself in
                    silence as best she might, in the employment her mother had recommended her, of
                    sorting some garden seeds for the cottagers. After an interval, Charles
                    said,
                ‘Well, Amy, what shall I say to him for you?’
                There was a little silence, and presently Amy whispered,
                ‘I don't think I ought.’
                ‘What?’ asked Charles, not catching her very low tones, as she sat behind him,
                    with her head bent down.
                
                ‘I don't think it would be right,’ she repeated, more steadily.
                ‘Not right for you to say you don't think him a villain?’
                ‘Papa said I was to have no—’ and there her voice was stopped with tears.
                ‘This is absurd, Amy,’ said Charles; ‘when it all was approved at first, and now
                    my father is acting on a wrong impression; what harm can there be in it? Every
                    one would do so.’
                ‘I am sure he would not think it right,’ faltered Amy.
                ‘He? You'll never have any more to say to him, if you don't take care what you
                    are about.’
                ‘I can't help it,’ said Amy, in a broken voice. ‘It is not right.’
                ‘Nonsense! folly!’ said Charles. ‘You are as bad as the rest. When they are
                    persecuting, and slandering, and acting in the most outrageous way against him,
                    and you know one word of yours would carry him through all, you wont say it, to
                    save him from distraction, and from doing all my father fancies he has done.
                    Then I believe you don't care a rush for him, and never want to see him again,
                    and believe the whole monstrous farrago. I vow I'll say so.’
                ‘O Charles, you are very cruel!’ said Amy, with an irrepressible burst of
                    weeping.
                ‘Then, if you don't believe it, why can't you send one word to comfort him?’
                She wept in silence for some moments; at last she said,—
                ‘It would not comfort him to think me disobedient. He will trust me without, and
                    he will know what you think. You are very kind, dear Charlie; but don't persuade
                    me any more, for I can't bear it. I am going away now; but don't fancy I am
                    angry, only I don't think I can sit by while you write that letter.’
                Poor little Amy, she seldom knew worse pain than at that moment, when she was
                    obliged to go away to put it out of her power
                    to follow the promptings of her heart to send the few kind words which might
                    prove that nothing could shake her love and trust.
                A fresh trial awaited her when she looked from her own window. She saw Deloraine
                    led out, his chestnut neck glossy in the sun and William prepared for a journey,
                    and the other servants shaking hands, and bidding him good-bye. She saw him ride
                    off, and could hardly help flying back to her brother to exclaim, ‘O Charlie,
                    they have sent Deloraine away!’ while the longing to send one kind greeting
                    became more earnest than ever; but she withstood it, and throwing herself on the
                    bed, exclaimed,—‘He will never come back—never, never!’ and gave way
                    unrestrainedly to a fit of weeping; nor was it till this had spent itself that
                    she could collect her thoughts.
                She was sitting on the side of her bed, trying to compose herself, when Laura
                    came in.
                ‘My own Amy—my poor, dearest,—I am very sorry!’
                ‘Thank you, dear Laura,’ and Amy gladly rested her aching head on her
                    shoulder.
                ‘I wish I knew what to do for you!’ proceeded Laura. ‘You cannot cease to think
                    about him, and yet you ought.’
                ‘If I ought, I suppose I can,’ said Amy in a voice exhausted with crying.
                ‘That's right, darling. You will not be weak, and pine for one who is not
                    worthy.’
                ‘Not worthy, Laura?’ said Amy, withdrawing her arm, and holding up her head.
                ‘Ah! my poor Amy, we thought—’
                ‘Yes; and it is so still. I know it is so. I know he did not do it.’
                ‘Then what do you think of Margaret and Philip?’
                ‘There is some mistake.’
                ‘And how can you defend what he said of papa?’
                ‘I don't,’ said Amy, hiding her face, ‘that is the worst; but I am sure it was
                    only a moment's passion, and that he must be very unhappy about it now. I don't think papa would mind it, at least not
                    long, if it was not for this other dreadful misapprehension. O Laura! why cannot
                    something be done to clear it up?’
                ‘Everything will be done,’ said Laura.‘ Papa has written to Mr. Wellwood; and
                    Philip means to go and make inquiries at Oxford and St. Mildred's.’
                ‘When?’ asked Amy.
                ‘Not till term begins. You know he is to have a fortnight's leave before the
                    regiment goes to Ireland.’
                ‘Oh, I hope it will come right then. People must come to an understanding when
                    they meet; it is so different from writing.’
                ‘He will do everything to set things on a right footing. You may be confident of
                    that, Amy, for your sake as much as anything else.’
                ‘I can't think why he should know I have anything to do with it,’ said Amy,
                    blushing. ‘I had much rather he did not.’
                ‘Surely, Amy, you think be can be trusted with your secret; and there is no one
                    who can take more care for you. You must look on him as one of
                    ourselves.’
                Amy made no answer, and Laura was annoyed.
                ‘You are vexed with him for having told this to papa; but that is not reasonable
                    of you, Amy; your better sense must tell you that it is the only truly kind
                    course, both towards Guy and yourself.’
                It was said in Philip's manner, which perhaps made it harder to bear; and Amy
                    could scarcely answer,—
                ‘He means it for the best.’
                ‘You would not have had him be silent?’
                ‘I don't know,’ said Amy, sadly. ‘No; he should have done something, but he might
                    have done it more kindly.’
                Laura endeavoured to persuade her that nothing could have been more kind and
                    judicious, and Amy sat dejectedly owning the good intention, and soothed by the
                    affection of her family; with the bitter suffering of her heart unallayed, with
                    all her fond, tender feelings torn at the
                    thought of what Guy must be enduring, and with the pain of knowing it was her
                    father's work. She had one comfort, in the certainty that Guy would bear it
                    nobly. She was happy to find her confidence confirmed by her mother and Charles;
                    and one thing she thought she need not give up, though she might no longer think
                    of him as her lover, she might be his Verena still, whether he knew it or not.
                    It could not be wrong to remember any one in her prayers, and to ask that he
                    might not be led into temptation, but have strength to abide patiently. That
                    helped her to feel that he was in the hands of One to whom the secrets of all
                    hearts are known; and a line of poetry seemed to be whispered in her ears, in
                    his own sweet tones,— 
                        ‘Wait, and the cloud shall roll away.’
                    
                So, after the first day, she went on pretty well. She was indeed silent and
                    grave, and no longer the sunbeam of Hollywell; but she took her share in what
                    was passing, and a common observer would hardly have remarked the submissive
                    melancholy of her manner. Her father was very affectionate, and often called her
                    his jewel of good girls; but he was too much afraid of women's tears to talk to
                    her about Guy, he left that to her mother: and Mrs. Edmonstone, having seen her
                    submit to her father's will, was unwilling to say more.
                She doubted whether it was judicious to encourage her in dwelling on Guy; for,
                    even supposing his character clear, they had offended him deeply, and released
                    him from any engagement to her, so that there was nothing to prevent him from
                    forming an attachment elsewhere. Mrs. Edmonstone did not think he would; but it
                    was better to say nothing about him, lest she should not speak prudently, and
                    only keep up the subject in Amy's mind.
                Charles stormed and wrangled, told Mr. Edmonstone ‘he was breaking his daughter's
                    heart, that was all;’ and talked of unfairness and injustice, till Mr. 
                        Ed-
                        Edmonstone
                     monstone vowed it was beyond all
                    bearing, that his own son should call him a tyrant, and accused Guy of
                    destroying all peace in his family.
                The replies to the letters came; some thought them satisfactory, and the others
                    wondered that they thought so. Mr. Wellwood gave the highest character of his
                    pupil, and could not imagine how any irregularities could be laid to his charge;
                    but when asked in plain terms how he disposed of his time, could only answer in
                    general, that he had friends and engagements of his own at St. Mildred's and its
                    neighbourhood, and had been several times at Mrs. Henley's and at Colonel
                    Harewood's. The latter place, unfortunately, was the very object of Philip's
                    suspicions; and thus the letter was anything but an exculpation.
                Guy wrote to Charles in the fulness of his heart, expressing gratitude for his
                    confidence and sympathy. He again begged for the supposed evidence of his
                    misconduct, declaring he could explain it, whatever it might be, and proceeded
                    to utter deep regrets for his hasty expressions.
                ‘I do not know what I may have said,’ he wrote; ‘I have no doubt it was
                    unpardonable, for I am sure my feelings were so, and that I deserve whatever I
                    have brought on myself. I can only submit to Mr. Edmonstone's sentence, and
                    trust that time will bring to his knowledge that I am innocent of what I am
                    accused of. He has every right to be displeased with me.’
                Charles pronounced this to be only Guy's way of abusing himself; but his father
                    saw in it a disguised admission of guilt. It was thought, also, to be bad sign
                    that Guy intended to remain at Southmoor till the end of the vacation, though
                    Charles argued that he must be somewhere; and if they wished to keep him out of
                    mischief, why exile him from Hollywell? He would hardly listen to his mother's
                    representation, that on Amy's account it would not be right to have him there
                    till the mystery was cleared up.
                
                He tried to stir his father up to go and see Guy at St. Mildred's, and
                    investigate matters for himself; but, though Mr. Edmonstone would have liked the
                    appearance of being important, this failed, because Philip declared it to be
                    unadvisable, knowing that it would be no investigation at all, and that his
                    uncle would be talked over directly. Next, Charles would have persuaded Philip
                    himself to go, but the arrangements about his leave did not make this
                    convenient; and it was put off till he should pay his farewell visit to his
                    sister, in October. Lastly, Charles wrote to Mrs. Henley, entreating her to give
                    him some information about this mysterious evidence which was wanting; but her
                    reply was a complete ‘set down’ for interference in a matter with which he had
                    no concern.
                He was very angry. In fact, the post seldom came in without occasioning a fresh
                    dispute, which only had the effect of keeping up the heat of Mr. Edmonstone's
                    displeasure, and making the whole house uncomfortable.
                Fretfulness and ill-humour seemed to have taken possession of Charles and his
                    father. Such a state of things had not prevailed since Guy's arrival: Hollywell
                    was hardly like the same house; Mrs. Edmonstone and Laura could do nothing
                    without being grumbled at or scolded by one or other of the gentlemen; even Amy
                    now and then came in for a little petulance on her father's part, and Charles
                    could not always forgive her for saying, in her mournful, submissive tome,—‘It
                    is of no use to talk about it.’
            
            
                
                CHAPTER XVIII.
                
                    
                        
                            
                                This just decree alone I know,
                                Man must be disciplined by woe,
                                To me, whate'er of good or ill
                                The future brings, since come it will,
                                I'll bow my spirit, and be still.
                            
                        
                        ÆSCHYLUS, (Anstice's Translation.)
                    
                
                GUY, in the meantime, was enduring the storm in loneliness, for
                    he was unwilling to explain the cause of his trouble to his companions. The only
                    occasion of the suspicions, which he could think of, was his request for the sum
                    of money; and this he could not mention to Mr. Wellwood, nor was he inclined to
                    make confidants of his other companions, though pleasant, right-minded
                    youths.
                He had only announced that he had had a letter which had grieved him
                    considerably, but of which he could not mention the contents; and as Harry
                    Graham, who knew something of the Broadstone neighbourhood, had picked up a
                    report that Sir Guy Morville was to marry Lady Eveleen de Courcy, there was an
                    idea among the party that there was some trouble in the way of his attachment.
                    He had once before been made, by some joke, to colour and look conscious; and
                    now this protected him from inconvenient questions, and accounted for his
                    depression. He was like what he had been on first coming to Hollywell—grave and
                    silent, falling into reveries when others were talking, and much given to long,
                    lonely wanderings. Accustomed as he had been in boyhood to a solitary life in
                    beautiful scenery, there was something in a fine 
                        land-
                        landscape
                     scape that was to him like a friend
                    and companion; and he sometimes felt that it would have been worse if he had
                    been in a dull, uniform country, instead of among mountain peaks and broad,
                    wooded valleys. Working hard, too, helped him not a little, and conic sections
                    served him almost as well as they served Laura.
                A more real help was the neighbourhood of Stylehurst. On the first Sunday after
                    receiving Mr. Edmonstone's letter, he went to church there, instead of with the
                    others, to St. Mildred's. They thought it was for the sake of the solitary walk;
                    but he had other reasons for the preference. In the first place it was a
                    Communion Sunday, and in the next, he could feel more kindly towards Philip
                    there, and he knew he needed all that could strengthen such a disposition.
                Many a question did he ask himself, to certify whether he wilfully entertained
                    malice or hatred, or any uncharitableness. It was a long, difficult examination;
                    but at its close, he felt convinced that, if such passions knocked at the door
                    of his heart, it was not at his own summons, and that he drove them away without
                    listening to them. And surely he might approach to gain the best aid in that
                    battle, especially as he was certain of his strong and deep repentance for his
                    fit of passion, and longing earnestly for the pledge of forgiveness.
                The pardon and peace he sought came to him, and in such sort that the comfort of
                    that day, when fresh from the first shock, and waiting in suspense for some new
                    blow, was such as never to be forgotten. They linked themselves with the grave
                    shade of the clustered grey columns, and the angel heads on roof of that old
                    church; with the long grass and tall yellow mullens among its churchyard graves,
                    and with the tints of the elm-trees that closed it in, their leaves in masses
                    either of green or yellow, and opening here and there to show the purple hills
                    beyond.
                He wandered in the churchyard between the services. All enmity to Philip was
                    absent now; and he felt as if it would hardly
                    return when he stood by the graves of the Archdeacon and of the two Frances
                    Morvilles, and thought what that spot was to his cousin. There were a few
                    flowers planted round Mrs. Morville's grave, but they showed that they had long
                    been neglected, and no such signs of care marked her daughter Fanny's. And when
                    Guy further thought of Mrs. Henley, and recollected how Philip had sacrificed
                    all his cherished prospects and hopes of distinction, and embraced an irksome
                    profession, for the sake of these two sisters, he did not find it difficult to
                    excuse the sternness, severity, and distrust which were an evidence how acutely
                    a warm heart had suffered.
                Though he suffered cruelly from being cut off from Amy, yet his reverence for her
                    helped him to submit. He had always felt as if she was too far above him; and
                    though he had, beyond his hopes, been allowed to aspire to the thought of her,
                    it was on trial, and his failure, his return to his old evil passions, had sunk
                    him beneath her. He shuddered to think of her being united to anything so unlike
                    herself, and which might cause her so much misery; it was wretchedness to think
                    that even now she might be suffering for him; and yet not for worlds would he
                    have lost the belief that she was so feeling, or the remembrance of the looks
                    which had shone on him so sweetly and timidly as she sat at her mother's feet;
                    though that remembrance was only another form of misery. But Amy would be
                    tranquil, pure and good, whatever became of him, and he should always be able to
                    think of her, looking like one of those peaceful spirits, with bending head,
                    folded hands, and a star on its brow, in the Paradiso of Flaxman.
                    Her serenity would be untouched; and though she might be lost to him, he could
                    still be content while he could look up at it through his turbid life. Better
                    she were lost to him than that her peace should be injured.
                He still, of course, earnestly longed to prove his innocence, though his hopes
                    lessened; for, as long as the evidence was
                    withheld, he had no chance. After writing as strongly as he could, he could do
                    no more, except watch for something that might unravel the mystery; and
                    Charles's warm sympathy and readiness to assist him were a great comfort.
                He had not seen his uncle again; perhaps Sebastian was ashamed to meet him after
                    their last encounter, and was still absent on his engagement; but the wife and
                    child were still at St. Mildred's, and one afternoon, when Guy had rather
                    unwillingly gone thither with Mr. Wellwood, he saw Mrs. Dixon sitting on one of
                    the benches which were placed on the paths cut out on the side of the hill,
                    looking very smart and smiling, among several persons of her own class.
                To be ashamed to recognise her was a weakness beneath him; he spoke to her, and
                    was leaving her, pluming herself on his notice, when he saw little Marianne's
                    blue eyes fixed wistfully upon him, and held out his hand to her. She ran up to
                    him joyfully, and he led her a few steps from her mother's party. ‘Well, little
                    one, how are you? I have your piece of spar quite safe. Have you said how d'ye
                    do to Bustle?’
                ‘Bustle! Bustle!’ called the soft voice; but it needed a whistle from his master
                    to bring him to be caressed by the little girl.
                ‘Have you been taking any more pleasant walks?’
                ‘Oh yes. We have been all round these pretty paths. And I should like to go to
                    the top of this great high hill, and see all round; but mamma says she has got a
                    bone in her leg, and cannot go.’
                ‘Do you think mamma would give you leave to go up with me? Should you like
                    it?’
                She coloured all over; too happy even to thank him.
                ‘Then,’ said Guy to his tutor, ‘I will meet you here when you have done your
                    business in the town, in an hour or so. Poor little thing, she has not many
                    pleasures.’
                Mrs. Dixon made no difficulty, and was so profuse in thanks that Guy got out of
                    her way as fast as he could, and was soon on the soft thymy grass of the hill
                        side, the little girl frisking about him
                    in great delight, playing with Bustle, and chattering merrily.
                Little Marianne was a delicate child, and her frolic did not last long. As the
                    ascent became steeper, her breath grew shorter, and she toiled on in a resolute
                    uncomplaining manner after his long, vigorous steps, till he looked round, and
                    seeing her panting far behind, turned to help her, lead her, and carry her till
                    the top was achieved, and the little girl stood on the topmost stone, gazing
                    round at the broad sunny landscape, with the soft green meadows, the harvest
                    fields, the woods in their gorgeous autumn raiment, and the moorland on the
                    other side, with its other peaks and cairns, brown with withered bracken, and
                    shadowed in moving patches by the floating clouds. The exhilarating wind brought
                    a colour into her pale cheeks, and her flossy curls were blowing over her
                    face.
                He watched her in silence, pleased and curious to observe how beautiful a scene
                    struck the childish eye of the little Londoner. The first thing she said, after
                    three or four minutes' contemplation—a long time for such a child—was, ‘Oh! I
                    never saw anything so pretty!’ then presently after, ‘oh! I wish little brother
                    Felix was here!’
                ‘This is a pleasant place to think about your little brother,’ said Guy, kindly;
                    and she looked up in his face, and exclaimed, ‘Oh! do you know about Felix?’
                ‘You shall tell me,’ said Guy. ‘Here, sit on my knee, and rest after your
                    scramble.’
                ‘Mamma never lets me talk of Felix, because it makes her cry,’ said Marianne;
                    ‘but I wish it sometimes.’
                Her little heart was soon open. It appeared that Felix was the last who had died,
                    the nearest in age to Marianne, and her favourite playfellow. She told of some
                    of their sports in their London home, speaking of them with eagerness and
                    fondness that showed what joys they had been, though to Guy they seemed but the
                    very proof of dreariness and dinginess. She talked of walks to school, when Felix would tell what he would
                    do when he was a man, and how he took care of her at the crossings, and how rude
                    boys used to drive them, and how they would look in at the shop windows and
                    settle what they would buy if they were rich. Then she talked of his being
                    ill—ill so very long, how he sat in his little chair, and could not play, and
                    then always lay in bed, and she liked to sit by him there; but at last he died,
                    and they carried him away in a great black coffin, and he would never come back
                    again. But it was so dull now, there was no one to play with her.
                Though the little girl did not cry, she looked very mournful, and Guy tried to
                    comfort her, but she did not understand him. ‘Going to heaven’ only conveyed to
                    her a notion of death and separation; and this phrase, together with a vague
                    idea who had made her, and that she ought to be good, seemed to be the extent of
                    the poor child's religious knowledge. She hardly ever had been at church; and
                    though she had read one or two Bible stories, it seemed to have been from their
                    having been used as lessons at school. She had a dim notion that good people
                    read the Bible, and there was one on the little table at home, with the
                    shell-turkey-cock standing upon it, and mamma read it when Felix died; but it
                    was a big book, and the shell-turkey-cock always stood upon it; in short, it
                    seemed only connected with mamma's tears and the loss of her brother.
                Guy was very much shocked, and so deep in thought that he could hardly talk to
                    the child in their progress down the hill; but she was just so tired as to be
                    inclined to silence, and quite happy clinging to his hand, till he delivered her
                    over to her mother at the foot of the hill, and went to join his tutor, at the
                    place appointed.
                ‘Wellwood,’ said he, breaking silence, when they had walked about half way back
                    to the farm, ‘do you think your cousin would do me a great kindness? You saw
                    that child? Well, if the parents consent, it would be the greatest charity on earth if Miss Wellwood would
                    receive her into her school.’
                ‘On what terms? What sort of an education is she to have?’
                ‘The chief thing she wants is to be taught Christianity, poor child; the rest
                    Miss Wellwood may settle. She is my first cousin. I don't know whether you are
                    acquainted with our family history?’ and he went on to explain as much as was
                    needful. It ended in a resolution that if Miss Wellwood would undertake the
                    charge, the proposal should be made to Mrs. Dixon.
                It was a way of assisting his relations likely to do real good, and on the other
                    hand, he would be able, under colour of the payment for the child, to further
                    Miss Wellwood's schemes, and give her the interest of the thousand pounds, until
                    his five and twentieth year might put his property in his own power.
                Miss Wellwood readily consented, much pleased with the simplicity and absence of
                    false shame he showed in the whole transaction, and very anxious for the good of
                    a child in a class so difficult to reach. He next went to Mrs. Dixon, expecting
                    more difficulty with her, but he found none. She thought it better Marianne
                    should live at St. Mildred's than die in London, and was ready to catch at the
                    prospect of her being fitted for a governess. Indeed, she was so strongly
                    persuaded that the rich cousin might make Marianne's fortune, that she would
                    have been very unwilling to interfere with the fancy he had taken for her.
                Little Marianne was divided between fear of leaving mamma and liking for St.
                    Mildred's, but her first interview with Miss Wellwood, and Miss Jane's showing
                    her a little white bed, quite turned the scale in their favour. Before the time
                    came for Guy's return to Oxford, he had seen her settled, heard her own account
                    of her happy life, and had listened to Miss Jane Wellwood's delight in her sweet
                    temper and good disposition.
                Those thousand pounds; Guy considered again and
                    again whether he could explain their destination, and whether this would clear
                    him. It seemed to him only a minor charge, and besides his repugnance to mention
                    such a design, he saw too many obstacles in his way. Captain Morville and his
                    sister were the very persons from whom Miss Wellwood's project was to be kept
                    secret. Besides, what would be gained? It was evident that Guy's own assertions
                    were doubted, and he could bring no confirmation of them; he had never spoken of
                    his intention to his tutor, and Mr. Wellwood could, therefore, say nothing in
                    his favour. If Mr. Edmonstone alone had been concerned, or if this had been the
                    only accusation, Guy might have tried to explain it; but with Philip he knew it
                    would be useless, and therefore would not enter on the subject. He could only
                    wait patiently.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER XIX.
                
                    
                        
                            
                                Most delicately, hour by hour,
                                He canvassed human mysteries,
                                And stood aloof from other minds.
                                Himself unto himself he sold,
                                Upon himself, himself did feed,
                                Quiet, dispassionate, and cold,
                                With chiselled features clear and sleek.
                            
                        
                        —TENNYSON.
                    
                
                GUY had been about a week at Oxford, when one evening, as he
                    was sitting alone in his rooms, he received an unexpected visit from Captain
                    Morville. He was glad, for he thought a personal interview would remove all
                    misconstructions, and held out his hand cordially, saying:
                ‘You here, Philip? When did you come?’
                ‘Half an hour ago. I am on my way to spend a week with the Thorndales. I go on
                    to-morrow to my sister's.’
                While speaking, Philip was surveying the apartment, for he held that a man's room
                    is generally an indication of his disposition, and assuredly there was a great
                    deal of character in his own, with the scrupulous neatness and fastidious taste
                    of its arrangements. Here, he thought, he could not fail to see traces of his
                    cousin's habits, but he was obliged to confess to himself that there was very
                    little to guide him. The furniture was strictly as its former occupant had left
                    it, only rather the worse for wear, and far from being in order. The chairs were so heaped with books and
                    papers, that Guy had to make a clearance of one before his visitor could sit
                    down, but there was nothing else to complain of, not even a trace of cigars; but
                    knowing him to be a great reader and lover of accomplishments, Philip wondered
                    that the only decorations were Laura's drawing of Sintram, and a little print of
                    Redclyffe, and the books were chiefly such as were wanted for his studies; the
                    few others having for the most part the air of old library books, as if he had
                    sent for them from Redclyffe. Was this another proof that he had some way of
                    frittering away his money with nothing to show for it? A Sophocles and a lexicon
                    were open before him on the table, and a blotting book, which he closed, but not
                    before Philip had caught sight of what looked like verses.
                Neither did his countenance answer Philip's expectations. It had not his usual
                    bright lively expression; there was a sadness which made him smile like a gleam
                    on a showery day, instead of constant sunshine; but there was neither
                    embarrassment nor defiance, and the gleamlike smile was there, as with a frank,
                    confiding tone, he said:
                ‘This is very kind of you, to come and see what you can do for me.’
                Philip was by no means prepared to be thus met halfway, but he thought Guy wanted
                    to secure him as an intercessor, and hardened himself into righteous
                    severity.
                ‘No one can be more willing to help you than I, but you must, in the first place,
                    help yourself.’
                Instantly the sedate measured tone made Guy's heart and head throb with
                    impatience, awakening all the former memories so hardly battled down; but with
                    the impulse of anger came the thought, ‘Here it is again! If I don't keep it
                    down now, I am undone! The enemy will seize me again!’ He forced himself not to
                    interrupt, while Philip went calmly on.
                ‘While you are not open, nothing can be done.’
                
                ‘My only wish, my only desire, is to be open,’ said Guy, speaking fast and low,
                    and repressing the feeling, which, nevertheless, affected his voice; ‘but the
                    opportunity of explanation has never been given me.’
                ‘You need complain of that no longer. I am here to convey to my uncle any
                    explanation you may wish to address to him. I will do my best to induce him to
                    attend to it favourably, but he is deeply offended and hurt by what has
                    passed.’
                ‘I know, I know,’ said Guy, colouring deeply, and all irritation disappearing
                    from voice and manner; ‘I know there is no excuse for me. I can only repeat that
                    I am heartily sorry for whatever I may have said, either of him or of you.’
                ‘Of course,’ returned Philip, ‘I should never think of resenting what you may
                    have said in a moment of irritation, especially as you express regret for it.
                    Consider it as entirely overlooked on my part.’
                Guy was nearly choked in uttering a ‘Thank you,’ which did not sound, after all,
                    much like acceptance of forgiveness.
                ‘Now to the real matter at issue,’ said Philip; ‘the application for the money,
                    which so amazed Mr. Edmonstone.’
                ‘I do not see that it is the point,’ said Guy; ‘I wanted it for a scheme of my
                    own; he did not think fit to let me have it, so there is an end of the
                    matter.’
                ‘Mr. Edmonstone does not think so. He wishes to be convinced that you have not
                    spent it beforehand.’
                ‘What would you have beyond my word and honour that I have not?’ exclaimed
                    Guy.
                ‘Far be it from me to say that he doubts it,’ said Philip; and as at those words
                    the flash of the Morville eye darted lightning, he expected that the next
                    moment, ‘Do you?’ would be thundered forth, and he could not, with truth, answer
                    ‘No;’ but it was one of his maxims that a man need never be forced into an open
                    quarrel, and he tranquilly continued: ‘but it
                    is better not to depend entirely on assertion. Why do you not bring him full
                    proofs of your good intention, and thus restore yourself to his confidence?’
                ‘I have said that I am bound not to mention the purpose.’
                ‘Unfortunate!’ said Philip; then, while Guy bit his lip till it bled, the pain
                    really a relief, by giving some vent to his anger at the implied doubt, he went
                    on: ‘If it is impossible to clear this up, the next advice I would give is, that
                    you should show what your expenditure has been; lay your accounts before him,
                    and let them justify you.’
                Most people would have resented this as an impertinent proposal, were it only
                    that doing so would have served to conceal the awkward fact that the accounts
                    had not been kept at all. Guy had never been taught to regard exactness in this
                    respect as a duty, had no natural taste for precision, and did not feel
                    responsible to any person; nor, if he had kept any, could he have shown them,
                    without exposing his uncle. To refuse would, however, be a subterfuge, and after
                    a moment, he made an effort, and confessed he had none to show; though he knew
                    Philip would despise him for it as a fool, and probably take it as positive
                    evidence against him.
                It would have been more bearable if Philip would but have said ‘How foolish,’
                    instead of drily repeating, ‘unfortunate!’
                After a pause, during which Guy was not sufficiently master of himself to speak,
                    Philip added—‘Then this matter of the thousand pounds is to be passed over? You
                    have no explanation to offer?’
                ‘No:’ and again he paused. ‘When my word is not accepted, I have no more to say.
                    But this is not the point. What I would know is, what are the calumnies that
                    accuse me of having gamed? If you really wish to do me a service, you will give
                    me an opportunity of answering these precious proofs.’
                
                ‘I will,’ answered Philip; who could venture on doing so himself, though, for his
                    sister's sake, it was unsafe to trust Mr. Edmonstone, with whom what was not an
                    absolute secret was not a secret at all. ‘My uncle knows that a thirty pound
                    cheque of his, in your name, was paid by you to a notorious gamester.’
                Guy did not shrink, as he simply answered—‘It is true.’
                ‘Yet you have neither played, nor betted, nor done anything that could come under
                    the definition of gambling?’
                ‘No.’
                ‘Then why this payment?’
                ‘I cannot explain that. I know appearances are against me,’ replied Guy steadily,
                    and with less irritation than he had hitherto shown. ‘I once thought my simple
                    word would have sufficed; but since it seems that will not do, I will not again
                    make what you call assertions.’
                ‘In fact, while you profess a desire to be open and sincere, a mystery appears at
                    every turn. What would you have us do?’
                ‘As you think fit,’ he answered proudly.
                Philip had been used to feel men's wills and characters bend and give way beneath
                    his superior force of mind. They might, like Charles, chafe and rage, but his
                    calmness always gave him the ascendant almost without exertion, and few people
                    had ever come into contact with him without a certain submission of will or
                    opinion. With Guy alone it was not so; he had been sensible of it once or twice
                    before; he had no mastery, and could no more bend that spirit than a bar of
                    steel. This he could not bear, for it obliged him to be continually making
                    efforts to preserve his own sense of superiority.
                ‘Since this is your ultimatum,’ he said—‘since you deny your confidence, and
                    refuse any reply to these charges, you have no right to complain of suspicion. I
                    shall do my best, both as your true friend, and as acting with your guardian's
                    authority, to discover all that may lead to
                    the elucidation of the mystery. In the first place, I am desired to make every
                    inquiry here as to your conduct and expenditure. I hope they will prove
                    satisfactory.’
                ‘I am very much obliged to you,’ answered Guy, his voice stern and dignified; and
                    the smile that curled his lip was like Philip's own.
                Philip was positively annoyed, and desirous to say something to put him down, but
                    he had not committed himself by any vehemence, and Philip was too cool and wise
                    to compromise his own dignity; so he rose to go, saying, ‘Good night! I am sorry
                    I cannot induce you to act in the only way that can right you.’
                ‘Good night!’ replied Guy, in the same dignified manner in which he had spoken
                    ever since his passion had been surmounted.
                They parted, each feeling that matters were just where they were before. Philip
                    went back to his inn, moralizing on the pride and perverseness which made it
                    impossible to make any impression on a Redclyffe Morville, whom not even the
                    fear of detection could lead to submission.
                Next morning, while Philip was hastily breakfasting, the door opened, and Guy
                    entered, pale and disturbed, as if he had been awake all night.
                ‘Philip!’ said he, in his frank, natural voice, ‘I don't think we parted last
                    night as your good intentions deserved.’
                ‘O, ho!’ thought Philip, ‘the fear of an investigation has brought him to
                    reason;’ and he said, ‘Well, I am very glad you see things in a truer light this
                    morning;’ then asked if he had breakfasted. He had; and his cousin added,
                ‘Have you anything to say on the matter we discussed last night?’
                ‘No. I can only repeat that I am not guilty, and wait for time to show my
                    innocence. I only came to see you once more, that I might feel we parted
                    friends.’
                
                ‘I shall always hope to be a true friend.’
                ‘I did not come here for altercation,’ said Guy (an answer rather to the spirit
                    than the words), ‘so I will say no more. If you wish to see me again, you will
                    find me in my rooms. Good bye.’
                Philip was puzzled. He wondered whether Guy had come wishing to propitiate him,
                    but had found pride indomitable at the last moment; or whether he had been
                    showing himself too severely just to admit entreaty. He would be able to judge
                    better after he had made his inquiries, and he proceeded with them at once. He
                    met with no such replies as he expected. Every one spoke of Sir Guy Morville in
                    high terms, strict in his habits of application, and irreproachable in conduct.
                    He was generally liked, and some regret was expressed that he lived in so
                    secluded a manner, forming so few intimacies; but no one seemed to think it
                    possible that anything wrong could be imputed to him. Philip could even perceive
                    that there was some surprise that such inquiries should be made at all,
                    especially by so young a man as himself. Mr. Wellwood, the person whom he most
                    wished to see, was not at Oxford, but was at home preparing for his
                    ordination.
                Nor could Philip get nearer to the solution of the mystery when he went to the
                    tradesmen, who were evidently as much surprised as the tutors, and said he
                    always paid in ready money. Captain Morville felt like a lawyer whose case is
                    breaking down, no discoveries made, nothing done; but he was not one whit
                    convinced of his cousin's innocence, thinking the college authorities blind and
                    careless, and the tradesmen combined to conceal their extortions, or else that
                    the mischief had been done at St. Mildred's. He was particularly provoked when
                    he remembered Guy's invitation to him to come to his rooms, knowing, as he must
                    have done, what would be the result of his inquiry.
                Philip was conscious that it would have been kind to have gone to say that, so
                    far, he had found nothing amiss, but he did
                    not like giving Guy this passing triumph. It made no difference in his real
                    opinion; and why renew a useless discussion? He persuaded himself that he had
                    left himself no time, and should miss the train, and hastened off to the
                    station, where he had to wait a quarter of an hour, consoling himself with
                    reflecting—
                ‘After all, though I might have gone to him, it would have been useless. He is
                    obstinate, and occasions of irritating his unfortunate temper are above all to
                    be avoided.’
                One short year after, what would not Philip have given for that quarter of an
                    hour.
                By six o'clock he was at St. Mildred's, greeted with delight by his sister, and
                    with cordiality by Dr. Henley. They were both proud of him, and every tender
                    feeling his sister had, was for Philip, her pet and her pupil in his childhood,
                    and her most valued companion and counsellor through her early womanhood.
                She had a picked dinner-party to meet him, for she knew the doctor's conversation
                    was not exactly the thing to entertain him through a whole evening, and the
                    guests might well think they had never seen a handsomer or more clever brother
                    and sister than Mrs. Henley and Captain Morville. The old county families, if
                    they did wonder at her marriage, were always glad to meet her brother, and it
                    was a great pleasure to him to see old friends.
                Only once did his sister, in the course of the evening, make him feel the
                    difference of their sentiments, and that was about Miss Wellwood. Philip
                    defended her warmly; and when he heard that there was a plan getting up for
                    excluding her from the hospital, he expressed strong disapprobation at the time;
                    and after the guests were gone, spoke upon the subject with his sister and her
                    husband. The doctor entered into no party questions, and had only been stirred
                    up to the opposition by his wife; he owned that the Miss Wellwoods had done a
                    great deal of good, and made the nurses do their duty better than he had ever known, and was quite ready to withdraw his
                    opposition. Mrs. Henley argued about opinions, but Philip was a match for her in
                    her own line; and the end of it was, that though she would not allow herself to
                    be convinced, and shook her head at her brother's way of thinking, he knew he
                    had prevailed, and that Miss Wellwood would be unmolested.
                There was not another person in the world to whom Margaret would have yielded;
                    and it served to restore him to the sense of universal dominion which had been a
                    little shaken by his conversation with Guy.
                ‘Sir Guy was a great deal with the Wellwoods,’ said Mrs. Henley.
                ‘Was he, indeed?’
                ‘O, you need not think of that. It would be too absurd. The youngest
                    must be twice his age.’
                ‘I was not thinking of any such thing,’ said Philip, smiling, as he thought of
                    the very different course Guy's affections had taken.
                ‘I did hear he was to marry Lady Eveleen de Courcy. Is there anything in that
                    report?’
                ‘No, certainly not.’
                ‘I should pity the woman who married him, after the specimen I saw of his
                    temper.’
                ‘Poor boy!’ said Philip.
                ‘Lady Eveleen has been a great deal at Hollywell, has she not? I rather wondered
                    my aunt should like to have her there, considering all things.’
                ‘What things, sister?’
                ‘Considering what a catch he would be for one of the Edmonstone girls.’
                ‘I thought you had just been pitying the woman who should marry him. Perhaps my
                    aunt had Lady Eveleen there to act as a screen for her own daughters.’
                ‘That our good-natured aunt should have acted with such ultra-prudence!’ said
                    Margaret, laughing at his grave ironical tone. ‘Lady Eveleen is very pretty, is
                    she not? A mere beauty, I believe?’
                
                ‘Just so; she is much admired; but Guy is certainly not inclined to fall in love
                    with her.’
                ‘I should have thought him the very man to fall in love young, like his father.
                    Do you think there is any chance for either of the Edmonstones? Laura's beauty
                    he spoke of, but it was not in a very lover-like way. Do you admire Laura so
                    much?’
                ‘She is very pretty.’
                ‘And little Amy?’
                ‘She is a mere child, and will hardly ever be anything more; but she is a very
                    good little amiable thing.’
                ‘I wish poor Charles's temper was improved.’
                ‘So do I; but it is very far from improvement at present, in consequence of his
                    zeal for Guy. Guy has been very attentive and good natured to him, and has quite
                    won his heart; so that I should positively honour him for his championship if it
                    was not in great degree out of opposition to his father and myself. To-morrow,
                    Margaret, you must give me some guide to the most probable quarters for learning
                    anything respecting this poor boy's follies.’
                Mrs. Henley did her best in that way, and Philip followed up his inquiries with
                    great ardour, but still unsuccessfully. Jack White, the hero of the draft, was
                    not at St. Mildred's, nor likely to be heard of again till the next races; and
                    whether Sir Guy had been on the race-ground at all was a doubtful point. Next,
                    Philip walked to Stylehurst, to call on Colonel Harewood, and see if he could
                    learn anything in conversation with him; but the Colonel did not seem to know
                    anything, and his sons were not at home. Young Morville was, he thought, a
                    spirited lad, very good-natured; he had been out shooting once or twice with
                    Tom, and had a very fine spaniel. If he had been at the races, the Colonel did
                    not know it; he had had some thoughts of asking him to join their party, but had
                    been prevented.
                This was no reason, thought Philip, why Guy might not have been with Tom Harewood
                    without the 
                        Colo-
                        Colonel's
                     nel's knowledge. Tom was just the
                    man to lead him amongst those who were given to betting; he might have been
                    drawn in, and, perhaps, he had given some pledge of payment when he was of age,
                    or, possibly, obtained an immediate supply of money from the old steward at
                    Redclyffe, who was devotedly attached to him. If so, Philip trusted to be able
                    to detect it from the accounts; on the other supposition, there was no hope of
                    discovery.
                The conversation with Colonel Harewood kept him so late that he had no time for
                    going, as usual, to his old haunts, at Stylehurst; nor did he feel inclined just
                    then to revive the saddening reflections they excited. He spent the evening in
                    talking over books with his sister, and the next day proceeded on his journey to
                    Thorndale Park.
                This was one of the places where he was always the most welcome, ever since he
                    had been a school-boy, received in a way especially flattering, considering that
                    the friendship was entirely owing to the uncompromising good sense and real
                    kindness with which he had kept in order the follies of his former fag.
                Charles might laugh, and call them the young man and young man's companion, and
                    Guy more classically term them the pious Æneas and his fidus Achates, but it was
                    a friendship that did honour to both; and the value that the Thorndales set upon
                    Captain Morville was not misplaced, and scarcely over-rated. Not particularly
                    clever themselves, they the more highly appreciated his endowments, and were
                    proud that ‘James’ had been able to make such a friend; for they knew, as well
                    as the rest of the world, that Captain Morville was far from seeking the
                    acquaintance for the sake of their situation in life, but that it was from real
                    liking and esteem. How far this esteem was gained by the deference the whole
                    family paid to his opinion, was another question; at any rate, the courting was
                    from them.
                The Miss Thorndales deemed Captain Morville the
                    supreme authority in drawing, literature, and ecclesiastical architecture; and
                    whenever a person came in their way who was thought handsome, always pronounced
                    that he was not by any means equal to James's friend. Lady Thorndale delighted
                    to talk over James with him, and thank him for his kindness; and Lord Thorndale,
                    rather a pompous man himself, liked his somewhat stately manners, and talked
                    politics with him, sincerely wishing he was his neighbour at Redclyffe, and
                    calculating how much good he would do there. Philip listened with interest to
                    accounts of how the Thorndale and Morville influence had always divided the
                    borough of Moorworth, and, if united, might dispose of it at will, and returned
                    evasive answers to questions what the young heir of Redclyffe might be likely to
                    do.
                James Thorndale drove his friend to Redclyffe, as Philip had authority from Mr.
                    Edmonstone to transact any business that might be required with Markham, the
                    steward; and, as has been said before, he expected to discover in the accounts
                    something that might explain why Guy had ceased to press for the thousand
                    pounds. However, he could find nothing amiss in them, though—bearing in mind
                    that it is less easy to detect the loss of a score of sheep than of one—he
                    subjected them to a scrutiny which seemed by no means agreeable to the gruff old
                    grumbling steward. He also walked about the park, saw to the marking of certain
                    trees that were injuring each other; and finding that there was a
                    misunderstanding between Markham and the new rector, Mr. Ashford, about certain
                    parish matters, where the clergyman was certainly right, he bore down Markham's
                    opposition with Mr. Edmonstone's weight, and felt he was doing good service.
                He paused at the gate, and looked back at the wide domain and fine old house. He
                    pitied them, and the simple-hearted, honest tenantry, for being the heritage of
                    such a family, and the possession of one so likely to misuse them, instead of training them into the means
                    of conferring benefits on them, on his country. What would not Philip himself do
                    if those lands were his,—just what was needed to give his talents free scope?
                    and what would it be to see his beautiful Laura their mistress?
            
            
                
                CHAPTER XX.
                
                    
                        
                            
                                The longing for ignoble things,
                                The strife for triumph more than truth,
                                The hardening of the heart, that brings
                                Irreverence for the dreams of youth.
                            
                        
                        —LONGFELLOW.
                    
                
                AFTER his week at Thorndale Park, Captain Morville returned to
                    make his farewell visit at Hollywell, before joining his regiment at Cork,
                    whence it was to sail for the Mediterranean. He reckoned much on this visit, for
                    not even Laura herself could fathom the depth of his affection for her,
                    strengthening in the recesses where he so sternly concealed it, and viewing her
                    ever as more faultless since she had been his own. While she was his noble,
                    strong-minded, generous, fond Laura, he could bear with his disappointment in
                    his sister, with the loss of his home, and with the trials that had made him a
                    grave, severe man. She had proved the strength of her mind by the self-command
                    he had taught her, and for which he was especially grateful to her, as it made
                    him safer and more unconstrained, able to venture on more demonstration than in
                    those early days when every look had made her blush and tremble.
                Mr. Edmonstone brought the carriage to fetch him from the station, and quickly
                    began,—
                ‘I suppose, as you have not written, you have found nothing out?’
                ‘Nothing.’
                
                ‘And you could do nothing with him. Eh?’
                ‘No; I could not get a word of explanation, nor break through the fence of pride
                    and reserve. I must do him the justice to say that he bears the best of
                    characters at Oxford; and if there were any debts I could not get at them from
                    the tradesmen.’
                ‘Well, well, say no more about it; he is an ungrateful young dog, and I am sick
                    of it. I only wish I could wash my hands of him altogether. It was mere folly to
                    expect any of that set could ever come to good. There's everything going wrong
                    all at once now; poor little Amy breaking her heart after him, and, worse than
                    all, there's poor Charlie laid up again,’ said Mr. Edmonstone, one of the most
                    affectionate people in the world; but his maundering mood making him speak of
                    Charles's illness as if he only regarded it as an additional provocation for
                    himself.
                ‘Charles ill!’ exclaimed Philip.
                ‘Yes; another of those formations in the joint. I hoped and trusted that was all
                    over now; but he is as bad as ever,—has not been able to move for a week, and
                    goodness knows when he will again.’
                ‘Indeed! I am very sorry. Is there as much pain as before?’
                ‘Oh, yes. He has not slept a wink these four nights. Mayerne talks of opium; but
                    he says he won't have it till he has seen you, he is so anxious about this
                    unlucky business. If anything could persuade me to have Guy back again it would
                    be that this eternal fretting after him is so bad for poor Charlie.’
                ‘It is on Amy's account that it is impossible to have him here,’ said Philip.
                ‘Ay! He shall never set eyes on Amy again unless all this is cleared up, which it
                    never will be, as I desire mamma to tell her. By-the-bye, Philip, Amy said
                    something of your having a slip with Charles on the stairs.’
                ‘There was very nearly an accident; but I believed he was not hurt. I hope it has
                    nothing to do with this illness?’
                
                ‘He says it was all his own fault,’ said Mr. Edmonstone, ‘and that he should have
                    been actually down but for you.’
                ‘But is it really thought it can have caused this attack?’
                ‘I can hardly suppose so; but Thompson fancies there may have been some jar.
                    However, don't distress yourself, I dare say it would have come on all the
                    same.’
                Philip did not like to be forgiven by Mr. Edmonstone, and there was something
                    very annoying in having this mischance connected with his name, though without
                    his fault; nor did he wish Charles to have the kind of advantage over him that
                    might be derived from seeming to pass over his share in the misfortune.
                When they arrived at Hollywell, it was twilight, but no one was in the
                    drawing-room, generally so cheerful at that time of day; the fire had lately
                    been smothered with coals, and looked gloomy and desolate. Mr. Edmonstone left
                    Philip there, and ran up to see how Charles was, and soon after Laura came in,
                    sprang to his side, and held his hand in both hers.
                ‘You bring no good news?’ said she, sadly, as she read the answer in his face.
                    ‘Oh! how I wish you had. It would be such a comfort now. You have heard about
                    poor Charlie?’
                ‘Yes; and very sorry I am. But, Laura, is it really thought that accident could
                    have occasioned it?’
                ‘Dr. Mayerne does not think so, only Mr. Thompson talked of remote causes, when
                    Amy mentioned it. I don't believe it did any harm, and Charlie himself says you
                    saved him from falling down stairs.’
                Philip had begun to give Laura his version of the accident, as he had already
                    done to her father, when Mrs. Edmonstone came down, looking harassed and
                    anxious. She told her nephew that Charles was very desirous to see him, and sent
                    him up at once.
                There was a fire in the dressing-room, and the door was open into the little
                    room, which was only lighted by a lamp on a
                    small table, where Amy was sitting at work. After shaking hands, she went away,
                    leaving him alone with Charles, who lay in his narrow bed against the wall,
                    fixed in one position, his forehead contracted with pain, his eyelids red and
                    heavy from sleeplessness, his eyes very quick and eager, and his hands and arms
                    thrown restlessly outside the coverings.
                ‘I am very sorry to find you here,’ said Philip, coming up to him, and taking,
                    rather than receiving, his hot, limp hand. ‘Is the pain very bad?’
                ‘That is a matter of course,’ said Charles, in a sharp, quick manner, his voice
                    full of suffering. ‘I want to hear what you have been doing at Oxford and St.
                    Mildred's.’
                ‘I am sorry I do not bring the tidings you wish.’
                ‘I did not expect you would. I know you too well; but I want to hear what you
                    have been doing—what he said,’ answered Charles, in short, impatient
                    sentences.
                ‘It can be of no use, Charlie. You are not in a state to enter on agitating
                    subjects.’
                ‘I tell you I will hear all,’ returned Charles, with increased asperity. ‘I know
                    you will say nothing to his advantage that you can help, but still I know you
                    will speak what you think the truth, and I want to judge for myself.’
                ‘You speak as if I was not acting for his good.’
                ‘Palaver!’ cried Charles, fully sensible of the advantage his illness gave him.
                    ‘I want the facts. Begin at the beginning. Sit down—there's a chair by you. Now
                    tell me, where did you find him?’
                Philip could not set Charles down in his present state, and was obliged to submit
                    to a cross-examination, in which he showed no abatement of his natural
                    acuteness, and, unsparing as he always was, laid himself under no restraint at
                    all. Philip was compelled to give a full history of his researches; and if he
                    had afforded no triumph to Guy, Charles revenged him.
                ‘Pray, what did Guy say when he heard the result of this fine voyage of
                    discovery?’
                
                ‘I did not see him again.’
                ‘Not see him! not tell him he was so far justified!’
                ‘I had no time—at least I thought not. It would have been useless, for while
                    these mysteries continue, my opinion is unchanged, and there was no benefit in
                    renewing vain disputes.’
                ‘Say no more!’ exclaimed Charles. ‘You have said all I expected, and more too. I
                    gave you credit for domineering and prejudice, now I see it is malignity.’
                As he spoke, Laura entered from the dressing-room, and stood aghast at the words,
                    and then looked imploringly at her cousin. Dr. Mayerne was following her, and
                    Charles called out,—
                ‘Now, doctor, give me as much opium as you please. I only want to be stupefied
                    till the world has turned round, and then you may wake me.’
                Philip shook hands with Dr. Mayerne, and, without betraying a shade of annoyance,
                    wished Charles good night; but Charles had drawn the coverings over his head,
                    and would not hear him.
                ‘Poor fellow!’ said Philip to Laura, when they were out of the room. ‘He is a
                    very generous partizan, and excitement and suffering make him carry his zeal to
                    excess.’
                ‘I knew you could not be angry with him.’
                ‘I could not be angry at this time at far more provocation given by any one
                    belonging to you, Laura.’
                Laura's heart had that sensation which the French call se
                        serrer, as she heard him allude to the long separation to which
                    there seemed no limit; but they could say no more.
                ‘Amy,’ said Charles, when she returned to him after dinner, ‘I am more than ever
                    convinced that things will right themselves. I never saw prejudice more at
                    fault.’
                ‘Did he tell you all about it?’
                ‘I worked out of him all I could, and it is my belief Guy had the best of it. I
                    only wonder he did not horsewhip Philip round the quadrangle. I wish he
                    had.’
                
                ‘Oh, no, no! But he controlled himself?’
                ‘If he had not we should have heard of it fast enough;’ and Charles told what he
                    had been able to gather, while she sat divided between joy and pain.
                Philip saw very little more of Charles. He used to come to ask him how he was
                    once a-day, but never received any encouragement to lengthen his visit. These
                    gatherings in the diseased joint were always excessively painful, and were very
                    long in coming to the worst, as well as afterwards in healing; and through the
                    week of Philip's stay at Hollywell Charles was either in a state of great
                    suffering, or else heavy and confused with opiates. His mother's whole time and
                    thoughts were absorbed in him; she attended to him day and night, and could
                    hardly spare a moment for anything else. Indeed, with all her affection and
                    anxiety for the young lovers, Charles was so entirely her engrossing object,
                    that her first feeling of disappointment at the failure of Philip's journey of
                    investigation was because it would grieve Charlie. She could not think about Guy
                    just then, and for Amy there was nothing for it but patience; and, good little
                    creature, it was very nice to see her put her own troubles aside, and be so
                    cheerful a nurse to her brother. She was almost always in his room, for he liked
                    to have her there, and she could not conquer a certain shrinking from
                    Philip.
                Laura had once pleaded hard and earnestly for Guy with Philip, but all in vain;
                    she was only taught to think the case more hopeless than before. Laura was a
                    very kind nurse and sister, but she could better be spared than her mother and
                    Amy, so that it generally fell to her lot to be downstairs, making the
                    drawing-room habitable. Dr. Mayerne, whenever Charles was ill, used to be more
                    at Hollywell than at his own house, and there were few days that he did not dine
                    there. When Amy was out of the way, Philip used to entertain them with long
                    accounts of Redclyffe, how fine a place it was, how far the estate reached on the Moorworth road, of its capacities for
                    improvement, wastes of moorland to be enclosed or planted, magnificent timber
                    needing nothing but thinning. He spoke of the number of tenantry, and the
                    manorial rights, and the influence in both town and county, which, in years gone
                    by, had been proved to the utmost in many a fierce struggle with the house of
                    Thorndale. Sir Guy Morville might be one of the first men in England if he were
                    not wanting to himself. Mr. Edmonstone enjoyed such talk, for it made him revel
                    in the sense of his own magnanimity in refusing his daughter to the owner of all
                    this; and Laura sometimes thought how Philip would have graced such a position,
                    yet how much greater it was to rest entirely on his own merits.
                ‘Ah, my fine fellow!’ muttered Dr. Mayerne to himself one day, when Philip and
                    his uncle had left the room, just after a discourse of this kind, ‘I see you
                    have not forgotten you are the next heir.’
                Laura coloured with indignation, exclaimed, ‘Oh!’ then checked herself, as if
                    such an aspersion was not worthy of her taking the trouble to refute it.
                ‘Ah! Miss Edmonstone, I did not know you were there.’
                ‘Yes, you were talking to yourself, just as if you were at home,’ said Charlotte,
                    who was specially pert to the old doctor, because she knew herself to be a great
                    pet. ‘You were telling some home truths to make Laura angry.’
                ‘Well, he would make a very good use of it if he had it,’ said the doctor.
                ‘Now you'll make me angry,’ said Charlotte; ‘and you have not mended matters with
                    Laura. She thinks nothing short of four-syllabled words good enough for
                    Philip.’
                ‘Hush! nonsense, Charlotte!’ said Laura, much annoyed.
                ‘There, Charlotte, she is avenging herself on you because she can't scold me,’
                    said the doctor, pretending to whisper.
                
                ‘Charlotte is only growing more wild than ever for want of mamma,’ said Laura,
                    trying to laugh it off; but there was so much annoyance evident about her, that
                    Dr. Mayerne said,—‘Seriously, I must apologize for my unlucky soliloquy; not
                    that I thought I was saying much harm, for I did not by any means say or think
                    the Captain wished Sir Guy any ill, and few men who stood next in succession to
                    such a property would be likely to forget it.’
                ‘Yes, but Philip is not like other men,’ said Charlotte, who, at fourteen, had
                    caught much of her brother's power of repartee, and could be quite as provoking,
                    when unrestrained by any one whom she cared to obey.
                Laura felt it was more for her dignity not to notice this, and replied, with an
                    effort for a laugh,—
                ‘It must be your guilty conscience that sets you apologizing, for you said no
                    harm, as you observe.’
                ‘Yes,’ said Dr. Mayerne, good-humouredly. ‘He does very well without it, and no
                    doubt he would be one of the first men in the country if he had it; but it is in
                    very good hands now, on the whole. I don't think, even if the lad has been
                    tempted into a little folly just now, that he can ever go very far wrong.’
                ‘No, indeed,’ said Charlotte; ‘but Charlie and I don't believe he has done
                    anything wrong.’
                She spoke in a little surly decided tone, as if her opinion put an end to the
                    matter, and Philip's return closed the discussion.
                Divided as the party were between upstairs and downstairs, and in the absence of
                    Charles's shrewd observation, Philip and Laura had more opportunity of
                    intercourse than usual, and now that his departure would put an end to
                    suspicion, they ventured on more openly seeking each other. It never could be
                    the perfect freedom that they had enjoyed before the avowal of their sentiments,
                    but they had many brief conversations, giving Laura feverish, but exquisite,
                    delight at each renewal of his rare expressions of tenderness.
                
                ‘What are you going to do to-day?’ he asked, on the last morning before he was to
                    leave Hollywell. ‘I must see you alone before I go.’
                She looked down, and he kept his eyes fixed on her rather sternly, for he had
                    never before made a clandestine appointment, and he did not like feeling ashamed
                    of it. At last she said,—
                ‘I go to East Hill School this afternoon. I shall come away at half-past
                    three.’
                Mary Ross was still absent; her six nephews and nieces having taken advantage of
                    her visit to have the measles, not like reasonable children, all at once, so as
                    to be one trouble, but one after the other, so as to keep Aunt Mary with them as
                    long as possible; and Mr. Ross did not know what would have become of the female
                    department of his parish but for Laura, who worked at school-keeping
                    indefatigably.
                Laura had some difficulty in shaking off Charlotte's company this afternoon, and
                    was obliged to make the most of the probability of rain, and the dreadful dirt
                    of the roads. Indeed, she represented it as so formidable, that Mrs. Edmonstone,
                    who had hardly time to look out of window, much less to go out of doors,
                    strongly advised her to stay at home herself; and Charlotte grew all the more
                    eager for the fun. Luckily, however, for Laura, Dr. Mayerne came in, laughing at
                    the reports of the weather; and as he was wanted to prescribe for a poor old man
                    in an opposite direction, he took Charlotte with him to show the way, and she
                    was much better pleased to have him for a companion than the grave Laura.
                Philip, in the meantime, had walked all the way to Broadstone, timing his return
                    exactly, that he might meet Laura as she came out of the school, and feel as if
                    it had been by chance. It was a grey, misty November day, and the leaves of the
                    elm-trees came floating round them, yellow and damp.
                ‘You have had a wet walk,’ said Laura, as they met.
                ‘It is not quite raining,’ he answered; and they 
                        pro-
                        proceeded
                     ceeded for some minutes in silence,
                    until he said,—‘It is time we should come to an understanding.’
                She looked at him in alarm, and his voice was immediately gentler; indeed, at
                    times it was almost inaudible from his strong emotion. ‘I believe that no
                    affection has ever been stronger or truer than ours.’
                ‘Has been!’ repeated Laura, in a wondering, bewildered voice.
                ‘And is, if you are satisfied to leave things as they are.’
                ‘I must be, if you are.’
                ‘I will not say I am satisfied with what must be, as I am situated; but I felt it
                    due to you to set the true state of the case before you. Few would venture their
                    love as I do mine with you, bound in reality, though not formally, with no
                    promise sought or given; yet I am not more assured that I stand here than I am
                    that our love is for ever.’
                ‘I am sure it is!’ she repeated fervently. ‘O Philip, there never was a time I
                    did not love you; and since that day on Ashen Down, I have loved you with my
                    whole heart. I am sometimes afraid it has left no proper room for the rest, when
                    I find how much more I think of your going away than of poor Charles.’
                ‘Yes,’ he said, ‘you have understood me as none but you would have done, through
                    coldness and reserve, apparently, even towards yourself, and when to others I
                    have seemed grave and severe beyond my years. You have never doubted, you have
                    recognized the warmth within; you have trusted your happiness to me, and it
                    shall be safe in my keeping, for, Laura, it is all mine.’
                ‘There is only one thing,’ said Laura, timidly; ‘would it not be better if mamma
                    knew?’
                ‘Laura, I have considered that; but remember, you are not bound; I have never
                    asked you to bind yourself. You might marry to-morrow, and I should have no
                    right to complain. There is nothing to prevent you.’
                
                She exclaimed, as if with pain.
                ‘True,’ he answered, ‘you could not, and that certainty suffices me. I ask no
                    more without your parents' consent; but it would be giving them and you useless
                    distress and perplexity to ask it now. They would object to my poverty, and we
                    should gain nothing; for I would never be so selfish as to wish to expose you to
                    such a life as that of the wife of a poor officer; and an open engagement could
                    not add to our confidence in each other. We must be content to wait for my
                    promotion. By that time’—he smiled gravely—‘our attachment will have lasted so
                    many years as to give it a claim to respect.’
                ‘It is no new thing.’
                ‘No newer than our lives; but remember, my Laura, that you are but twenty.’
                ‘You have made me feel much older,’ sighed Laura, ‘not that I would be a
                    thoughtless child again. That cannot last long, not even for poor little
                    Amy.’
                ‘No one would wish to part with the deeper feelings of elder years to regain the
                    carelessness of childhood, even to be exempted from the suffering that has
                    brought them.’
                ‘No, indeed.’
                ‘For instance, these two years have scarcely been a time of great happiness to
                    you?’
                ‘Sometimes,’ whispered Laura, ‘sometimes beyond all words, but often dreary and
                    oppressive.’
                ‘Heaven knows how unwillingly I have rendered it so. Rather than dim the
                    brightness of your life, I would have repressed my own sentiments for ever.’
                ‘But, then, where would have been my brightness?’
                ‘I would, I say, but for a peril to you. I see my fears were unfounded. You were
                    safe; but in my desire to guard you from what has come on poor Amy, my feelings,
                    though not wont to overpower me, carried me further than I intended.’
                ‘Did they?’
                ‘Do not suppose I regret it. No, no, Laura, those were the most precious moments in my life, when I drew from you those words
                    and looks which have been blessed in remembrance ever since; and doubly,
                    knowing, as I do, that you also prize that day.’
                ‘Yes—yes—’
                ‘In the midst of much that was adverse, and with a necessity for a trust and
                    self-control of which scarce a woman but yourself would have been capable, you
                    have endured nobly—’
                ‘I could bear anything, if you were not going so far away.’
                ‘You will bear that too, Laura, and bravely. It will not be for ever.’
                ‘How long do you think?’
                ‘I cannot tell. Several years may pass before I have my promotion. It may be that
                    I shall not see that cheek in its fresh bloom again, but I shall find the same
                    Laura that I left, the same in love, and strength, and trust.’
                ‘Ah; I shall grow faded and grey, and you will be a sun-burnt old soldier,’ said
                    Laura, smiling, and looking, half sadly, half proudly, up to his noble features;
                    ‘but hearts don't change like faces!’
                After they came near the house, they walked up and down the lane for a long time,
                    for Philip avoided a less public path, in order to keep up his delusion that he
                    was doing nothing in an underhand way. It grew dark, and the fog thickened,
                    straightening Laura's auburn ringlets, and hanging in dew-drops on Philip's
                    rough coat, but little recked they; it was such an hour as they had never
                    enjoyed before. Philip had never so laid himself open, or assured her so
                    earnestly of the force of his affection; and her thrills of ecstasy overcame the
                    desolate expectation of his departure, and made her sensible of strength to bear
                    seven, ten, twenty years of loneliness and apparent neglect. She knew him, and
                    he would never fail her.
                Yet, when at last they went in-doors, and Amy followed her to her room, wondering
                    to find her so wet, and so late, who could
                    have seen the two sisters without reading greater peace and serenity in the face
                    of the younger.
                Philip felt an elder brother's interest for ‘poor little Amy.’ He did not see
                    much of her; but he compassionated her as a victim to her mother's imprudence,
                    hoping she would soon be weaned from her attachment. He thought her a good,
                    patient little thing, so soft and gentle as probably not to have the strength
                    and depth that would make the love incurable; and the better he liked her, the
                    more unfit he thought her for Guy. It would have been uniting a dove and a
                    tiger; and his only fear was, that when he was no longer at hand, Mr.
                    Edmonstone's weak good-nature might be prevailed on to sacrifice her. He did his
                    best for her protection, by making his uncle express a resolution never to admit
                    Guy into his family again, unless the accusation of gambling was completely
                    disproved.
                The last morning came, and Philip went to take leave of Charles. Poor Charles was
                    feebler by this time, and too much subdued by pain and languor to receive him as
                    at first, but the spirit was the same; and when Philip wished him good bye,
                    saying he hoped soon to hear he was better, he returned for answer,
                ‘Good bye, Philip, I hope soon to hear you are better. I had rather have my hip
                    than your mind.’
                He was in no condition to be answered, and Philip repeated his good bye, little
                    thinking how they were to meet again.
                The others were assembled in the hall. His aunt's eyes were full of tears, for
                    she loved him dearly, her brother's only son, early left motherless, whom she
                    had regarded like her own child, and who had so nobly fulfilled all the fondest
                    hopes. All his overbearing ways and uncalled-for interference were forgotten,
                    and her voice gave way as she embraced him, saying,
                ‘God bless you, Philip, wherever you may be. We shall miss you very much!’
                Little Amy's hand was put into his, and he squeezed it kindly; but she could hardly speak her ‘good bye,’
                    for the tears that came, because she was grieved not to feel more sorry that her
                    highly esteemed cousin, so kind and condescending to her, was going away for so
                    very long a time.
                ‘Good bye, Philip,’ said Charlotte; ‘I shall be quite grown up by the time you
                    come home.’
                ‘Don't make such uncivil auguries, Puss,’ said her father; but Philip heard her
                    not, for he was holding Laura's hand in a grasp that seemed as if it never would
                    unclose.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER XXI.
                
                    
                        
                            
                                I will sing, for I am sad,
                                For many my misdeeds;
                                It is my sadness makes me glad,
                                For love for sorrow pleads.
                            
                        
                        —WILLIAMS.
                    
                
                AFTER his last interview with Philip, Guy returned to his rooms
                    to force himself into occupation till his cousin should come to acknowledge that
                    here, at least, there was nothing amiss. He trusted that when it was proved all
                    was right in this quarter, the prejudice with regard to the other might be
                    diminished, though his hopes were lower since he had found out the real grounds
                    of the accusation, reflecting that he should never be able to explain without
                    betraying his uncle.
                He waited in vain. The hour passed at which Philip's coming was possible; Guy was
                    disappointed, but looked for a letter; but post after post failed to bring him
                    one. Perhaps Philip would write from Hollywell, or else Mr. Edmonstone would
                    write, or at least he was sure that Charles would write—Charles, whose
                    confidence and sympathy, expressed in almost daily letters, had been such a
                    comfort. But not a line came. He reviewed in memory his last letter to Charles,
                    wondering whether it could have offended him; but it did not seem possible; he
                    thought over all that Philip could have learnt in his visit, to see if it could
                    by any means have been turned to his disadvantage. But he knew he had done
                    nothing to which blame could be attached; he had never infringed the rules of
                    college discipline; and though still backward, and unlikely to distinguish
                    himself, he believed that was the worst likely
                    to have been said of him. He only wished his true character was as good as what
                    would be reported of him.
                As he thought and wondered, he grew more and more restless and unhappy. He could
                    imagine no reason for the silence, unless Mr. Edmonstone had absolutely
                    forbidden any intercourse, and it did not seem probable that he would issue any
                    commands in a manner to bind a grown-up son, more especially as there had been
                    no attempt at communication with Amy. It was terrible thus, without warning, to
                    be cut off from her, and all besides that he loved. As long as Charles wrote, he
                    fancied her sitting by, perhaps sealing the letter, and he could even tell by
                    the kind of paper and envelope, whether they were sitting in the dressing-room
                    or down-stairs; but now there was nothing, no assurance of sympathy, no word of
                    kindness; they might all have given him up; those unhappy words were like a
                    barrier, cutting him off for ever from the happiness of which he had once had a
                    glimpse. Was the Redclyffe doom of sin and sorrow really closing in upon
                    him?
                If it had not been for chapel and study, he hardly knew how he should have got
                    through that term; but as the end of it approached, a feverish impatience seized
                    on him whenever the post came in, for a letter, if only to tell him
                        not to come to Hollywell. None came, and he saw nothing for it,
                    but to go to Redclyffe; and if he dreaded seeing it in its altered state when
                    his spirits were high and unbroken, how did he shrink from it now? He did,
                    however, make up his mind, for he felt that his reluctance almost wronged his
                    own beloved home. Harry Graham wanted to persuade him to come and spend
                    Christmas at his home, with his lively family, but Guy felt as if gaiety was not
                    for him, even if he could enjoy it. He did not wish to drown his present
                    feelings, and steadily, though gratefully, refused this as well as one or two
                    other friendly invitations.
                After lingering in vain till the last day of term, he wrote to desire that his
                    own room and the library might be made ready
                    for him, and that ‘something’ might be sent to meet him at Moorworth.
                Railroads had 
                        came
                        come
                     a step nearer, even to his remote corner of the world, in the course
                    of the last three years; but there was still thirty miles of coach beyond, and
                    these lay through a part of the country he had never seen before. It was for the
                    most part bleak, dreary moor, such as, under the cold grey wintry sky, presented
                    nothing to rouse him from his musings on the welcome he might have been at that
                    very moment receiving at Hollywell.
                A sudden dip in the high ground made it necessary for the coach to put on the
                    drag, and thus it slowly entered a village, which attracted attention from its
                    wretched appearance. The cottages, of the rough stone of the country, were
                    little better than hovels; slates were torn off, windows broken. Wild-looking,
                    uncombed women, in garments of universal dirt colour, stood at the doors; ragged
                    children ran and shrieked after the coach; the church had a hole in the roof,
                    and stood tottering in spite of rude repairs; the churchyard was trodden down by
                    cattle, and the whole place only resembled the pictures of Irish
                    dilapidation.
                ‘What miserable place is this?’ asked a passenger.
                ‘Yes, that's what all gentlemen ask,’ replied the coachman; ‘and well you may.
                    There's not a more noted place for thieves and vagabonds. They call it Coombe
                    Prior.’
                Guy well knew the name, though he had never been there. It was a distant offset
                    of his own property, and a horrible sense of responsibility for all the crime
                    and misery there came over him.
                ‘Is there no one to look after it?’ continued the traveller. ‘No squire, no
                    clergyman?’
                ‘A fox-hunting parson,’ answered the coachman, ‘who lives half-a-dozen miles off,
                    and gallops over for the service.’
                Guy knew that the last presentation had been sold in the days of his
                    grandfather's extravagance, and beheld another effect of ancestral sin.
                
                ‘Do you know who is the owner of the place?’
                ‘Yes, sir; 'tis Sir Guy Morville. You have heard tell of the old Sir Guy
                    Morville, for he made a deal of noise in the world.’
                ‘What? The noted—’
                ‘I ought not to allow you to finish your sentence,’ said Guy, very courteously,
                    ‘without telling you that I am his grandson.’
                ‘I beg your pardon!’ exclaimed the traveller.
                ‘Nay,’ said Guy, with a smile, ‘I only thought it was fair to tell you.’
                ‘Sir Guy himself!’ said the coachman, turning round, and touching his hat,
                    anxious to do the honours of his coach. ‘I have not seen you on this road
                    before, sir, for I never forget a face; I hope you'll often be this way.’
                After a few more civilities, Guy was at liberty to attend to the fresh influx of
                    sad musings on thoughtless waste, affecting not only the destiny of the
                    individual himself, but whole generations besides. How many souls might it not
                    have ruined? ‘These sheep, what had they done!’ His grandfather had repented,
                    but who was to preach repentance unto these? He did not wonder now that his own
                    hopes of happiness had been blighted; he only marvelled that a bright present or
                    future had ever been his— 
                        
                            While souls were wandering far and wide,
                            And curses swarmed on every side.
                        
                    
                The traveller was, meanwhile, observing the heir of Redclyffe, possessor of
                    wealth and wide lands. Little did he guess how that bright-eyed youth looked
                    upon his riches.
                Miles were passed in one long melancholy musing, till Guy was roused by the sight
                    of familiar scenes, and found himself rattling over the stones of the little
                    borough of Moorworth, with the grey, large-windowed, old-fashioned houses, on
                    each side, looking at him with friendly eyes. There, behind those limes cut out
                    in arches, was the commercial school, where he had spent many an hour in construing with patient Mr. Potts;
                    and though he had now a juster appreciation of his old master's erudition, which
                    he had once thought so vast, he recollected with veneration his long and patient
                    submission to an irksome, uncongenial life. Rumbling on, the coach was in the
                    square market-place, the odd-looking octagon market-house in the middle, and the
                    inn—the respectable old ‘George’—with its long rank of stables and out-buildings
                    forming one side. It was at this inn that Guy had been born, and the mistress
                    having been the first person who had him in her arms, considered herself
                    privileged to have a great affection for him, and had delighted in the greetings
                    he always exchanged with her when he put up his pony at her stable, and went to
                    his tutor.
                There was a certainty of welcome here that cheered him, as he swung himself from
                    the roof of the coach, lifted Bustle down, and called out to the bar-maid that
                    he hoped Mrs. Lavers was well.
                The next moment Mrs. Lavers was at the door herself, with her broad,
                    good-humoured face, close cap, bright shawl, and black gown, just as Guy always
                    recollected, and might, if he could, have recollected, when he was born. If she
                    had any more guests she neither saw nor cared for them; her welcome was all for
                    him; and he could not but smile and look cheerful, if only that he might not
                    disappoint her, feeling, in very truth cheered and gratified by her cordiality.
                    If he was in a hurry, he would not show it; and he allowed her to seat him in
                    her own peculiar abode, behind the glass-cases of tongue and cold chicken, told
                    her he came from Oxford, admired her good fire, and warmed his hands over it,
                    before he even asked if the ‘something’ had arrived which was to take him
                    home.
                It was coming to the door at the moment, and proved to be Mr. Markham's tall,
                    high-wheeled gig, drawn by the old white-faced chestnut, and driven by Markham
                    himself—a short, sturdy, brown-red, honest-faced old man, with frosted hair and
                    whiskers, an air more of a yeoman than of a
                    lawyer; and though not precisely gentlemanlike, yet not ungentlemanlike, as
                    there was no pretension about him.
                Guy darted out to meet him, and was warmly shaken by the hand, though the meeting
                    was gruff.
                ‘So, Sir Guy! how d'ye do? I wonder what brings you here on such short notice?
                    Good morning, Mrs. Lavers. Bad roads this winter.’
                ‘Good morning, Mr. Markham. It is a treat, indeed, to have Sir Guy here once
                    more; so grown, too.’
                ‘Grown—hum?’ said Markham, surveying him; ‘I don't see it. He'll never be as tall
                    as his father. Have you got your things, Sir Guy? Ay, that's the way,—care for
                    nothing but the dog. Gone on by the coach, most likely.’
                They might have been, for aught Guy knew to the contrary, but Boots had been more
                    attentive, and they were right. Mrs. Lavers begged he would walk in, and warm
                    himself; but Markham answered—
                ‘What do you say, Sir Guy? The road is shocking, and it will be as dark as a pit
                    by the time we get home.’
                ‘Very well; we won't keep old Whiteface standing,’ said Guy. ‘Good-bye, Mrs.
                    Lavers; thank you. I shall see you again before long.’
                Before Markham had finished a short private growl on the shocking state of the
                    Moorworth pavement, and a protest that somebody should be called over the coals,
                    Guy began,—
                ‘What a horrible place Coombe Prior is!’
                ‘I only know I wish you had more such tenants as Todd,’ was Markham's answer.
                    ‘Pays his rent to a day, and improves his land.’
                ‘But what sort of man is he?’
                ‘A capital farmer. A regular screw, I believe; but that is no concern of
                    mine.’
                ‘There are all the cottages tumbling down.’
                ‘Ay? Are they? I shouldn't wonder, for they are all in his lease; and he would
                    not lay out an unproductive farthing. And a precious bad lot they are there, too! There were actually three of them
                    poaching in Cliffstone hanger this autumn; but we have them in jail. A pretty
                    pass of impudence to be coming that distance to poach!’
                Guy used to be kindled into great wrath by the most distant hint of poachers; but
                    now he cared for men, not for game, and instead of asking, as Markham expected,
                    the particulars of their apprehension, continued—
                ‘The clergyman is that Halroyd, is he not?’
                ‘Yes; every one knows what he is. I declare it went against me to take his offer
                    for the living; but it could not be helped. Money must be had; but there! least
                    said, soonest mended.’
                ‘We must mend it,’ said Guy, so decidedly, that Markham looked at him with
                    surprise.
                ‘I don't see what's to be done till Halroyd dies; and then you may give the
                    living to whom you please. He lives so hard he can't last long, that is one
                    comfort.’
                Guy sighed and pondered; and presently Markham resumed the conversation.
                ‘And what has brought you home at a moment's notice? You might as well have
                    written two or three days before, at least.’
                ‘I was waiting, in hopes of going to Hollywell,’ said Guy sorrowfully.
                ‘Well, and what is the matter? You have not been quarrelling with your guardian,
                    I hope and trust? Going the old way, after all!’ exclaimed Markham, not in his
                    usual gruff, grumbling note, but with real anxiety, and almost mournfulness.
                ‘He took up some unjust suspicion of me. I could not bear it patiently, and said
                    something that has offended him.’
                ‘Oh, Sir Guy! hot and fiery as ever. I always told you that hasty temper would be
                    the ruin of you.’
                ‘Too true!’ said Guy, so dejectedly, that the old man instantly grew kinder, and
                    was displeased with Mr. Edmonstone.
                
                ‘What could he have taken into his head to suspect you of?’
                ‘Of gaming at St. Mildred's.’
                ‘You have not!’
                ‘Never!’
                ‘Then why does not he believe you?’
                ‘He thinks he has proof against me. I can't guess how he discovered it; but I was
                    obliged to pay some money to a gambling sort of man, and he thinks I lost
                    it.’
                ‘Then why don't you show him your accounts?’
                ‘For one reason—because I have kept none.’
                As if it was an immense relief to his mind, Markham launched out into a discourse
                    on the extreme folly, imprudence, and all other evils of such carelessness. He
                    was so glad to find this was the worst, that his lecture lasted for two miles
                    and a half, during which Guy, though attentive at first, had ample space for all
                    the thrills of recognition at each well-known spot.
                There was the long, green-wooded valley between the hills, where he had shot his
                    first woodcock; there was the great stone on which he had broken his best knife
                    in a fit of geological research; there was the pool where he used to skate:
                    there the sudden break in the lulls that gave the first view of the sea. He
                    could not help springing up at the sight, pale, leaden, and misty as it was; and
                    though Markham forthwith rebuked him for not listening, his heart was still
                    beating as at the first sight of a dear old friend, when that peep was far
                    behind. More black heaths, with stacks of peat and withered ferns. Guy was
                    straining his eyes far off in the darkness to look for the smoke of the old
                    keeper's cottage chimney, and could with difficulty refrain from interrupting
                    Markham to ask after the old man.
                Another long hill, and then began a descent into a rich valley, beautiful fields
                    of young wheat, reddish soil, full of fatness, large spreading trees with noble
                    limbs, cottages, and cottage gardens, very unlike poor Coombe Prior; Markham's
                    house,—a perfect little snuggery,—covered all
                    over with choice climbing plants, the smart plastered doctor's house, the
                    Morville Arms, looking honest and venerable, the church, with its
                    disproportionately high tower, the parsonage rather hidden behind it; and, on
                    the opposite side of the road, the park wall and the gate, where old Sarah
                    stood, in an ecstasy of curtsies.
                Guy jumped out to meet her, and to spare Whiteface; for there was a sharp, steep
                    bit of hill, rising from the lodge, trying to horses, in spite of the road being
                    cut out in long spirals. On he ran, leaving the road to Markham, straight up the
                    high, steep, slippery green slope. He came in sight at the great dark-red
                    sandstone pile of building; but he passed it, and ran on to where the ground
                    rose on one side of it still more abruptly, and at the highest point was
                    suddenly broken away and cut off into a perpendicular crag, descending in some
                    parts sheer down to the sea, in others a little broken, and giving space for the
                    growth of stunted brushwood. He stood at the highest point, where the precipice
                    was most abrupt. The sea was dashing far beneath; the ripple, dash, and roar
                    were in his ears once more; the wind—such wind as only blows over the sea—was
                    breathing on his face; the broad, free horizon far before him; the field of
                    waves, in gray and brown shade, indeed, but still his own beloved waves; the
                    bay, shut in with rocks, and with black Shag Island and its train of rocks
                    projecting far out to the west, and almost immediately beneath him, to the left,
                    the little steep street of the fishing part of the village, nestled into the
                    cove, which was formed by the mouth of a little mountain stream, and the dozen
                    boats it could muster rocking on the water.
                Guy stood and looked as if he could never cease looking, or enjoying the sea-air
                    and salt breeze. It was real pleasure at first, for there were his home, his
                    friends; and though there was a throb and tightness of heart at thinking how all
                    was changed but such as this, and how all must change; how he had talked with Amy of this very thing, and had longed to
                    have her standing beside him there; yet there was more of soothing than
                    suffering in the sensation.
                So many thoughts rushed through his mind, that he fancied he had stood there a
                    long time, when he turned and hastened down again, but he had been so rapid as
                    to meet Markham before the servants had had time to miss him.
                The servants were indeed few. There was, alas! William of Deloraine, waiting to
                    hold Whiteface; there was Arnaud, an old Swiss, first courier and then butler to
                    old Sir Guy; there was Mrs. Drew, the housekeeper, also a very old servant; and
                    these were all; but their welcome was of the heartiest, in feeling, if not in
                    demonstration, as the gig went with an echoing, thundering sound under the deep
                    archway that led into the paved quadrangle round which the house was built, that
                    court where, as Philip had truly averred, the sun hardly ever shone, so high
                    were the walls on each side.
                Up the stone steps into the spacious dark hall, and into the large, gloomy
                    library, partially lighted by a great wood fire, replying to Mrs. Drew's
                    questions about his dinner and his room, and asking Markham to stay and dine
                    with him, Guy at length found himself at home, in the very room where he had
                    spent every evening of his boyhood, with the same green leather arm-chair, in
                    the very place where his grandfather used to sit.
                Markham consented to dine with him, and the evening was spent in talking over the
                    news of Redclyffe. Markham spoke with much bitterness of the way in which
                    Captain Morville had taken upon him; his looking into the accounts, though any
                    one was welcome to examine them, was, he thought, scarcely becoming in so young
                    a man,—the heir-at-law, too.
                ‘He can't help doing minutely whatever he undertakes,’ said Guy. ‘If you had him
                    here, you would never have to scold him like me.’
                
                ‘Heaven forbid!’ said Markham, hastily. ‘I know the same place would not hold him
                    and me long.’
                ‘You have told me nothing of our new vicar. How do you get on with him?’
                ‘None the better for that same Captain Morville,’ replied Markham, plunging
                    forthwith into his list of grievances, respecting which he was waging a petty
                    warfare, in the belief that he was standing up for his master's rights.
                Mr. Bernard, the former clergyman, had been a quiet, old-fashioned man, very
                    kind-hearted, but not at all active, and things had gone on in a sleepy,
                    droning, matter-of-fact way, which Markham being used to, thought exactly what
                    ought to be. Now, Mr. Ashford was an energetic person, desirous to do his utmost
                    for the parish, and whatever he did was an offence to Markham, from the daily
                    service, to the objecting to the men going out fishing on Sunday. He opposed
                    every innovation with all his might, and Captain Morville's interference, which
                    had borne Markham down with Mr. Edmonstone's authority, had only made him more
                    determined not to bate an inch. He growled every time Guy was inclined to
                    believe Mr. Ashford in the right, and brought out some fresh complaint. The
                    grand controversy was at present about the school. There was a dame's school in
                    the cove or fishing part of the parish, maintained at the expense of the estate,
                    in a small cottage far from the church, and Mr. and Mrs. Ashford had fixed their
                    eyes on a house in the village, and so near the church as to be very convenient
                    for a Sunday-school. It only wanted to be floored, and to have a partition taken
                    down, but to this Markham would not consent, treating it as a monstrous proposal
                    to take away the school from old Jenny Robinson.
                ‘I suppose Mr. Ashford meant to pension her off?’ said Guy.
                ‘He did say something about it; but who is to do it, I should like to know?’
                ‘We are, I suppose.’
                
                ‘Pay two schoolmistresses mistresses at once! One for doing nothing! A pretty
                    tolerable proposal for Mr. Ashford to be making!’
                ‘I don't see why. Of course it is my business.’
                ‘Besides, I don't see that she is not as fit to keep school as ever she was.’
                ‘That may well be,’ said Guy, smiling. ‘We never used to be noted for our
                    learning.’
                ‘Don't you be for bringing new lights into the parish, Sir Guy, or we shall never
                    have any more peace.’
                ‘I shall see about old Jenny,’ answered Guy. ‘As to the house, that must be done
                    directly. Her cottage is not fit to keep school in.’
                Grunt, grunt; but though a very unbending viceroy, a must from the
                    reigning baronet had a potent effect on Markham, whether it was for good or
                    evil. He might grumble, but he never disobeyed, and the boy he was used to scold
                    and order had found that Morville intonation of the must, which
                    took away all idea of resistance. He still, however remonstrated.
                ‘As you please, Sir Guy, but we shall have the deer frightened, and the
                    plantations cut to pieces, if the boys from the Cove are to be crossing the
                    park.’
                ‘I'll be answerable for all the damage. If they are once properly spoken to, they
                    will be on honour to behave well. I have seen a little of what a village school
                    ought to be at East Hill, and I should like to see Redclyffe like it?’
                Grunt again; and Guy found that to make Markham amiable, he must inquire after
                    all his nephews and nieces.
                All the evening he had much to occupy him, and the dreaded sense of solitude and
                    bereavement did not come on till he had parted with Markham, and stood alone
                    before the fire in the large, gloomy room, where the light of the lamp seemed
                    absorbed in the darkness of the distant corners, and where he had scarcely been
                    since the moment when he found his grandfather 
                        sense-
                        senseless
                     less in that very chair. How
                    different had that room once been in his eyes, when his happy spirits defied
                    every association of gloom, and the book-shelves, the carved chairs, the heavy
                    dark-green curtains and deep windows were connected with merry freaks, earnest
                    researches, delightful achievements or discoveries. How long ago that time
                    seemed! and how changed was he!
                There was a certain tendency to melancholy in Guy's mind. High spirits,
                    prosperity, and self-discipline, had kept it from developing itself until the
                    beginning of his troubles, but since that time it had been gradually gaining
                    ground, and this was a time of great suffering, as he stood alone in his
                    forefathers' house, and felt himself, in his early youth, a doomed man, destined
                    to bear the penalty of their crimes in the ruin of his dearest hopes, as if his
                    heirloom of misery had but waited to seize on him till the very moment when it
                    would give him the most to endure.
                ‘But bear it I must and will!’ said he, lifting his head from the carved
                    chimney-piece, where he had been resting it. ‘I have been in will a murderer
                    myself, and what right have I to repine like the Israelites, with their
                    self-justifying proverb? No; let me be thankful that I was not given up even
                    then, but have been able to repent, and do a little better next time. It will be
                    a blessing as yet ungranted to any of us, if indeed I should bear to the full
                    the doom of sorrow, so that it may be vouchsafed me only to avoid actual guilt.
                    Yes, Amy, your words are still with me—‘Sintram conquered his doom,’—and it was
                    by following death! Welcome, then, whatever may be in store for me, were it even
                    a long, cheerless life without you, Amy. There is another world!’
                With the energy of freshened resolution, he lighted his candle, and walked, with
                    echoing steps, up the black oak staircase, along the broad gallery, up another
                    flight, down another passage, to his own room. He had expressly written ‘his own
                    room,’ and confirmed it on his arrival, or Mrs. Drew would have lodged him as she thought more suitably for the master of
                    the house. Nothing had been done to alter its old, familiar aspect, except
                    lighting a fire, which he had never seen there before. There were all his boyish
                    treasures, his bows and arrows, his collection of birds' wings, his wonderful
                    weapons and contrivances, from his fire-balloon down to the wren's-egg, all just
                    as he left them, their good condition attesting the care that Mrs. Drew had
                    taken for his sake.
                He renewed his acquaintance with them with a sort of regretful affection and
                    superiority; but there was a refreshment in these old memories which aided the
                    new feeling of life imparted to him by his resolution to bear. Nor had he only
                    to bear, he had also to do; and before the late hour at which he
                    fell asleep, he had made up his mind what was the first step to be taken about
                    Coombe Priory, and had remembered with rejoicing that whereas he had regretted
                    leaving the chapel at college which had so comforted and helped him, there was
                    now daily service at Redclyffe Church. The last thing in his mind, before
                    reflection was lost in sleep, was this stanza— 
                        
                            Gales from Heaven, if so He will,
                            Sweeter melodies may wake
                            On the lowly mountain rill
                            Than the meeting waters make.
                            Who hath the Father and the Son,
                            May be left, but not alone.
                        
                    
            
            
                
                CHAPTER XXII.
                
                    
                        
                            
                                And when the solemn deep church-bell
                                Entreats the soul to pray,
                                The midnight phantoms feel the spell,
                                The shadows sweep away.
                            
                            
                                Down the broad Vale of Tears afar,
                                The spectral camp is fled;
                                Faith shineth as a morning star,
                                Our ghastly fears are dead.
                            
                        
                        —LONGFELLOW.
                    
                
                MR. ASHFORD was a connection of Lady Thorndale's, and it was
                    about a year since the living of Redclyffe had been presented to him. Mr. and
                    Mrs. Ashford were of course anxious to learn all they could about their young
                    squire, on whom the welfare of the parish depended, even more than in most
                    cases, as the whole was his property. Their expectations were not raised by Mr.
                    Markham's strenuous opposition to all their projects, and his constant appeals
                    to the name of ‘Sir Guy;’ but, on the other hand, they were pleased by the
                    strong feeling of affection that all the villagers manifested for their
                    landlord.
                The inhabitants of Redclyffe were a primitive race, almost all related to each
                    other, rough and ignorant, and with a very strong feudal feeling for ‘Sir Guy,’
                    who was king, state, supreme authority, in their eyes; and Mrs. Ashford further
                    found that ‘Master Morville,’ as the old women called him in his individual
                    character, was regarded by them with great personal affection.
                On the occasion when Captain Morville came to
                    Redclyffe, and left James Thorndale to spend a couple of hours at the parsonage,
                    they interrogated the latter anxiously on his acquaintance with Sir Guy. He had
                    not the least idea of creating prejudice, indeed, he liked him as a companion,
                    but he saw everything through the medium of his friend, and spoke something to
                    this effect: He was very agreeable; they would like his manners; he was
                    tolerably clever, but not to be named in the same day with his cousin for
                    abilities, far less in appearance. Very pleasant, generally liked, decidedly a
                    taking man; but there was some cloud over him just now—debts, probably. Morville
                    had been obliged to go to Oxford about it; but Mr. Thorndale did not profess to
                    understand it, as of course Morville said as little of it as he could. Thereupon
                    all began to admire the aforesaid Morville, already known by report, and whose
                    fine countenance and sensible conversation confirmed all that had been said of
                    him.
                And as, after his interference, Mr. Markham's opposition became surly, as well as
                    sturdy, and Sir Guy's name was sure to stand arrayed against them whichever way
                    they turned, the younger part of the family learnt to regard him somewhat in the
                    light of an enemy, and their elders awaited his majority with more of fear than
                    of hope.
                ‘Mamma!’ cried Edward Ashford, rushing in, so as to bring the first news to his
                    mother, who had not been to the early service, ‘I do believe Sir Guy is
                    come!’
                ‘Sir Guy was at church!’ shouted Robert, almost at the same moment.
                Mr. Ashford confirmed the intelligence.
                ‘I saw him speaking, after church, to some of the old men, so afterwards I went
                    to ask old John Barton, and found him with tears in his eyes, positively
                    trembling with delight, for he said he never thought to have heard his cheery
                    voice again, and that he was coming down by and by to see the last letter from
                    Ben, at sea.’
                
                ‘That is very nice! Shall you call?’
                ‘Yes. Even if he is only here for a day or two, it will be better to have made
                    the acquaintance.’
                Mr. Ashford went to the park at two in the afternoon, and did not return till
                    near four.
                ‘Well,’ said he, ‘it is as James Thorndale says, there is something very
                    prepossessing about him.’
                ‘Have you been there all this time?’
                ‘Yes. He was not at home; so I left my card, and was coming away, when I met him
                    at the turn leading to the Cove. He need not have seen me unless he had liked,
                    but he came up in a good-natured cordial way, and thanked me for coming to
                    call.’
                ‘Is he like his cousin?’
                ‘Not in the least; not nearly so tall or so handsome, but with a very pleasant
                    face, and seeming made up of activity, very slight, as if he was all bone and
                    sinew. He said he was going to see the Christmas ox at the farm, and asked me to
                    come with him. Presently we came to a high gate, locked up. He was over it in an
                    instant, begged me to wait while he ran on to the farm for the key, and was back
                    in a second with it.’
                ‘Did he enter on any of the disputed subjects?’
                ‘He began himself about the school, saying the house should be altered directly;
                    and talked over the whole matter very satisfactorily; undertook himself to speak
                    to Jenny Robinson; and was very glad to hear you meant her still to keep the
                    infants at the Cove; so I hope that matter is in a right train.’
                ‘If Mr. Markham will but let him.’
                ‘O, he is king or more here! We met Markham at the farm; and the first thing,
                    after looking at the cattle, Sir Guy found some planks lying about, and said
                    they were the very thing for flooring the school. Markham mentioned some barn
                    they were intended for, but Sir Guy said the school must be attended to at once,
                    and went with us to look at it. That was what kept me so long, measuring and calculating, and I hope it may be
                    begun in a week.’
                ‘This is delightful! What more could we wish?’
                ‘I don't think he will give trouble in parish matters, and in personal
                    intercourse he will be sure to be most agreeable. I wish I knew there was
                    nothing amiss. It seems strange for him to come here for the vacation, instead
                    of going to his guardian's, as usual, and altogether he had an air of sadness
                    and depression, not like a youth, especially such an active one. I am afraid
                    something is wrong; those engaging people are often unstable. One thing I forgot
                    to tell you. We were walking through that belt of trees on the east side of the
                    hill, when he suddenly called out to ask how came the old ash-tree to be marked.
                    Markham answered in his gruff way, it was not his doing, but the Captain's. He
                    turned crimson, and began some angry exclamation; but as Markham was going on to
                    tell something else about it, he stopped him short, saying, ‘Never mind! I dare
                    say it's all right. I don't want to hear any more!’ and I don't think he spoke
                    much again till we got into the village. I am afraid there is some
                    misunderstanding between the cousins.’
                ‘Or more likely Mr. Markham is teaching him some jealousy of his heir. We could
                    not expect two Captain Morvilles in one family, and I am glad it is no
                    worse.’
                All that the Ashfords further saw of their young baronet made an impression in
                    his favour; every difficulty raised by the steward disappeared; their plans were
                    forwarded, and they heard of little but his good nature to the poor people; but
                    still they did not know how far to trust these appearances, and did not yet
                    venture to form an opinion on him, or enter into intimacy.
                ‘So the singers will not come to us on Christmas Eve, because they say they must
                    go to the Park,’ said Edward, rather savagely.
                ‘I was thinking,’ said Mrs. Ashford, ‘how forlorn it will be for that poor youth to spend his Christmas
                    day alone in that great house. Don't you think we might ask him to dinner?’
                Before Mr. Ashford could answer, the boys made such an uproar at the proposal of
                    bringing a stranger to spoil their Christmas, that their parents gave up the
                    idea.
                It was that Christmas day that Guy especially dreaded, as recalling so many
                    contrasts both with those passed here and at Hollywell. Since his return, he had
                    been exerting himself to attend to what he felt to be his duty, going about
                    among his people, arranging for their good or pleasure, and spending a good deal
                    of time over his studies. He had written to Mr. Ross, to ask his advice about
                    Coombe Prior, and had set Markham, much against his will, to remonstrate with
                    Farmer Todd about the repairs; but though there was a sort of satisfaction in
                    doing these things; though the attachment of his dependants soothed him, and
                    brought a new sense of the relation between himself and them; though views of
                    usefulness were on each side opening before him; yet there was a dreariness
                    about everything; he was weary even while he undertook and planned
                    energetically; each new project reminding him that there was no Amy to plan with
                    him. He could not sufficiently care for them.
                Still more dreary was his return to his old haunts, and to the scenery which he
                    loved so devotedly, the blue sea and purple hills, which had been like comrades
                    and playfellows, before he had known what it was to have living companions. They
                    used to be everything to him, and he had scarcely a wish beyond; afterwards his
                    dreams had been of longing affection for them, and latterly the idea of seeing
                    Amy love them and admire them had been connected with every vision of them; and
                    now the sight of the reality did but recal the sense that their charm had
                    departed; they could no longer suffice to him as of old, and their presence
                    brought back to him with fresh pangs of disappointment the thought of lost happiness and ruined hopes, as if Amy alone
                    could restore their value.
                The depression of his spirits inclined him to dwell at present more on the
                    melancholy history of his parents than on anything else. He had hitherto only
                    heard the brief narration of his grandfather, when he could ask no questions,
                    but he now obtained full particulars from Markham, who, when he found him bent
                    on hearing all, related everything, perhaps intending it as a warning against
                    the passions which, when once called into force, he dreaded to find equally
                    ungovernable in his present master.
                Mr. Morville had been his great pride and glory, and, in fact, had been so left
                    to his care as to have been regarded like a son of his own. He had loved him, if
                    possible, better than Guy, because he had been more his own; he had chosen his
                    school, and given him all the reproofs which had ever been bestowed on him with
                    his good in view; and how he had grieved for him was never known to man. It was
                    the first time he had ever talked it over; and he described, with strong, deep
                    feeling, the noble face and bearing of the dark-eyed, gallant-looking stripling,
                    his generosity and high spirit tainted and ruined by his wild temper and
                    impatience of restraint. There seemed to have been a great sweetness of
                    disposition, excellent impulses, and so strong a love of his father, in spite of
                    early neglect and present resentment, as showed what he might have been with
                    only tolerable training, which gave Guy's idea of him more individuality than it
                    had ever had before, and made him better understand what his unhappy
                    grandfather's remorse had been. Guy doubted for a moment whether it had not been
                    selfish to make Markham narrate the history of the time when he had suffered so
                    much; and Markham, when he had been led into telling it, and saw the deepening
                    sadness on his young master's countenance, wished it had not been told, and
                    ended by saying it was of no use to stir up what was better forgotten.
                
                He would have regretted the telling it still more if he had known how Guy acted
                    it all over in his solitude, picturing his father standing an outcast at the
                    door of his own home, yielding his pride and resentment for the sake of his
                    wife, ready to do anything, yearning for reconciliation, longing to tread once
                    more the friendly, familiar hall, and meeting only the angry repulse and cruel
                    taunt! He imagined the headlong passion, the despair, the dashing on his horse
                    in whirlwind-like swiftness; then the blow, the fall, the awful stillness of the
                    form, carried back to his father's house, and laid on that table a dead man!
                    Fierce wrath,—then another world! Guy worked himself up in imagining the horror
                    of the scene, till it was almost as if he had been an actor in it.
                Yet he had never cared so much for the thought of his father as for his mother.
                    His yearning for her which he had felt in early days at Hollywell, had returned
                    in double force, as he now fancied that she would have been here to comfort him,
                    and to share his grief, to be a Mrs. Edmonstone, whose love no fault and no
                    offence could ever cancel.
                He rode to Moorworth, and made Mrs. Lavers tell him all she remembered. She was
                    nothing loth, and related how she had been surprised by Mr. Morville arriving
                    with his fair, shrinking young wife, and how she had rejoiced in his coming home
                    again. She described Mrs. Morville with beautiful blue eyes and flaxen hair,
                    looking pale and delicate, and with clinging caressing ways like a little child
                    afraid to be left.
                ‘Poor thing!’ said Mrs. Lavers, wiping her eyes; ‘when he was going, she clung
                    about him, and cried, and was so timid about being left, that at last he called
                    me, and begged me to stay with her, and take care of her. It was very pretty to
                    see how gentle and soft he was to her, sharp and hasty as he was with most; and
                    she would not let him go, coaxing him not to stay away long; till at last he put
                    her on the sofa, saying, ‘There, there, Marianne, that will do. Only be a
                        good child, and I'll come for you.’ I
                    never forget those words, for they were the last I ever heard him speak.’
                ‘Well?’
                ‘Poor dear! she cried heartily at first; but after a time she cheered up, and
                    quite made friends with me. I remember she told me which were Mr. Morville's
                    favourite songs, and sang little scraps of them.’
                ‘Can you remember what they were?’ eagerly exclaimed Guy.
                ‘Law, no, sir; I never had no head for music. And she laughed about her journey
                    to Scotland, and got into spirits, only she could not bear I should go out of
                    the room; and after a time she grew very anxious for him to come back. I made
                    her some tea, and tried to get her to bed, but she would not go, though she
                    seemed very tired; for she said Mr. Morville would come to take her to
                    Redclyffe, and she wanted to hear all about the great house, listening for him
                    all the time, and I trying to quiet her, and telling her the longer he stayed
                    the better chance there was. Then came a call for me, and down-stairs I found
                    everything in confusion; the news had come—I never knew how. I had not had time
                    to hear it rightly myself, when there was a terrible cry from upstairs. Poor
                    thing! whether she thought he was come, or whether her mind misgave her, she had
                    come after me to the head of the stairs, and heard what they were saying. I
                    don't believe she ever rightly knew what had happened, for before I could get to
                    her she had fainted; and she was very ill from that moment.’
                ‘And it was the next day she died!’ said Guy, looking up, after a long silence.
                    ‘Did she—could she take any notice of me?’
                ‘No, sir; she lived but half an hour, or hardly that, after you were born. I told
                    her it was a son; but she was not able to hear or mind me, and sank away,
                    fainting like. I fancied I heard her say something like ‘Mr. Morville,’ but I
                    don't know; and her breath was very soon gone. Poor dear!’ added Mrs. Lavers, wiping away her tears. ‘I grieved for her as
                    if she had been my own child; but then I thought of her waking up to hear he was
                    dead. I little thought then, Sir Guy, that I should ever see you stand
                    there,—strong and well grown. I almost thought you were dead already when I sent
                    for Mr. Harrison to baptize you.’
                ‘Was it you that did so?’ said Guy, his face, mournful before, lighting up in a
                    sudden beam of gratitude. ‘Then I have to thank you for more than all the world
                    besides.’
                ‘Law, sir!’ said Mrs. Lavers. smiling, and looking pleased, though as if but half
                    entering into his meaning. ‘Yes, it was in that very china bowl; I have kept it
                    choice ever since, and never let it be used for anything. I thought it was
                    making very bold, but the doctor and all thought you could not live, and Mr.
                    Harrison might judge. I was very glad just before he came, that Mr. Markham came
                    from Redclyffe. He had not been able to leave poor Sir Guy before.’
                Guy soon after set out on his homeward ride. His yearning to hear of his mother
                    had been satisfied; but though he could still love the fair, sweet vision
                    summoned up by her name, he was less disposed to feel that it had been hard upon
                    him that she died. It was not Amy. In spite of his tender compassion and
                    affection, he knew that he had not lost a Verena in her. None could occupy that
                    place save Amy; and his mind, from custom, reverted to Amy as still his own,
                    thrilled like a freshly touched wound, and tried to realize the solace that even
                    yet she might be praying for him.
                It was dreariness and despondency by day, and he struggled with it by energy and
                    occupation; but it was something even worse in the evening, in the dark,
                    solitary library, where the very size of the room gave an additional sense of
                    loneliness; and in the silence he could hear, through the closed shutters, the
                        distant plash and surge of the tide,—a
                    sound, of which, in former years, he had never been sensible. There, evening
                    after evening, he sat,—his attention roaming from his employment to feed on his
                    sad reflections.
                One evening he went to the large dark dining-room, unlocked the door, which
                    echoed far through the house, and found his way through the packed-up furniture
                    to a picture against the wall, to which he held up his light. It was a portrait
                    by Lely, a half-length of a young man, one hand on his sword, the other holding
                    his plumed hat. His dark chestnut hair fell on each side of a bright youthful
                    face, full of life and health, and with eyes which, even in painting, showed
                    what their vividness must have been. The countenance was full of spirit and joy;
                    but the mouth was more hard and stern than suited the rest; and there was
                    something in the strong, determined grasp of the sword, which made it seem as if
                    the hand might be a characteristic portrait. In the corner of the picture was
                    the name—‘Hugo Morville. Æt. 20, 1671.’
                Guy stood holding up his light, and looking fixedly at it for a considerable
                    time. Strange thoughts passed through his mind as the pictured eyes seemed to
                    gaze piercingly down into his own. When he turned away, he muttered aloud,—
                ‘He, too, would have said—‘Is thy servant a dog, that he should do this?’’
                It seemed to him as if he had once been in a happier, better world, with the
                    future dawning brightly on him; but as if that once yielding to the passions
                    inherited from that wretched man, had brought on him the doom of misery. He had
                    opened the door to the powers of evil, and must bear the penalty.
                These feelings might partly arise from its having been only now that, had all
                    been well, he could have been with Amabel; so that it seemed as if he had never
                    hitherto appreciated the loss. He had at first comforted himself by thinking it
                    was better to be without her than to cause her distress; but now he found how hard it was to miss her—his bright angel.
                    Darkness was closing on him, a tedious, aimless life spread out before him, a
                    despair of doing good haunted him, and with it a sense of something like the
                    presence of an evil spirit, triumphing in his having once put himself within its
                    grasp.
                It was well for Guy that he was naturally active, and had acquired power over his
                    own mind. He would not allow himself to brood over these thoughts by day, and in
                    the evening he busied himself as much as possible with his studies, or in going
                    over with Markham matters that would be useful to him to know when he came to
                    the management of his property. Yet still these thoughts would thicken on him,
                    in spite of himself, every evening when he sat alone in the library.
                The late hours of Christmas Eve was the time when he had most to suffer. The day
                    had been gloomy and snowy, and he had spent it almost entirely in solitude, with
                    no companion or diversion to restore the tone of his mind, when he had tried it
                    with hard study. He tried to read, but it would not do; and he was reduced to
                    sit looking at the fire, recalling this time last year, when he had been cutting
                    holly, helping the sisters to deck the house, and in the evening enjoying a
                    merry Christmas party, full of blitheness and glee, where there were, of course,
                    special recollections of Amabel.
                As usual, he dwelt on the contrast, mused on the estrangement of Mrs. Edmonstone,
                    and tormented himself about Charles's silence, till he fell into the more
                    melancholy train of thought of the destiny of his race.
                Far better for him to bear all alone than to bring on Amy grief and horror, such
                    as had fallen on his own mother; but it was much to bear that loneliness and
                    desolation for a lifetime. The brow was contracted, and the lip drawn into a
                    resolute expression of keeping down suffering, like that of a man enduring acute
                    bodily pain; as Guy was not yielding, he was telling himself—telling the tempter, who would have made him
                    give up the struggle—that it was only for a life, and that it was shame and
                    ingratitude to be faint-hearted on the very night when he ought to be rejoicing
                    that One had come to ruin the power of the foe, and set him free. But where was
                    his rejoicing? Was he cheered,—was he comforted? Was not the lone, blank
                    despondency that had settled on him more heavily than ever, a token that he was
                    shut out from all that was good,—nay, that in former years there had been no
                    true joy in him, only enjoyment of temporal pleasure? Had his best days of
                    happiness been, then, nothing but hollowness and self-deception?
                At that moment the sound of a Christmas carol came faintly on his ear. It was one
                    of those tunes which, when the village choir were the only musicians he knew, he
                    had thought unrivalled; and now, even to his tutored, delicate ear, softened as
                    it was by distance, and endeared by association, it was full of refreshing,
                    soothing harmony. He undrew the curtain, opened the shutter, and looked into the
                    court, where he saw some figures standing. As soon as the light shone from the
                    window, the carol was resumed, and the familiar tones were louder and harsher;
                    but he loved them, with all their rudeness and dissonance, and throwing up the
                    window, called the singers by name, asking why they stood out in the snow,
                    instead of coming into the hall, as usual.
                The oldest of the set came to the window to answer,—so old a man that his voice
                    was cracked, and his performance did more harm than good in the psalms at
                    church.
                ‘You see, Sir Guy,’ said he, ‘there was some of us thought you might not like to
                    have us coming and singing like old times, 'cause 'tis not all as it used to be
                    here with you. Yet we didn't like not to come at all, when you had been away so
                    long, so we settled just to begin, and see whether you took any notice.’
                ‘Thank you. It was a very kind thought, James,’
                    said Guy, touched by the rough delicacy of feeling manifested by these poor men;
                    ‘I had rather hear the carols than anything. Come to the front door; I'll let
                    you in.’
                ‘Thank you, sir,’ with a most grateful touch of the hat; and Guy hastened to set
                    things in order, preferring the carols to everything at that moment, even though
                    disabused of his pristine admiration for James Robinson's fiddle, and for Harry
                    Ray's grand shake. A long space was spent in listening, and a still longer in
                    the endeavour to show what Mr. Ashford meant by suggesting some improvements
                    which they were regarding with dislike and suspicion, till they found Sir Guy
                    was of the same mind. In fact, when he had sung a verse or two to illustrate his
                    meaning, the opinion of the choir was, that, with equal advantages, Sir Guy
                    might sing quite as well as Harry Ray.
                It was the first time he had heard his own voice, except at church, since the
                    earlier days of St. Mildred's, but as he went up the long stairs and galleries
                    to bed, he found himself still singing. It was, 
                        
                            Who lives forlorn,
                            On God's own word doth rest,
                            His path is bright
                            With heavenly light,
                            His lot among the blest.
                        
                    
                He wondered, and remembered finding music for it with Amy's help. He sighed
                    heavily, but the anguish of feeling, the sense of being in the power of evil,
                    had insensibly left him, and though sad and oppressed, the unchangeable joy and
                    hope of Christmas were shedding a beam on him.
                They were not gone when he awoke, and rose to a solitary breakfast without one
                    Christmas greeting. The light of the other life was beginning to shine out, and
                    make him see how to do and to bear, with that hope before him. The hope was
                    becoming less vague; the resolution, though not more firm, yet less 
                        despond-
                        desponding
                     ing, that he would go on to grapple
                    with temptation, and work steadfastly; and with that hope before him, he now
                    felt that even a lifetime without Amy would be endurable.
                The power of rejoicing came more fully at church, and the service entered into
                    his soul as it never had done before. It had never been such happiness, though
                    repentance and mournful feelings were ever present with him; nor was his
                    ‘Verena’ absent from his mind. He walked about between the services, saw the
                    poor people dining in their holly-decked houses, exchanging Christmas wishes
                    with them, and gave his old, beautiful, bright smile as he received
                    demonstrations of their attachment, or beheld their enjoyment. He went home in
                    the dark, allowed Mrs. Drew to have her own way, and serve him and Bustle with a
                    dinner sufficient for a dozen people, and was shut up for the solitary Christmas
                    evening which he had so much dreaded, and which would have been esteemed a
                    misfortune even by those who had no sad thoughts to occupy them.
                Yet when the clock struck eleven he was surprised, and owned that it had been
                    more than not being unhappy. The dark fiends of remorse and despair had not once
                    assaulted him, yet it had not been by force of employment that they had been
                    averted. He had read and written a little, but very little, and the time had
                    chiefly been spent in a sort of day-dream, though not of a return to Hollywell,
                    nor of what Redclyffe might be with Amy. It had been of a darkened and lonely
                    course, yet, in another sense, neither dark nor lonely, of a cheerless home and
                    round of duties, with a true home beyond; and still it had been a happy,
                    refreshing dream, and he began the next morning with the fresh, brightened
                    spirit of a man who felt that such an evening was sent him to reinvigorate his
                    energies, and fit him for the immediate duties that lay before him.
                On the breakfast-table was what he had not seen for a long time—a letter directed
                    to him. It was from Mr. Ross, in answer to his
                    question about Coombe Prior, entering readily into the subject, and advising him
                    to write to the Bishop, altogether with a tone of friendly interest which,
                    especially as coming from one so near Hollywell, was a great pleasure, a real
                    Christmas treat. There was the wonted wish of the season—a happy Christmas—which
                    he took gratefully, and lastly there was a mention that Charles Edmonstone was
                    better, the suffering over, though he was not yet allowed to move.
                It was a new light that Charles's silence had been occasioned by illness, and his
                    immediate resolution was to write at once to Mr. Ross, to beg for further
                    particulars. In the meantime, the perception that there had been no estrangement
                    was such a ray as can hardly be imagined without knowing the despondency it had
                    enlivened. The truth was, perhaps, that the tone of mind was recovering, and
                    after having fixed himself in his resolution to endure, he was able to receive
                    comfort and refreshment from without as well as from within.
                He set to work to write at once to the Bishop, as Mr. Ross advised. He said he
                    could not bear to lose time, and therefore wrote at once. He should be of age on
                    the 28th of March, and he hoped then to be able to arrange for a stipend for a
                    curate, if the Bishop approved, and would kindly enter into communication on the
                    appointment with Mr. Halroyd, the incumbent. After considering his letter a
                    little while, and wishing he was sufficiently intimate with Mr. Ashford to ask
                    him if it would do, he wrote another to Mr. Ross, to inquire after Charles; then
                    he worked for an hour at mathematics, till a message came from the gamekeeper to
                    ask whether he would go out shooting, whereat Bustle, evidently understanding,
                    jumped about, and wagged his tail so imploringly, that Guy could not resist; so
                    he threw his books upon the top of the great pile on the sofa, and, glad that at
                    least he could gratify dog and man, he sent word that he should be ready in five
                    minutes.
                
                He could not help enjoying the ecstasy of all the dogs, and, indeed he was
                    surprised to find himself fully alive to the delight of forcing his way through
                    a furze-brake, hearing the ice in the peaty bogs crackle beneath his feet;
                    getting a good shot, bringing down his bird, finding snipes, and diving into the
                    depths of the long, winding valleys and dingles, with the icicle-hung banks of
                    their streamlets. He came home through the village at about half-past three
                    o'clock, sending the keeper to leave some of his game at the parsonage, while he
                    went himself to see how the work was getting on at the school. Mr. and Mrs.
                    Ashford and the boys were come on the same errand, in spite of the cloud of dust
                    rising from the newly-demolished lath-and-plaster partition. The boys looked
                    with longing eyes at the gun in his hand, and the half-frozen compound of black
                    and red mud on his gaiters; but they were shy, and their enmity added to their
                    shyness, so that even when he shook hands with them, and spoke good-naturedly,
                    they did not get beyond a monosyllable.
                Mr. and Mrs. Ashford, feeling some compunction for having left him to his
                    solitude so long, asked him to dinner for one of the ensuing days, with some
                    idea of getting some one to meet him, and named six o'clock.
                ‘Won't that put you out? Don't you always dine early?’ said he. ‘If you would let
                    me, I should like to join you at your tea-time.’
                ‘If you will endure a host of children,’ said Mr. Ashford.
                ‘I should like it of all things,’ said Guy. ‘I want to make acquaintance very
                    much,’ and he put his hand on Robert's shoulder. ‘Besides, I want to talk to you
                    about the singing, and how we are to get rid of that fiddle without breaking
                    James Robinson's heart.’
                The appointment was made, and Guy went home to his hasty dinner, his Greek, and a
                    little refreshing return afterwards to the books which had been the delight of
                    younger days. There was no renewal of the burthen of despair that had so long
                    haunted his 
                        even-
                        evenings
                     ings. Employments thickened on his
                    hands as the days passed on. There was further correspondence about Coombe Prior
                    and the curate, and consultations with Markham about farmer Todd, who was as
                    obstinate and troublesome as possible. Guy made Markham come to Coombe Prior
                    with him, examine and calculate about the cottages, and fairly take up the
                    subject, though without much apparent chance of coming to any satisfactory
                    result. A letter came from Mr. Ross, telling him even more than he had ventured
                    to hope, for it brought a message from Charles himself. Charles had been
                    delighted to hear of him, and had begged that he might be told how very sorry he
                    had been not to write; and how incapable he had been, and still was; but that he
                    hoped Guy would write to him, and believe him in the same mind. Mr. Ross added
                    an account of Charles's illness, saying the suffering had been more severe than
                    usual, and had totally disabled him for many weeks; that they had since called
                    in a London surgeon, who had given him hope that he might be better now than
                    ever before, but had prescribed absolute rest for at least six weeks longer, so
                    that Charles was now flat on his back all day, beginning to be able to be
                    amused, and very cheerful and patient.
                The pleasure of entering into communication with Hollywell again, and knowing
                    that Charles at least would be glad to hear from him, was so exquisite, that he
                    was almost surprised, considering that in essentials he was where he was before,
                    and even Charles could not be Amy.
            
            END OF VOL. I.
        
    
