
     ----CITATION----
        Linton, E. Lynn (Elizabeth Lynn) (1822-1898). The Autobiography of Christopher Kirkland, Volume 3. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 317 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (23-October-1998).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7019
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHRISTOPHER KIRKLAND.
                
                BY MRS. LYNN LINTON,  AUTHOR OF ‘THE TRUE HISTORY OF
                    JOSHUA DAVIDSON,’ ‘PATRICIA KEMBALL,’ ‘THE ATONEMENT OF LEAM DUNDAS,’ ‘UNDER
                    WHICH LORD?’ ETC.
                IN THREE VOLUMES.
                VOL. III.
                
                    LONDON: 
                    RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON, Publishers in Ordinary to Her Majesty the
                        Queen.
                
                1885.
                [All Rights Reserved.]
            
        
        
        
            
            THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CHRISTOPHER KIRKLAND.
            
                CHAPTER I.
                SOCIETY was beginning to busy itself with the question of woman's rights
                    when I was young. Now it is an established cause, aggressive where it was then
                    only a protest. Naturally I was, and am, among those who hold that women, though
                    helpmates, should not be slaves to men; that duties do not exclude rights; and
                    that ‘He to God, she to God through him,’ though
                    pretty enough in poetry, makes but a mighty poor kind of life for her in
                    practice, and reduces co-partnership to serfdom. My own creed in these things
                    may be summed up in these three clauses:—That women should have an education as
                    good in its own way as, but not identical with, that of men; that they ought to
                    hold their own property free from their husbands' control without the need of
                    trustees, but subject to the joint expenditure for the family; that motherhood
                    should be made legally equal with paternity, so that no such miserable scandal
                    of broken promises and religious rancour as this later Agar-Ellis case should be
                    possible. But these are only the alphabet of the movement; the main theme goes
                    far beyond.
                Things had already begun to move. Talfourd's Bill, giving the custody of young
                    children to the mother, had been passed after a stout resistance from the Law
                    Lords on the Obstructive side. One of these said
                    that, should this Bill become law, the avenues to the Court of Chancery would be
                    choked with applicants for legal separation, as nothing but the fear of being
                    parted from her children kept many a wife with her husband. The prophecy was
                    disregarded; the Bill passed; and married life in England has gone on much the
                    same as before.
                The sensational part of the matter was, the story of that man in the Marshalsea
                    prison who took his suckling babe from his wife and handed it over to his
                    mistress—a possibility of action on all fours with the vilest features of
                    slavery.
                It is wonderful to think how we supported such hideous injustice; just as it is
                    wonderful now to think how the absolute power of making a will, and thereby
                    leaving all his property away from his wife and children, is still maintained as
                    part of the rights of a man. The argument of trust in the natural softness of
                    the parental instinct is about as solid as a drum. It makes a fine sound when nicely struck; but it is a rickety
                    kind of foundation to build on.
                Though the core of this question of woman's rights is just and reasonable, some
                    of its supporters were even then too extreme for my ideas of what was fitting. I
                    could not accept the doctrine that no such thing as natural limitation of sphere
                    is included in the fact of sex, and that individual women may, if they have the
                    will and the power, do all those things which have hitherto been exclusively
                    assigned to men. Nor can I deny the value of inherent modesty; nor despise
                    domestic duties; nor look on maternity as a curse and degradation—‘making a
                    woman no better than a cow,’ as one of these ladies, herself a mother, once said
                    to me indignantly; nor do I join in the hostility to men which comes in as the
                    correlative of all that has gone before. On these points I have parted company
                    with the cause. But in the beginning these points had not come to the front.
                
                Also, I have confessed already to the frivolity of finding many of these
                    extremely advanced women antagonistic to my ideas of feminine charm. Most of
                    them then, in the early days, were not only plain in person but ill-bred in
                    manner. The epigram of the time, ‘Women's Rights are Men's Lefts,’ was truer
                    then than it is now, when the circle has widened. In the first cast the net took
                    in, as by far the largest proportion, the most unpersonable and the least
                    love-worthy of the sex. But this æsthetic distaste on my part was what the
                    Americans call ‘mean’ in view of the gravity of the principles involved, and I
                    was always ashamed of my own childishness of judgment.
                I tried to make myself tolerant of all this unloveliness, by remembering that the
                    cause, being in the initial stage of protest and insurrection, must necessarily
                    be supported by those who had nothing to lose and all to gain, as well as
                    necessarily 
                        sur-
                        surrounded
                     rounded by that kind of exaggeration
                    which is inseparable from the beginning of radical innovations. But tolerance is
                    an exotic with me, got by painful processes of self-discipline and preserved
                    only with care and watching. When I was in my fighting age, it was either the
                    crime of indifferentism or of time-serving, and I put it behind me as
                    high-treason to truth.
                This is the penalty attached to earnestness—the harsh lining of enthusiasm.
                My present intolerance, I am sorry to say, was even less respectable than this.
                    It was simply a matter of taste; and the cause undeniably suffered with me
                    because so many of its advocates were ungainly and unlovely.
                In those days the movement did not include the political rights which—the rest
                    having been won—make now the point to be gained. It was more for the right of a
                    liberal education, such as is given by Girton and Newnham; for office-work; and
                        specially for leave to enter the medical
                    profession on an equality with men.
                In this last I was again at issue with the sect. Unless the demand for female
                    doctors was strong enough to support female schools and hospitals, I maintained,
                    and maintain, the inexpediency of providing a few lady-doctors by means of mixed
                    medical education—just as I dislike mixed drawing-classes from the nude. These
                    two things seemed to me repugnant to every sentiment of morality or decency in
                    either sex; and I have never been able to change my view. For, granting that in
                    the end science and art conquer all sense of shame and bear down all
                    consciousness of sex, then surely the last state is worse than the first—and
                    these young unmarried women have killed within them something more valuable than
                    they will replace by the knowledge of anatomy and the human figure.
                As yet, however, mixed life schools were not in force—I only knew of one in
                        those days, private, little known and
                    conducted secretly; and but few young women had clanked into the
                    dissecting-room. Miss Garrett, the two Misses Blackwell and Dr. Mary Walker are
                    all that I remember. There may have been others, but if so I did not know of
                    them. The aftermath of flirting, touzled, pretty young creatures—foolish virgins
                    of eighteen or nineteen—by whom the ground has been covered, had not then
                    sprouted into being; and as yet the world was spared the oracular utterances by
                    which these Hypatias seek to regulate all the difficulties and pronounce on all
                    the questions of life and science.
                Speaking of Dr. Mary Walker, I may as well say here that the Bloomer costume
                    which she wore, with that huge rose in her hair as her sign of sex, did much to
                    retard the woman question all round. The world is frivolous, no doubt, but here,
                    as in France, ridicule kills, and you can force convictions sooner than tastes.
                    When that handsome barmaid in Tottenham Court
                    Road put on trousers as a greater attraction to gin-drinkers, not only
                    Bloomerism received its death-blow, but the cause got a ‘shog' maist ruined a'.’
                    It survived, however; and now flourishes like a green bay-tree.
                Equal political rights; identical professional careers; the men's virile force
                    toned down to harmony with the woman's feminine weakness; the abolition of all
                    moral and social distinctions between the sexes;—These are the confessed objects
                    of the movement whereby men are to be made lady-like and women masculine, till
                    the two melt into one, and you scarcely know which is which.
                Since those early days of which I am now writing, much of what was then agitated
                    for has been granted, and many abuses have been removed. One of the most
                    important was the Bill which raises the age of the child necessarily left to the
                    mother in cases of separation, from 
                        Tal-
                        Talfourd's
                     fourd's three and a half to seven
                    years—giving afterwards to the child the right at sixteen to choose between its
                    parents. This short Bill, of two clauses only, slipped through the house
                    unnoticed; and I have always held it for good that the Emancipated Women did not
                    get wind of it, and by their clamour draw on it the attention, and consequent
                    hostility, of the Conservatives. The Married Women's Property Act has given the
                    widest range of freedom possible in any kind of partnership. Girton and Newnham
                    minister to the intellectual cravings of girls and supply stimulus for their
                    ambition. Female colleges and hospitals make the study of medicine decent, and
                    India offers a lucrative and useful field of practice. Slade-schools give Adam
                    and Eve in all their desired nudity, and young unmarried women exhibit
                    themselves on the walls of the Academy naked and not ashamed. The Post Office
                    and the Telegraph Office put money into the pockets 
                        of
                        o
                     some hundreds of industrious girls;
                    and there is at least one female firm—there may be more, but I know only of
                    one—which ‘devils’ for lawyers, and makes a good thing by its labours. Other
                    women do other things of a like nature. Some keep co-operative stores and some
                    breed horses and some again make books and understand the mysteries of fields
                    and favourites, ‘two to one bar one’ and hedging, better than they understand
                    the science of housekeeping or the art of needlework. The School-Boards test the
                    value of their administrative faculty; and Lady Harberton's divided skirt
                    satisfies the sentiment and does not shock the taste.
                Thus, in all directions, the running has been more equalized, and women are now
                    handicapped mainly by their sex. On that point they have to try conclusions with
                    nature. To break up the cradles for firewood must be the first step in the
                    series of transformations; for as long as that obstructive cradle exists, and is
                    filled, there must be the division of labour
                    and function against which women revolt, and men must fare forth while they bide
                    within.
                When the cause was yet young it found its nidus chiefly in the house of one who
                    brought as her contribution a fair person, a good position, money, fervour,
                    sincerity, intelligence, the oddest and most catholic sweepings of adherents,
                    and only just not enough liberality to tolerate opposition. She herself was
                    singularly sweet and charming; thoroughly feminine, her doctrines
                    notwithstanding; and without the affectation and exaggeration which characterize
                    the mass of the pretty persons who have gone over to this side in these later
                    days. In those, she was almost the only pretty woman the cause could boast. Her
                    house was the rendezvous for all Liberals of all kinds; and one of the causes
                    she and her husband had at heart was that of emancipation and the equalization
                    of the negro race. I remember one of her protégés was a certain Miss 
                        Red-
                        Redmayne
                     mayne a woman as black as her own
                    American grapes; who had studied medicine under the Stars and Stripes and who
                    now wanted to practise it under the Union Jack. She was a dreadful looking
                    woman, with a kind of devouring, wild-beast air, oppressive and almost
                    terrifying. Her glittering eyes and tufted hair, wide mouth, white, pointed
                    teeth and jet-black skin, made her remarkable enough in a room full of
                    fair-faced Saxons; but add to these a curious rapacious manner—an eager,
                    restless, following way in eye and foot, unlike anything seen in ordinary
                    society—and it is easy to understand how antipathetic she must have been to the
                    majority, even of Liberals. I shall never forget the way in which she followed
                    up a fair-haired, slightly-built artist to whom she was talking. He edged away,
                    step by step—she always following close on his track—till he finally edged
                    himself into the corner, where she had him at her will. So there they were, a
                        black cat and a white mouse; and the poor
                    white mouse shivered, while the black cat pranced triumphant.
                My friend, our hostess, thought it mean and cowardly that no English gentleman
                    came forward to marry this unlovely daughter of Ham. I should have held it as an
                    act of madness if anyone had.
                It was in this house that I first met Mr. and Mrs. Lambert, with whom I made one
                    of those intimate friendships which invariably lead to sequels and
                    complications.
                Joshua Lambert was an artist, shiftless, dreamy, unpractical, morally
                    self-indulgent, personally pure and ascetic; a man who could live on bread and
                    spring-water, but who would not work in his studio when he wanted to be out in
                    the sunshine, and who exhaled in thought all the strength that should have gone
                    into action. He was a man whom everyone loved and was sorry for—regretting his
                    want of practical grip, while reverencing the beauty of holiness which pervaded his whole nature. And yet, between the
                    two, love predominated, and reverence was stronger than regret.
                His wife was a woman of like nature, but with more ‘go’ in her than he had—with
                    an active force behind her wanting to him. He was a dreamer of ideal beauty, she
                    was a worker for ideal perfection. Thus their views were harmonious while their
                    methods were diverse.
                She was a Woman's Rights woman from head to heel. A kind of antitypical Louise
                    Michel, doubled with a Madonna, she gathered under the wide cloak of her womanly
                    pity all the suffering and downtrodden, all the oppressed and all the
                    unfortunate. She knew no blame save for the fashionable and the frivolous. The
                    core of her morality was charity; the mainspring of her character, purity; the
                    force by which she worked, belief in the all-pervading Providence of God.
                    Married and a mother, but still almost virginal in her modesties, she abhorred licentiousness as something even worse
                    than murder. At the same time she reverenced love as the true marriage, and when
                    this was real she held other ties superfluous.
                Thus, she was one of the guests at that famous supper given to his personal
                    friends and sympathisers by Mr. —, when, with his wife's hardly-won consent, he
                    brought up his children's governess as his acknowledged supplementary wife, and
                    with but thin ideas of decency called together this cloud of witnesses to
                    celebrate the nuptials. For herself, Esther Lambert was as chaste and pure as
                    ice and snow; but her Liberalism and sympathy supplied what was wanting to her
                    temperament, and she could accept in another an action which she would rather
                    have died than have committed in her own person.
                She was a lecturer of some repute; and her platform life was the result, not only
                    of her belief in the righteousness of the things she advocated, but also of the need there was for adding to the tale of
                    loaves, which, at the best, came in but scant numbers for the many hungry little
                    mouths to be fed. As it was, the ordering of the household was narrow to penury
                    and its simplicity touched on destitution.
                The first time I went down to their house on the borders of Epping Forest, I felt
                    as if I had got into a new world—one with which my experiences on this old earth
                    of ours had no point in common, and were of no use as guide nor glossary.
                    Playing in the neglected, untrimmed garden, where never tree nor bush was lopped
                    nor pruned, and where the long grass of the lawn was starred with dandelions and
                    daisies as better flowers than those which man could cultivate, was a troop of
                    little children, one of whom was more beautiful than another. They were all
                    dressed exactly alike—in long blouses of that coarse blue flannel with which
                    house-maids scrub the floors; and all had 
                        pre-
                        precisely
                     cisely the same kind of hats—the
                    girls distinguished from the boys only by a somewhat broader band of faded
                    ribbon. Nazarenes, even to the eldest boy of fourteen, they wore their hair as
                    Nature ordained in long loose locks to their shoulders. It was difficult to
                    distinguish the sex in this queer epicene costume, which left it doubtful
                    whether they were girls Bloomerized or boys in feminine tunics; for the only
                    differences were—cloth trousers for the boys, cotton for the girls, and the
                    respective width of the hat-ribbon aforesaid. But they were lovely as angels,
                    and picturesque as so many Italian studies; so that amazement lost itself in
                    admiration, and one forgave the unfitness of things for the sake of their
                    beauty.
                The house itself was found and furnished on the same lines. There were no
                    carpets, but there were rare pictures and first proofs unframed; casts of noble
                    cinque-cento work, darkened with dust; superb shells; and all the precious lumber of an artist's home, crowded on
                    shelves of rough-hewn, unvarnished deal set against the unpapered white-washed
                    wall. There were not enough chairs for the family, and empty packing-cases eked
                    out the deficiency. For their food, meat was a luxury; wine as rare as Olympian
                    nectar; and sweetmeats were forbidden as the analogues of vicious luxury. Milk,
                    bread, vegetables and oatmeal, with treacle as the universal sweetener, were the
                    food-stuffs by which the Lamberts believed they should rear a family consecrated
                    to the work of God in the world and the carrying out of the regeneration of
                    society. The boys were to be great artists or divine poets. The girls were to be
                    preachers or prophetesses. One or two might be told off as mothers, to keep up
                    the supply of the Chosen. But, for the most part, their sphere of activity would
                    be the world, not the home—their care, humanity, not the family.
                
                No man nor woman who knew her could have failed to love and reverence Esther
                    Lambert. No matter how little you sympathized with her methods, you could not do
                    other than respect and admire her personality. Her face was the face of a
                    Madonna, behind whose sweetness flashed the inspired enthusiasm of a sibyl. It
                    was the most perfect combination of moral purity and intellectual ardour to be
                    found, and drew all hearts to love, like that Blue Glory of Torcelli. Earnest
                    and religious, something beyond the ordinary thought of humanity seemed to shine
                    in her soft grey eyes; and had she announced herself another Mother of God, she
                    would have found some to believe her by the very force of her own inner truth
                    and purity. As it was, she stopped short of miracles, and contented herself with
                    inspiration.
                Her political creed was her religion; the emancipation of woman was her mission;
                    the equalization of the sexes was her shibboleth; but the supremacy of woman was her secret sacrament. She believed in the
                    regeneration of man by this supremacy, and by this only. All masculine modes of
                    dealing with nature and society were false and futile. No good could come of
                    political economy, of sociology, of science, of statesmanship. All these were of
                    the nature of Dead Sea apes and the Unveracities. But, once admit women into the
                    domain of active politics, and then would come the moral millennium. Deception
                    would be burned out of diplomacy, to leave the pure gold fillet of mutual
                    candour unclogged by dross of any kind; abstract right would take the place of
                    godless expediency; wars would cease; territorial aggressions and annexations
                    would be no more; and the reign of peace and truth, of justice without flaw, and
                    perfect purity of life alike for men and women, would begin. She believed all
                    things of the future and she hoped all things from the present. She had neither
                    fear nor misgiving; and her faith saw in every
                    day so much advance, and in every circumstance a coign of vantage gained and
                    held for future progress. A new society for the advocacy of any form of Liberal
                    opinion was to her equivalent to a victory. A pamphlet was another gospel which
                    must compel assent. A speech was like a judgment of Solomon which no one could
                    repudiate. Her life was the perpetual ascending of a rainbow—an endless mounting
                    of the ladder let down from heaven, with angels before and on each side, showing
                    her the way and directing her steps. Her faith bore her up over all dismaying
                    obstacles; and when bad times were on hand within, as was so often the case—when
                    the family wanted food and the house wanted funds—she would raise her beautiful
                    eyes to heaven, and say, serenely smiling: ‘God will provide.’
                And so far as they had yet gone, ravens had supplied them somehow; and the
                    children had not starved.
                
                Esther's theological creed was a large loose jumble of Christianity and
                    Pantheism, the chief working tenets of which were:—belief in the direct personal
                    superintendence of God over the affairs of men, faith in the power of truth and
                    the invincibility of the right, with the correlative belief that falsehood would
                    not prevail nor wrong ultimately conquer because of this personal rule of God
                    and the ‘stream of tendency’ in humanity.
                ‘Men and women want only to be told the better thing—to be shown the higher way,’
                    she used to say earnestly. ‘No one wishes to do wrong. It is simply ignorance,
                    not wilful intention, which leads us astray. When all men are taught of God,
                    then they will of necessity act justly. The Truth is God; and God's laws are the
                    ultimate laws of life. It is only a question of time; and in the end they must
                    prevail.’
                For all its vagueness, her enthusiasm gained on me. Her arc was very wide, and though not drawn with mathematical precision
                    and rather sketchy in its lines, it was nevertheless grandly suggestive. Her
                    words were full of that heroic promise, that mysterious magnificence, which
                    surrounds the shining domes of a city seen from afar in the morning light. By
                    noon we shall be there to see with our own eyes the treasure lying therein—to
                    find the lady of our dreams; the brother consecrated to our friendship from our
                    birth; the teacher who will show us the meaning of the Great Cabbala; the
                    hierophant who will take the veil from off the face of Isis. Her words stirred
                    my imagination as much as noble scenery stirs it; and I felt her to be a kind of
                    dynamic power to which others must apply the direction—but she was always that
                    power.
                I used to attend her lectures—I, the declared enemy of the whole tribe of lady
                    lecturers!—and I always vigorously applauded her. I made it up somehow 
                        be-
                        between
                     tween my consistency and my
                    partisanship by convincing myself that Esther Lambert was essentially different
                    from all the others. She was so real in her self-devotion, her sincerity, her
                    faith in herself and her cause! There was no playing a part, anyhow; just as
                    there was no consciousness, no simper, no affectation and no vulgarity. She
                    spoke well too, and did not offend one's taste by matter nor manner. She did not
                    touch on doubtful subjects; and she had always more the air of an old-time
                    prophetess, re-embodied, than that of a modern lady-lecturer spouting on a
                    platform to a half-curious and half-disdainful audience. She was so completely
                    absorbed in her subject, and so earnest to do good, that she won my admiration
                    all round; and I approved in her what I condemned in others.
                For all that, I wished her little tribe had been better cared for, better taught
                    and nourished and more practically handled than they were; that the house had
                        been less of a squalid and disorganized
                    barrack than it was; and that her husband had been a little more the master and
                    head than she allowed him to be. Maybe he would not have guided things a whit
                    better; but it would have been more seemly, and his influence over the boys
                    would probably not have been quite so emasculating as hers. I was Philistine
                    enough to feel that the saint is less useful than the housekeeper, and that
                    Mary's part is not always the most profitable.
                Still, this fractional want of sympathy with the fringes of things did not touch
                    the substance of my respect and liking for the Lamberts. And as I was not
                    responsible for the life they made together, and as really it was not in my
                    right to either criticize or condemn, I was glad to be their friend, and to love
                    where I could not follow.
                After I had known them about three years, Joshua Lambert died. He had often been
                    ailing, and the fatal disease which had
                    threatened him for so long, and which I always must think might have been
                    averted by a little common-sense and care, at last declared itself in
                    unmistakable fashion enough. He died of rapid consumption in less than two
                    months from the first visit of the mesmeric herbalist who attended him. For of
                    course the Lamberts were believers in both mesmerists and herbalists. They were
                    mystic all through; and clairvoyant prescriptions, dealing with natural simples,
                    field-grown, were to them saturated with a spiritual power wanting altogether to
                    the coarser therapeutics of allopathists and their mineral medicines.
                Naturally, I was much with my poor friends at this time. They clung to me like
                    children, and I was glad to put all my resources at their disposal. Strength and
                    energy—time and money—I poured all into their hands, and thought nothing lost
                    which gained them ease. I was deeply interested in them. They had fascinated me
                    by their very strangeness, linked as this was
                    to so much goodness and so much beauty; and feeling myself to be of use to them
                    seemed to compensate me for the loss of her whom her creed—and Christ—had taken
                    from me. The simplicity with which they accepted all I did for them, as of the
                    natural order of things, had also its charm.
                Looked at from their point of view, it was better than gratitude; because it was
                    the right thing to do, and if I were a true man I could do nothing else. They
                    would as soon have thought of praising me for not telling lies nor picking
                    pockets, as for bearing the burden of friends too heavily laden to bear it for
                    themselves. Of course, this kind of communism brought about a closer intimacy,
                    and on my side a still deeper affection—the helper always loving the
                    dependent.
                At last the end came. Poor beauty-loving and unpractical Joshua Lambert took his
                    last look of the blessed sun, and smiled his
                    last wan smile up to the face of day and all he loved. He died as he had lived,
                    without struggle as without regret; without bitterness, and in love with all
                    mankind; full of faith in his own enduring blessedness beyond the grave and in
                    the Divine goodness for those he left behind; sure that his dear ones would be
                    cared for by the Father—working principally through me.
                Not an hour before he breathed his last hard breath he said, with a faint flicker
                    of his old boyish smile and that tranquil assurance which had so often amused me
                    in the difficult moments of past times:
                ‘I leave them to you, dear friend. I have always held that God sent you to us for
                    our good, and I die quite happy, sure that you will accept your charge and
                    fulfil its obligations.’
                ‘Do not be afraid, Joshua,’ said Esther tenderly. ‘Chris knows his duty, and he
                    has never failed in it yet.’
                
                I need not spread out this part of my life in detail. In view of what followed,
                    it is too full of pain to be willingly dwelt on. So much only I need say:—I was
                    in that frame of mind which made benevolence my greatest solace and my only
                    happiness. I had the desire to sacrifice myself for the well-being of others,
                    feeling in this self-sacrifice my purest balm. I had given up my love for
                    truth:—now I wanted to give myself as an offering to God, through man. Believing
                    still in spiritual direction, and in the moral governance of the world through
                    duties and chastisements, I believed that I was indeed specially ordained by God
                    to serve and save this family. I had come among them at the moment when they had
                    had most need of me. Joshua had lived just long enough to consolidate our
                    friendship; and among all they knew I was the only one who could really help and
                    practically benefit them. It would be a good thing to do. If I could rescue a
                        noble creature like Esther Lambert from the
                    degrading influences of debt and poverty, bring a more rational rule into the
                    household, and set her children well before the world by a more wholesome
                    education, I should redeem the past. If I could not be happy in my own highest
                    and deepest affection, I could at least make others blessed; and in their
                    well-being find my own.
                I thought over all this, and prayed for guidance with all the fervour of my
                    boyish days. My prayers, of course, answered themselves, and asking for Divine
                    Direction only strengthened my own inclination. Full of desire to serve one whom
                    I loved and respected—eager to make loyal response to the poor dead friend who
                    had trusted me—seeing only all that was beautiful in Esther's nature and pitiful
                    in her condition—loving the children like my own, and earnest to see them better
                    cared for, better taught, more wisely guided than they were—my common-sense
                    overweighted by religious zeal and altruistic
                    pity, by affection, by principle and by hope—I took the irretrievable step; and
                    in less than two years from Joshua's death I married his widow and took her
                    family for my own.
                Behind this strange fact lay contradictions yet more strange. Personally, Esther
                    failed to satisfy my taste. She was short, ungraceful, and careless in her
                    dress, which was also of notable neglect. She was unthrifty; without method; and
                    of the two she preferred disorder to regularity. Nothing could make her punctual
                    nor orderly; and the love of free nature which left the daisies and dandelions
                    on the lawn and forbore to lop the low-growing branches of the trees, manifested
                    itself in the house by a liberal dislocation of hours and the want of
                    circumscription—of apportionment—all through. But she was earnest, sincere,
                    devoted, gentle-mannered; and she had that perilous gift of loving idealization
                    by which she made one see one's best and highest self—one's ideal angel—mirrored in her mind as the work-a-day
                    commonplace human being. And I was blinded by the splendour of the Divine
                    handwriting on the wall, which I thought bade me do this thing; and by my
                    somewhat arrogant belief that I was strong enough to remould and to save.
                I do not mean to say that I married with any personal reluctance, but I do say
                    that I married with more sense of duty than of attraction, and that I knew I was
                    making a sacrifice. But it was a sacrifice willingly made—for God's sake and for
                    humanity's, represented by that desolate widow and her children. No action of my
                    life was ever based on more simple religiousness of feeling, on a more entire
                    sense of duty than was this. In none did I ever wish to do so well for others,
                    with so little regard for my own condition.
                One thing, by the way, I stipulated for as a sacrifice on Esther's side; she was
                    to give up her public life and keep to her home like any other wife and mother. What in the beginning had
                    helped to fascinate the friend on the outside of things, revolted the husband
                    who had made himself responsible for the conduct of the family. I confess this
                    frankly. Whatever of egotism, of inconsistency may lie in the admission, I make
                    it, and accept the blame accruing. The home which Joshua Lambert had found
                    sufficient for his happiness would be the grave of mine; and I could no more
                    have lived in the neglect, disorder, unthrift and squalor which had been the
                    normal condition of things in his time, than I could have lived in a wigwam with
                    a Cherokee Indian for my squaw. Hence I stipulated for the abandonment of the
                    platform for the fireside, and for the maintenance of a more conventionally
                    ordered household.
                I also urged Esther to give me a list of her debts; but this I could never get
                    from her. Not because she was ashamed; nor because she wished to conceal them;
                        simply because she could not understand the
                    value of financial order, and had always that trust in ravens and things coming
                    right of themselves which despises effort. I could not convince her of the need
                    of method, regularity, foresight, or any other economic virtue. She was sweet in
                    word and acquiescent in manner; smiled; promised compliance—and indeed did much
                    that I wished because I wished it. But I never touched the core. I had modified
                    the envelope for a time; but before I had been married two months, I asked
                    myself the question: ‘How long will this last? Will temperament and long usage
                    prove too strong for the new practice? and, Will the bent bow spring back and
                    the strained cord break?’
            
            
            
                CHAPTER II.
                I HAD furnished my house with such taste as I possessed and such
                    sufficiency as my means would allow; and I had made it what I thought would
                    please my wife to live in, and interest her to keep in good condition. I say
                    ‘I,’ because she left all the details to me, down to the most intimate
                    arrangements. Our rôles were inverted from the beginning, and I had to be man
                    and woman both. She had no taste, she said. She did not care whether a room were
                    blue or brown, green or yellow. She thought it a pity—and more—to spend on
                    material the time and money which should be
                    given to humanity; and she could not be made to approve of that which she
                    regarded as the maladministration of a trust. But as it was my own money that I
                    was spending, she let it pass without active opposition, and contented herself
                    with being a kind of passive drag on the wheel, neither aiding nor
                    preventing.
                Also she allowed me to change the ordering of things for the children. Their
                    epicene costume was put off for the ordinary jackets and frocks of ordinary
                    English children; the boys were sent to school, a governess taught the girls at
                    home. She used to laugh at their studies, but quite good-naturedly, without
                    malice or bitterness—only with a little gentle ridicule; the ridicule of
                    superior insight and higher aims—finding art and literature mere waste of
                    precious time, and woman's work, such as sewing and the like, degrading to the
                    finer functions. Still, she left Miss Palmer, the governess, very much to herself, and did not interfere in her curriculum.
                    She was indeed very sweet and complaisant in those early days; and of two
                    threads, the white is as true as the black.
                All things in the house, and the house itself, being new and fresh, the radical
                    defects of my wife's character as a mistress were not at the first visible.
                    Though I objected to the children amusing themselves by carving fancy arabesques
                    on the side-board, playing at ball in the drawing-room, slitting up the
                    oil-cloth, and the like, things went on with peaceful serenity; and for the
                    first two months we ‘stood on velvet.’ Also, the sense of security from poverty,
                    of rest from strain, of a stable background and a strong arm on which to lean,
                    won Esther to a certain amount of domesticity and made many things in her new
                    life comforting and joyful. Then she liked me in a way that had the charm of
                    novelty. She looked up to me as more practical
                    than herself, and as having a surer judgment in worldly matters; and for the
                    time she laid aside her own and accepted my responsibility, which was like
                    taking breath on an uphill climb. To Joshua she had been a goddess, immaculate
                    and absolute. Her will had been his law, and he had placed his honour in his
                    worship and his manhood in his obedience.
                ‘She is my Madonna,’ he once said to me. ‘I know no higher revelation than her
                    will.’
                Consequently she had loved him with that kind of spiritual supremacy, that kind
                    of intellectual condescension, which had sometimes wearied her and made her long
                    for at least equality in her companion.
                ‘If only I could find some one who would say “No” to my “Yes”!’ she said to me
                    one day, when she had sought counsel of her husband and had received only
                    acquiescence.
                She had found in me what she had often longed
                    for in Joshua—that is, a strong individuality and a clear will; definite aims
                    and sharply defined thoughts; and at the first, as I say, the novelty pleased
                    her and she enjoyed this new phase of love and life. But—
                Though by nature and temperament Esther was purely feminine, by habits of life
                    she had become unsexed in the way of personal independence and political
                    activities; and very soon the restrictions of home began to irk and gall. She
                    submitted at the outset because of novelty and because of gratitude; but she
                    submitted of her own free will, as her gift of grace, not her duty. And what she
                    gave she felt that she could at any moment reclaim. While it was pleasant to her
                    to be loved for her compliance rather than respected for her power and obeyed as
                    an almost inspired autocrat, she was the very soul of sweet surrender. When it
                    should become no longer pleasant—what then?
                
                In the details of the house-management my wife was, of course, absolute mistress;
                    in the general ordering I was master. That is, I demanded a well-regulated
                    interior, good manners in the children, no debts, and neither insufficiency in
                    the commissariat nor extravagance in the supplies. I interfered not at all in
                    the working of these general laws; but I was firm on the main points; and I
                    thought I was in my right to require the niceness and refinements of a
                    gentleman's home.
                For the rest, Esther was naturally unhindered. She kept her own friends and asked
                    them to the house when she would; and I always bade them welcome and gave them
                    good cheer. She went and came as she would, subject only to the necessary
                    restraints of a family life, and I never questioned nor interfered. I, on my
                    side, was as free. But soon she began to object to my friends. She wanted me to
                    forswear them as worldly, fashionable, frivolous, 
                        un-
                        ungodly
                     godly; and when I would not, she made
                    the house so painful to them that for self-respect they could not return.
                Also she began to disregard those times and rules without which no home-life can
                    go on with comfort or decency. For an eight o'clock breakfast she would come
                    down at ten; for a six o'clock dinner she would appear at eight: and she took it
                    as unloving—not disrespectful, but unkind—if we sat down without her. This was
                    disastrous for us all. For my own work it was ruinous; for the children,
                    destructive both to their health and education. But remonstrance made matters
                    worse, and the only way in which I could touch my wife was by a tender kind of
                    coaxing flattery—beseeching her to do of her own free, grand, loving heart that
                    which was the absolute obligation of her plain duty. And I ask, how is married
                    life possible under such conditions?
                Again, I had occasion to be disturbed on account
                    of the expense at which we lived. And yet we did not seem to live extravagantly.
                    The lines on which our home was based were modest, and well within my income;
                    but I had to draw largely from such savings as the furnishing of the house had
                    left; and my hope of making provision for the future was merged in the fear that
                    my earnings would not cover our expenditure. Money ran away like water in sand.
                    Where did it go? This was a subject on which Esther was strangely sensitive; and
                    I could not get her to explain how it was that we lived so simply and yet spent
                    so lavishly. Even her hospitalities to poor patriots and penniless
                    propagandists, large as they were, did not appear to cover that ever-increasing
                    margin; and to this hour I do not know into what underground channel the surplus
                    flowed.
                Naturally I held that I was in my right as a partner, to put it no more strongly,
                        to lay it on my wife's conscience, both for
                    my sake and her children's, to be more careful, more exact. She could not bear
                    the mildest remonstrance on the money question, but turned back on me all that I
                    complained of in her, and said that I was the one to blame, because of the
                    criminally extensive base-lines on which the whole home had been constructed.
                    Poor soul! By this time novelty had worn itself threadbare and the original
                    stuff showed through.
                She had grown weary of it all; weary of her part of wife whose husband was at the
                    head of affairs; of her duties as house-mistress, restrictive and necessitating
                    some amount of self-sacrifice as they did; of the order and regularity of a
                    well-conditioned home; of the need of conventional, I should say civilized,
                    propriety, which she confounded with fashionable frivolity—of all that makes the
                    sign-manual of gentlehood in domestic life and personal habits. So long 
                        accus-
                        accustomed
                     tomed as she had been to a
                    hand-to-mouth kind of existence, where Providence had been her bank and Chance
                    had paid her dividends, she resented my prosaic precision as faithlessness, and
                    accounted it to me as moral cowardice that I should take thought for the selfish
                    things of to-morrow, when the altruistic things of to-day needed doing.
                These discussions on money were the first real rifts in the lute; and they
                    widened day by day. They precipitated the end which must have come under any
                    conditions. For I see now that my marriage had no real element of stability in
                    it. Unless Esther or I could have radically changed, we must have made shipwreck
                    on one of the many rocks ahead. And though we struck first on that of my
                    worldliness, others had to come.
                There crept into our lives a certain mystery which I have never been able to fathom. A young Pole, who was said to have
                    escaped from prison, was brought to our house in my absence by one of my wife's
                    political friends, and an asylum was begged for him. Who he was, what he was,
                    what he had done there or was doing here, I did not know then and I do not know
                    now. That he was the centre of some movement and held the strings of some plot
                    was evident; but in what direction, and to what end, were kept from me. I only
                    knew that he was a refugee called M. Boris, and that my wife and he had a secret
                    together which included certain experiments in chemistry, photography, and
                    printing—all of which were conducted in an upper room, whence I was rigidly
                    excluded.
                Some of my own possessions disappeared at this time. Letters from eminent
                    political men which had come to me in the way of business, and two
                    Foreign-Office passports, which had served me
                    in my former wanderings, were taken from my writing-table drawers,
                    notwithstanding those patent locks which were pronounced unassailable. I never
                    found a trace of my lost property; and when I accused M. Boris, Esther's
                    passionate indignation was so intense as very nearly to make an end of
                    everything. Finally she sealed my mouth by declaring that she herself had taken
                    those papers, for what purpose she would not say. I might kill her, she said,
                    but she would never confess.
                I had nothing for it but to accept her declaration as she made it; though, as I
                    still connected M. Boris with the affair, I insisted on it that he should leave
                    the house. The sequel proved that I took nothing by my action. I only diverted
                    the channel, I did not stop the outfall.
                My wife's domesticity gave way as suddenly as a house of cards falls to the
                    ground. The old fever of propagandism, the
                    craving for political activity, blazed out afresh. She flung up the reins,
                    saying that all life was not centred in clean table-cloths and the accurate
                    adding-up of butchers' bills; and that the highest duties of a faithful servant
                    of God and lover of humanity were not to be found within the four walls of home.
                    Any honest maid-of-all-work could do the work that she was doing now, but that
                    for which she was specially consecrated was lying undone, with no one to take it
                    up. Her sphere was in political morality; her duty was to preach the rights of
                    the weaker and liberty for all the oppressed. To give to one household only,
                    albeit her own, the energies meant for humanity at large, was desertion of her
                    flag and infidelity to God.
                In vain I argued, pleaded, rebuked, reasoned—was now, I am ashamed to say,
                    violently angry, with all the passion and excess of my old undisciplined days,
                        and now as violently sorry. Esther was not
                    to be moved; and, by this time, a distinct flavour of personal dislike to me
                    added strength to her resolve as well as bitterness to her feelings. It was not
                    wonderful then that she went back on the old track, the new having failed to
                    satisfy her. In a week's time from our first stormy discussion my wife's name
                    was placarded on all the hoardings in London, and she was announced as giving a
                    lecture on the 16th—the subject being, ‘The Down-trodden Nationalities of
                    Europe.’
                I was grieved, disappointed, humiliated and angry. I thought that my wife's
                    affection for me should have been deeper than it proved to be; that, looking at
                    things in the most prosaic light of reciprocity, the friendship I had had for
                    her and hers, the help I had given them in times past, the heartiness with which
                    I had adopted her children and done my best to benefit them, and the sincerity
                    with which I had sought to build up her ruined
                    home and take her out of poverty into sufficiency, should have secured from her
                    some consideration for me in return. I was wrong. I had not calculated on the
                    force of that nature which, expelled with a pitchfork though it may be, is sure
                    to come back in spite of the prongs. I had no help for it. The strong hand of a
                    husband is all very well to talk about. What if the wife resists? You cannot
                    lock her up, nor create a public scandal. You have to bear what you do not like,
                    or break with her altogether. And as I was not then prepared to do this, I had
                    to take my philosophy in both hands and make the best of things as they were—bad
                    enough as they were in all conscience!
                The dyke had broken down just as the pitchfork had failed. My wife went back to
                    her old ways with all the keener zest, because of the cessation which had
                    strengthened and rested her. She was every
                    where but at home—now in Carlisle and now in Falmouth—at Norwich one week, at
                    Swansea another, lecturing and agitating on every conceivable subject connected
                    with Liberal politics, but always sincere—always the Madonna doubled with the
                    sibyl—always enthusiastic, pure, beautiful, religious and unpractical.
                The home and the children were thrown entirely on my hands, and I had to do the
                    best I could for them. The young governess, Miss Palmer, was too timid to be an
                    efficient lieutenant and the eldest girl was too young. The house was neglected
                    and ill-conducted; and the servants were but inadequate mistresses of affairs
                    and unsatisfactory mistresses of themselves. When Esther was by chance at home,
                    the place was like an office with the coming and going of many women and men,
                    her coadjutors. When she was away she billeted on me, in her place, consecrated
                    friends who continued the work and kept up the ball.
                
                Finally, things came to a complete disruption, as was inevitable. My wife
                    suddenly announced her intention of going back to the old house in Epping
                    Forest. She must do her life's work, she said, for she knew that she was called,
                    and that it was God's will she should abandon the flesh-pots of Egypt for the
                    purer manna of righteousness. Our marriage, though not broken by the law—there
                    was no cause for divorce on either side—had been a failure, a mistake, and must
                    be in perpetual abeyance henceforward. She was sorry she had yielded to
                    temptation and gone into the snare of worldliness with me; but she had done so
                    unwittingly, believing that I was as whole-hearted as herself. She had found
                    instead that I was worldly, unregenerate, Laodicean; caring more for persons
                    than for principles; not knowing what truth meant; devoted to pleasure; greedy
                    of praise; a traitor to the cause; shallow rather than broad; a miserable
                        pretence and a sham, not a reality. God had
                    called to me as to her from the heights of Sinai, and I had knelt with the
                    idolators and worshipped the Golden Calf rather than the Living and Eternal
                    Jehovah. As she had expected when she had married to have found in me a faithful
                    disciple and not a renegade to the cause of righteousness—a helper and not a
                    hinderer—she was justified in breaking a social bond which was antagonistic to
                    higher duties, and was both a lie and a snare. God was greater than man, and His
                    laws were beyond ours. God called her to His work as He had called the prophets
                    before her. And, even as Christ had forsaken father and mother, and life itself,
                    to fulfil His Father's mission, so must she forsake me and all the material
                    advantages of our union for her Father's work. She was testifying for the truth;
                    and in abandoning me she was abandoning the world, the flesh and the devil,
                    which I 
                        repre-
                        represented
                     sented for the one part and served
                    for the other.
                All this she said with the passionate fervour of conviction; and, like Warren
                    Hastings when he heard Burke's indictment against him, I held my breath, and
                    wondered if what she said were indeed true.
                Was I really the base and ignoble creature she painted? God knows! I was only
                    conscious of having tried to do my day's work faithfully to be loyal to my
                    principles and true to the light by which I walked; obedient to my conscience,
                    and honest before God and man. When she accused me of this unfaithfulness—this
                    moral dishonour—I remembered my Love, and what my devotion to the truth, as I
                    had made it for myself, had cost me. And I took heart of grace to hope that I
                    was less vile than my wife believed me to be, and that for all my many glaring
                    faults and radical defects she had judged me below my deserving. Rather indeed, than that she left me
                    because she had found me too worldly and insincere to live with—I, whose
                    marriage with her had been a sacrifice in every part, and who had not deceived
                    her in one fact, one feeling of my whole life—I preferred to believe that she
                    had outlived the love which had never been more than fancy. She had gone through
                    the pleasure found in the first novelty of an assured life, and had tired of her
                    very comforts.
                She was one of those ascetic Bohemians who frankly prefer poverty and disorder to
                    sufficiency and regularity. Give her the choice, and she would rather have a
                    dish of herbs on a bare table than a stalled ox with glass and silver and damask
                    as the adjuncts. All conventional proprieties irked her; and it was positive
                    pain to her to be brought into line with the ordinary habits of the ordinary
                    world. For though one might well deny her wisdom, no one could doubt her
                    sincerity; and for all the humiliation she
                    heaped on me, I desire only to speak with respect of her.
                To illustrate her wholeness of character: I remember the first evening party to
                    which we went after we were married, when she wore an evening gown, how she
                    blushed for shame and wept for sorrow, and could scarcely be persuaded to dress
                    herself in what was to her the livery of sin. It was unfitting, she said; and
                    more—it was wrong. While there was a poor woman in England who wanted a pair of
                    shoes, she had no right to more than was absolutely necessary for decency. All
                    superfluity was robbery; and this silk gown was a crime.
                In the children's dress she allowed no ornament of any kind, and she never went
                    beyond grey for the colour. One of our first discussions of an animated kind—not
                    broadening into a quarrel—was, when I bought for the eldest girl a pretty kind
                    of pink stuff I had seen in the shop-window that I thought would suit her age and complexion. Esther refused to allow
                    the child to wear it. The beginning of womanly evil was in personal vanity, she
                    said; and no daughter of hers should learn to take pleasure in dress, nor think
                    twice how she should best win admiration.
                These matters, trivial as they are, show the thoroughness of her asceticism, and
                    explain other things which perhaps lie deeper than the mere gratification of the
                    senses. Certainly, they explain the impatience which, after a time, she felt
                    with the order, the very beauty, of the home I had made for her; and how she
                    went back to that barrack on the borders of Epping Forest as one suffering from
                    nostalgia goes back to the old home.
                So ended the family life to which I had grown pleasantly accustomed. The children
                    had become as dear to me as my own; I had none of my own, and they took the
                    place of these. I had done my best for them in
                    such things as I held to be vital to their interest. But since my wife had
                    learned to despise me, she had opposed all my action with regard to them. My
                    advice was tainted with the sin of worldly-mindedness. I was the enemy of truth
                    and the advocate of insincerity; I was, therefore, not fit to counsel those whom
                    she hoped to make thorough like herself. Hence, by the logic of
                    conscientiousness, she held that she not only consulted the highest good of her
                    children, but also that she obeyed the express will of God, when she repudiated
                    my counsel and opposed my wishes. Wherefore I had ceased to be of good to them,
                    and had become only a hindrance instead. I felt that it was better for her
                    children to be brought up in the one simple atmosphere of their mother's
                    influence, than in the storms and dissensions of two such opposing currents of
                    thought as hers and mine had become. They were hers too; they were not mine; and she had the most right to them. So I let
                    her go first to the old barrack without me, where she lived after her own rules,
                    and thence to America, where she said her life's work was to be found.
                Had things been different between us, I would have thrown up everything in
                    England, and I would have gone with her. I could have written in America as well
                    as here, and perhaps with even better results. Had my wife still loved and
                    respected me, even while she differed from me—had she not begun to treat me with
                    systematic neglect and intolerable contempt—had she not thought it her duty to
                    oppose me in everything, merely because it was I who proposed; as a saint should
                    deny the devil, not because he offered evil, but because it was the devil who
                    offered anything at all—had she not made her own life apart, and kept every fact
                    in that life a profound secret from me—nor stood between me and the children,
                    teaching them to doubt my moral worth, my truth
                    and sincerity, and to refuse my right of rule—I would have kept with her to the
                    end. But a continuance of my present life was impossible, would I retain one
                    shred of self-respect. So I bade them farewell; and they started on their voyage
                    alone.
                When my home was finally broken up and all things were swept away, I found myself
                    possessed of only a few shillings as my sole capital. My last investment was
                    sold to pay the last of the household bills; and the clearance was complete. I
                    was just where I had stood twenty years ago, and had lost in my marriage the
                    whole of my private means. This was the least of my troubles. I was strong and
                    in the meridian of my working powers; and I could always make my way. But when I
                    had to ask the most genial and friendly of my two chiefs for an advance of fifty
                    pounds to float my stranded bark into serviceable waters again, I felt as if
                        the whole thing had been a dream, and that
                    I was once more a boy, with all my life to make anew.
                Now that time has dulled the edge of sorrow and dissolved all the bitterness in
                    the cup, I can look back on things as they were and appreciate them at their
                    true value. I blame my wife in nothing. We are what we are, and we cannot act
                    differently from ourselves—at least, not for long. My wife had mistaken a
                    passing fancy for love, and had found out her mistake by use and wear. While she
                    liked me, she believed me good; when she ceased to care for me, she found me
                    evil. Judged from her own point of view, she was right to repudiate me and all
                    my works in the matter of her own life and with respect to the children. Less
                    extreme than she, I was just by so much the farther from the grace of truth; and
                    to keep my pace would have been consenting with sinners. She despised as
                    sensuality and worldliness all that I held
                    essential to gentlehood; and she carried on to me personally the same
                    repudiation, because I was moderately well-born and had both the habits and
                    traditions, the likings and the fastidiousness, of a gentleman. I lost all hold
                    on her imagination, her taste, her esteem, her love.
                ‘You have lost your charm for me,’ she said one day, quite quietly, without anger
                    or passion. ‘Joshua kept his beauty for me to the end. You have lost yours.’
                Yes; I had lost all personal charm for her because I had lost all moral value;
                    and her very repugnance to me was a proof of her own sincerity.
                It was strange how deeply the loss of my home-life affected me. I had never
                    pretended to love Esther as I had loved—as I still loved—Cordelia; nor to find
                    in her that idealizing and poetic fascination I had found in Adeline Dalrymple.
                    My first love had been my boyish romance; my
                    second the rooted reality of my manhood; but she, my wife, had been my friend,
                    my companion, my housemate—my regard for her had been very true—and the
                    sentiment that I had helped her in her hour of need, and done well for her
                    fatherless children, had been one of the holiest joys of my life.
                Now, when I stood alone in the desert, I knew that all this past happiness had
                    been illusion; as I knew that all the future way must be in isolation—that I and
                    the consciousness of disappointment must be for ever one, and that I must live
                    in a solitude of heart more complete than any I had ever yet known. For the
                    first time I asked myself that bitter question: Was life indeed worth the pain
                    it brought?—Was its joy equal to its despair?
                Days came and went, and weeks passed into months, like clouds over a river rather
                    than as landmarks planted four-square on the solid ground of fact. I looked back
                    on a mirage and forward into vacancy. The
                    present had no comfort, and there was no future to make amends. I was debarred
                    from all hope of love, and I could never rebuild my wrecked and ruined home.
                    Time was too short now to enable me to make a fortune worth having—for I was
                    only a worker, not a speculator; and I had suddenly lost that personal ambition
                    which had glorified my boyish dreams of success. Large as was my volume of
                    vitality—strong as were my energies—with all my passionate determination to
                    conquer fate and make a good thing of life and fortune—to never own that I was
                    beaten, nor to give up the struggle while one hour's sunlight remained—the
                    strain under which I had lived for so many years had told on me; and the
                    disappointment of my last hopes, the frustration of my latest endeavour,
                    completed my temporary demoralization.
                I existed only. I did not live, in the true sense of the word. That is, I neither
                    loved nor hoped. I shrank from the world as a
                    wounded animal creeps into the jungle. Indeed, by now I had scarcely any world
                    from which to shrink. The advanced class and all Esther's friends condemned me
                    for my separation; and by the fact of my marriage, and from its outset, I had
                    given up most of my own acquaintances—or the few whom I had still retained had
                    given me up, affronted by my wife's hostile manner when they had called to see
                    us. So that now, save one or two intimate personal friends, I was alone. And
                    society, like fortune, was all to be won afresh.
                This stretch of backwater into which I had drifted, by turning my mind inward,
                    brought back over me the flood of speculation which for some time now had been
                    dammed up by action and a certain stability of negation, as well as by a great
                    deal of positive affirmation. Ever and ever in the solitude of the evening and
                    the stillness of the night came thronging about me those unanswerable questions touching the meaning of the
                    universe; the end of life; the action of the Great First Cause on this entangled
                    web we call human history; our relations with the unseen; the ultimate evolution
                    of the ‘mind-stuff’ which lies behind matter; the self-consciousness of matter;
                    the destinies of the human race; the destiny of the individual soul; and how far
                    the Unknown will be for ever the Unknowable—those questions which we cannot
                    answer yet cannot stay, and which sometimes seem as if they must land the seeker
                    in the pathless maze of madness. What did it all mean? In the wilderness we call
                    life, who can strike the right road? In the darkness we call faith, who can come
                    to the light?
                One dominant ray had long seemed to me to be the true illumination—one
                    unassailable fact had been my solid foothold—GOD! I believed in a Great First
                    Cause, providential, intelligent, loving; to be
                    spiritually communicated with by prayer; informing humanity; directing history;
                    but unrevealed, save in the mind of man and physical creation—His act and
                    incorporate idea. I believed in the truth of the religious instinct, though all
                    religions were equally symbolic in their structure, and their iconology was
                    equally untrue as human fact. Buddhism was as true as Mohammedanism; Brahminism
                    was as real as Judaism; and the Christian Trinity was no more actual than the
                    Twelve Great Gods whom it banished from Olympus. The self-evolved purity of
                    Buddha was like the Hidden Wisdom of Christ; and both were the outcome of that
                    human faculty—that stream of tendency—which attains to righteousness by
                    endeavour. The aspiration towards a higher life, the belief in a divine power,
                    which underlies all religions alike—this was the immutable and imperishable
                    core. The form, the name, was the mere provisional envelope. The only advantage which one faith had over another,
                    seemed to me to be in the relative power of expansion left to the human
                    intellect, the liberality of its formulas, and the smallest amount of historic
                    untruths and scientific absurdities mixed up with its theology. Hence
                    Unitarianism had long been the nearest approach to Truth that I could
                    find—Unitarianism founded on the Christian basis, where denial of the divinity
                    did not include disregard for the doctrines of Christ.
                But now, both solid comfort and spiritual enlightenment seemed to fail me here.
                    One of the congregation, I was on the outside of the body and not harmonious
                    with the teaching. That most eloquent preacher of them all, at last ceased to
                    hold me. His sermons were poetic, beautiful, full of spiritual imagination, but
                    there was always in them a limitation of inquiry, and that dogmatism of unproved
                    assertion which prevented my full assent. They
                    assumed their premises too absolutely, and built up the conclusions too
                    arbitrarily, where there was really no Q.E.D. Unlike science, which begins from
                    the unit and from the two and two which makes four proves all the rest, his
                    arguments, however clearly defined, were nebulous and unproved, though
                    arbitrary, and you had to grant too much if you would accept the residue. And
                    they were wanting in that human element in which Stopford Brooke, of all men, is
                    most conspicuous. They touched the stronger passions, the more tragic pain of
                    life, with too delicate a hand, too flimsy a sweep; and gave nor heed nor
                    thought to the more turbulent forces of emotion. They were too etherealized for
                    work-a-day uses; and, though on a broader basis than the Established Church,
                    still the doctrines they taught were always theological—always treating the
                    hypothetical as the absolute—and as if he, the preacher, were afraid of opening issues which might admit of
                    divergence, and the consequent wandering of the startled flock—whither?
                One thing, for a time, gave me cause to doubt the justice of my own
                    dissatisfaction and kept me longer in the congregation than else would have
                    been. The spiritual food which did not nourish me was sufficient for Sir Charles
                    Lyell, whose fine and thoughtful face was always to be seen in his place. Yet he
                    was an intellectual giant where I was but a pigmy.
                Since the failure of my marriage, this dissatisfaction with my spiritual state
                    and position had been growing. That thing which I had done with so much pure
                    religiousness of feeling—wherein I had taken counsel of the Lord and believed
                    that I was doing His will and putting my hand to the work He had appointed me to
                    do—that thing had fallen into ruins; and God, who had then seemed to be my leader, had since abandoned me when most
                    needed. No prayers had helped me, no cries for guidance, for patience, for
                    support had been heard. During the dark days of stormy dissension which had
                    prefaced our separation, I had turned to my God, my Father, with all the fervour
                    and passion of my soul. I had carried to Him so much despair, so much bleeding
                    agony of heart, that at last I dared not trust myself in church nor chapel. The
                    passion of it all overwhelmed me with too much violence. And when such hymns as
                    ‘Nearer, my God, to Thee,’ or, ‘My God, my Father, while I stray,’ were sung, I
                    more than once broke down, and was too unmanned to dare a repetition of the
                    trial. But to all my seeking I had no answer. None! none! no more than in those
                    early days of youthful violence and unrest; and the dark solitude in which my
                    soul had lived had been terrible and appalling.
                This want of spiritual consolation as my own
                    experience—this seeking and not finding—gave increased stimulus to those
                    incessant questionings on the meaning of life and the nature of God by which I
                    was now torn as on the rack. I saw dimly the terrible end which I was nearing. I
                    would not confess it, but I was dumbly conscious in my own soul of the result of
                    all this frustration of endeavour. To do in faith and to fail, to cry and not be
                    heard, to ask and not be answered, to struggle and not get free:—there was only
                    one end possible to such a life, and that was—the abyss.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER III.
                ABOUT this time I became acquainted with certain scientists of note, and
                    began to frequent scientific meetings as I had not done before. Hitherto I had
                    devoted myself chiefly to politics, history, literature, and various ‘views,’
                    which it would be presumption to call philosophy; now a new wing was added to
                    the irregularly built mansion, and science had her home with the rest.
                I learned much from what I heard, and sometimes more than the speaker always
                    intended. For the men of that time, so short a while ago, were different from the men of the actual day; and things which
                    are now accepted as incontestable truths were then only in the nebulous or the
                    tentative stage, and you might or might not receive them, at your pleasure.
                    During the last twenty or twenty-five years, science has bloomed and fructified
                    with marvellous vigour and rapidity; but those who did not reap all they sowed,
                    yet sowed well for others to garner. They made the running, if they did not
                    reach the goal.
                John Crawfurd was neither a synthesist nor a scientific revolutionizer. He
                    disbelieved in the ‘Aryan heresy;’ would have no part in the Evolution theory;
                    derided the idea of the Solar myth as in any way incorporated into Christianity;
                    but his labours in ethnology, physical geography and other kindred subjects have
                    helped on the synthesists; and the revolutionizers owe him thanks for at least
                    the use of his shoulders. They sit so much the higher, and know so much the
                    more, for what he has done.
                
                Nor was Sir Roderick Murchison a name wherewith to conjure; yet the
                    palæontologists are indebted to him as much as if the calibre of his mind had
                    been equal to the quality of his discovery, and as if he had been as
                    intellectually great as he was scientifically fortunate. But with him, more than
                    any other scientist of his time, the worth of the work he did was
                    incommensurably beyond himself. It was like the finding of a buried jewel by a
                    child scratching in the garden. The jewel was priceless, but the child had not
                    searched with the intelligence of a mining engineer, and when he had unearthed
                    the treasure his brain was no nearer in weight nor value to that of the engineer
                    than it had been before.
                Again, Robert Chambers, though a brave pioneer in the making of the new road, and
                    one of the first to speak the new language, was in a certain sense
                    pre-scientific. He was the dawn but not the full day. He still accepted for
                    granted things which were not proved nor
                    capable of proof—e.g. spiritualism; and the poetry of his nature,
                    while it added beauty to his intellect, took from the rigid value of his
                    evidence. Still, he saw the true shapes of things, if he did not fill in all the
                    details with perfect accuracy; and his ‘Vestiges of Creation’—which we may now
                    take for granted was his—will take rank for ever as one of the advanced guard in
                    the forces of knowledge as they stand arrayed against those of ignorance.
                In cataloguing my memories of twenty or twenty-five years ago, I see the enormous
                    span which science and free-thought have thrown across the abyss of ignorance
                    and superstition. Twenty-five years ago, Mill's definition of liberty was not
                    the household word it is now. The doctrine that exact laws could be applied to
                    that inconstant quantity, man; laws of averages as precise as mathematics; laws
                    of economic results as certain as chemical combinations; laws governing human conduct and forming the science of
                    sociology as unalterable as those which govern the course of the planets and
                    form the science of astronomy;—this was a new page in the great Book of Life,
                    which many found too hard to read;—and Herbert Spencer's laurel-crown was still
                    growing on the bushes.
                Twenty-five years ago too, our greatest man of all, the true epoch-maker and
                    torch-bearer of this century, he to whom our age owes its characteristic
                    value—Charles Darwin—was in the first of the two stages which every original
                    thinker and revolutionizing discoverer has to pass through. He had a few choice
                    adherents who believed in him; but the learned public disputed his conclusions,
                    the unlearned derided his facts, and the theological remnant denounced him as a
                    lying teacher of iniquity.
                Now he is in the second phase—accepted as an expositor of common-places:—‘What
                    every ploughboy knew generations ago,’ as said
                    to me, contemptuously, a certain Roman Catholic Professor, on the action of
                    worms as set forth in one of the last books.
                Between Darwin and Sir Charles Lyell—the ‘Antiquity’ and the ‘Descent’ of
                    man—however, the cosmogony dear to this Professor and others of his creed
                    becomes a handful of dry dust. When the tip of one of Prince Rupert's drops is
                    broken off, what becomes of the body? So in regard to the old cosmogony; on
                    which other things, held to be more vital, hang like grapes on a severed
                    vine-branch.
                In those days Haeckel and Huxley were not the powers they are now, and Owen was
                    in his zenith. In that famous dispute between these last two, about the
                    hippocampus minor, how well I remember my eager advocacy of our poor relation,
                    and how I rejoiced in the firm, bold arguments of the younger man! My state of
                    mind was conviction, not knowledge; but the want of knowledge did not lessen my
                    ardour of conviction.
                
                Darwin first, and then the spectroscope, opened a new world to me, and one which
                    redressed the balance and recompensed me for all the sufferings and shortcomings
                    of the old. The Unity of Nature was the core of the creed to which I owe my
                    subsequent mental progress—the Doctrine of Evolution that by which I have come
                    to peace. The fact that we have advanced so far already makes all the future
                    possible and reduces pessimism to an absurdity; and the consciousness of fixed
                    laws robs history of all its elements of doubt, incompleteness and partiality.
                    It makes infinite amelioration dependent on man's clear and understanding will;
                    and shows how, by the scientific evolution of morals, systems of government,
                    laws of health, physical well-being and education, we can accomplish things
                    which hitherto have been only the dreams of poets and the fantasies of
                    artists.
                Sir Charles Lyell's book had also an immense influence on me; so had Hugh Miller's ‘Testimony of the Rocks’; for all
                    that this last touched the old faith with as tender and reverent as he grasped
                    the new truths with a strong and manly hand. Sir Charles was in a different
                    category. He was not one of those who ‘builded better than he knew,’ for he
                    looked his own conclusions fairly in the face, and accepted in its integrity
                    every word of the writing on the living scroll which unrolled itself before his
                    eyes. Max Müller's work again was among the charms of my existence in those
                    days. I remember what Grote's ‘History of Greece’ was to me; also the joy that I
                    took in Kinglake's ‘Eothen,’ and, when it appeared, many years later, in his
                    ‘History of the Crimea.’ George Henry Lewes's books added to the general sum of
                    mental content; and George Eliot, just stepping to the front, was a goddess
                    behind a cloud. But a new novel by Georges Sand out-ran hers; and a poem by Mrs.
                    Browning was looked on as an event greater than either.
                
                Still, I had not so much interest in pure literature as I had in science. In the
                    former almost everything had been already said. From Æschylus to Shakespeare and
                    onwards, not many thoughts had been left untouched; but in science were FACTS, and these were of the kind to make a new mental
                    era—a new departure of thought for the whole world, as well as for myself
                    individually.
                It was all in the air. The emancipation of the human intellect from superstition
                    in the substitution of the scientific method for the theological, was the great
                    event of the time and made itself felt everywhere. Brute absolutism and
                    unreasoning authority were set aside in matters intellectual as they had already
                    been in things social, legal, governmental. That which bestrode the reason was
                    flung off into the dust; and even the Church followed with the rest. ‘Essays and
                    Reviews’ had brought on its authors the honour of ecclesiastical 
                        condem-
                        condemnation
                     nation; and Colenso's book, which is
                    now a mere letter in the alphabet of destructive criticism, had been stamped in
                    gold by Convocation as ‘full of errors of the gravest and most dangerous kind.’
                    And yet how far short it falls of both De Wette and Norton!
                Colenso himself was as clear and precise as his arithmetic; and his thoughtful,
                    handsome, refined face was always a beautiful point in the bald-headed crowd at
                    the Ethnological and Royal Societies, where Sir Edward Belcher and Sherrard
                    Osborne sat side by side like two mastiffs unmuzzled. I used to wonder if what I
                    had been told was true, that Captain Belcher had once been forcibly prevented
                    from hanging Sherrard Osborne up to the yard-arm; and, to indemnify himself for
                    his disappointment, had brought him home in irons.
                Strauss's ‘Leben Jesu’ had long been known to the English reading public, thanks
                    to the fine translation by Marian Evans, whose
                    first knot in the quipos of her fame was made by this work. The ripple raised by
                    the ‘Creed of Christendom’ yet ran to the shore; and Newman's ‘Soul,’ as well as
                    his ‘Sins of the House of Hapsburg,’ were moving forces in the world which his
                    brother's ‘Apologia’ and reliance on authority have not arrested in later
                    years.
                ‘Ecce Homo’ and Renan—still later—have given pregnant cause for thought and
                    divergence; but these have not roused the anger which has been caused by coarser
                    and more personal attacks, such as Winwood Reade's ‘Martyrdom of Man’ and
                    Colonel Ingersoll's leaflets; and Lockyer's popularization of astronomy, with
                    the results of the spectroscope, have lifted freethought into a purer because
                    wholly impersonal atmosphere, and brought the witness of unification against the
                    doctrine of direct and separate creation. Those Friday Evening Lectures at the
                    Royal Institution, when Tyndall experimented or Huxley 
                        demon-
                        demonstrated
                     strated—or haply William Spottiswoode
                    or Lockyer tried to bring things ethereal and celestial visibly before our
                    eyes—what evenings in the Court of Paradise those were! How I pitied the poor
                    wretches who did not come to them! Contrast a Queen's Ball and a Friday Evening
                    Lecture—the nothingness of the one and the glorious communion of the other! I do
                    not think there was one in the whole audience who drank in the wine of
                    scientific thought with more avidity than I. Did my own ignorance make that wine
                    but froth? Perhaps. All the same, it strengthened, warmed, exhilarated and
                    almost intoxicated me.
                What a glorious time it was! Everywhere the ground was being broken up in
                    preparation for the great superstructure which has been raised as by an
                    enchanter's wand. Everywhere was a shaking of the dry bones, and the clothing of
                    flesh and sinew on what had been dead and useless fragments buried in the earth.
                    In art and science, in literature and theology
                    alike was a confused noise of Life and of the forces which ran together. It was
                    the birth-hour of a new Truth; and more than a few shepherds heard the heralding
                    Voices which announced it. At no time in our history have the mental activities
                    of England been so vigorous as they were now. And to me also, as I have said,
                    came the Promise—which at first I did not rightly understand—and from the desert
                    where I stood I looked over to the fertile land which as yet lay only faintly
                    outlined in the dawning light.
                My meeting with John Crawfurd brought me into contact with the long, long ago,
                    and made one of those loops in life which are so full of beauty and interest.
                    When we were young, and while we lived at our father's place in Kent, we were
                    much mixed up with three beautiful girls who lived not more than a mile or so
                    from us. All lovely, yet very different, each was strongly individualized. The
                        eldest might have been her namesake of
                    Troy. The second was bright, vivacious, playful, a kind of English-speaking
                    Euphrosyne; and the youngest was the sweetest, gentlest, dearest of them all. We
                    called her Dudù, for indeed she was a very sleepy Venus, and thinner she might
                    have been and yet not lose. She and my beloved brother Godfrey made a summer
                    day's excursion into that enchanted wood of fruitless love, whence is no issue
                    save by tears and the heart-rending of separation. I was a child at the time;
                    but the early friendship of the families, and the romance of this love-affair
                    which we all knew, made it very delightful to me to foregather again with those
                    who were left of these dear people. My new old friend, John Crawfurd, had
                    married the eldest sister of all—one of the most regal and empress-like women I
                    have ever seen—whom I can distinctly remember as one would remember a queen.
                There were other members of the family with whom
                    I was also brought in contact. Let me recall the image of that gracious Lady,
                    just returned from the Drawing-room, as she stood there by the sofa, in her
                    court dress of blue and white and pearls, receiving her guests with the grace
                    and ease, the dignity and the courtesy, of a young queen on her own account. Of
                    all women known to me, Lady — has the most perfect manner. And it is not only
                    manner. Her heart is as kind as her ways are gracious, and she has proved the
                    worth of her moral courage in more ways than one.
                The Dudù of past times has mellowed into a bit of perfection of her kind. The
                    indolent grace of girlhood has become the soft serenity of age, and the sweet
                    temper of the sunny morning has raised itself into the pious pity, the womanly
                    compassion, which makes the evening of life so beautiful, so blessed! Never an
                    old friend lost, and new ones gathering round
                    her, attest her sweetness and give warranty for love.
                When John Crawfurd ended his long and honoured life, more than I lost a friend
                    whom to know was to love, to respect, to look up to—a man who, if not one of the
                    world's leaders, yet was one of the world's helpers—a man who had done his day's
                    work gallantly and well, and whose character was as sterling as his intellect.
                    No truer soul ever lived than he; no kinder, juster, nor more faithful friend
                    and father. His tall and powerfully built figure, just touched by the hand of
                    time, and slightly, very slightly, bent—his handsome face with the eyes still
                    bright, vivacious, penetrating, where the lightning-lines of latent passion
                    flashed across the sweeter and more placid tracts—his noble, white-haired head,
                    and that look of a man who has won all along the line, and who enjoys and does
                    not regret—all made him one of the most striking features of the learned
                        societies where no one was commonplace. And
                    when he went, a power passed out of those where he had been most often seen, and
                    had had most influence, which left them flavourless—at least to those who had
                    loved him.
                So in these late years, when William Spottiswoode died so long before his time,
                    the world lost more than it will easily regain. Mr. Spottiswoode was perhaps the
                    most ideal of all the scientists. Fortune and place, beauty of person and
                    refinement of mind, an intelligence that somehow reminded one of polished steel,
                    and a character as free from base alloy as gold that has been tried in the
                    fire—we do not often find such a combination as this devoted to the furtherance
                    of pure science and to the good of his fellow-men. And now all these forces are
                    dissolved, lost for ever to man and gone into limitless space. And yet they are
                    not lost. The work he did lives after him and is his truest immortality.
                
                I was in no way up to his subjects—none but the higher mathematicians were; but I
                    could understand something of what he said. I remember specially a lecture of
                    his on crystals, and how he seemed to indicate that crystals were on the
                    border-land of consciousness—just below the plastic assimilation and active
                    conversion of protoplasm, but beyond the unchangeable rigidity of metals. That
                    lecture was also one of the starting-points of new thought to me—a nucleus
                    whence my mind branched out like one of the crystals spoken of.
                How many of our good men have been taken! James Spedding was one who touched the
                    crown of the ideal student, whose justness of judgment was on a par with his
                    sweetness of nature, whose intellectual force was matched by his serenity, his
                    patience, his self-mastery, his purity. In the midst of the violent clashings
                    caused by the arbitrary and contradictory dogmatisms which afflict and bewilder
                    us, his quiet breadth, his god-like serenity
                    and all-embracing liberalism, were as refreshing as silence after uproar, as
                    shade in the noonday heat. The way in which he died was the crowning act of a
                    life that had never known bitterness, revenge, nor any strain whatever of the
                    darker passions; and were the world of thought to have its saints, James
                    Spedding would be one of the first canonized.
                Very different were the Amberleys, who also were as grievous a loss to the world,
                    though standing on such a different platform. They carried a more complete
                    integrity of purpose and wholeness of action into their ideas than any of their
                    class known to me; and the brief meteor-like brilliancy of their lives is a
                    subject to me of enduring regret. It would have been well for men and women had
                    they lived and matured; even though they had changed front and taken a new
                    shape. They were too young and eager as things were to have much influence, and
                    their very wholeness, by the slight
                    exaggeration and want of tact which it included, made fewer proselytes than
                    opponents.
                Edward Flower, the handsome Jupiter whose humanity went over to horses after the
                    issue of slavery was closed by emancipation—he also was a man of public note of
                    the time; and he too was thorough. In the early days of the American Civil War,
                    before the introduction of emancipation by the North—the playing of the black
                    knave as the trump card—I was on the side of the South. I took their part
                    because of the Right of Insurrection which I had always upheld. As all of us who
                    were Liberals had sympathized with the revolution in Italy, and the desire of
                    the independent States to consolidate themselves into one kingdom, so we now
                    sympathized with the States in America which desired to get rid of their Union,
                    and to form themselves into a separate nation. I could not see any difference
                    between the two. In both it was the will of the
                    people that I respected—uninfluenced by the differences of aim.
                One day I said this to Edward Flower, as we stood on the hearthrug before dinner
                    was announced; and he very nearly ordered me out of the house, instead of giving
                    me the place at his table destined for me. I think he would have done so, had
                    not Moncure Conway come to the rescue. He defended me, from my own point of
                    view. He condemned that point of view in itself, and showed where it was part
                    crooked and part short-sighted, but, granting my premises as honestly held, he
                    could not see that I was to be condemned. Thus he calmed down the towering wrath
                    of our Jupiter Mecænas, and things went on velvet from the soup to the grapes.
                    But I had skirted by a very unpleasant bit of coast, where I nearly made
                    shipwreck of an old and valued friendship.
                Perhaps the two greatest losses to the world—making a wide leap onward; but this chapter deals so much with the honoured
                    dead!—have been the deaths of Clifford and Balfour. Each had showed only a
                    sample of his quality. Neither had done his day's work nor come to the meridian
                    of his power. When Darwin died, he had lived. He had fulfilled his appointed
                    mission, and planted his Tree of Life fathoms deep in the soil of human thought
                    and knowledge. But these two young men went down to the grave before they had
                    more than begun their assigned tasks; and their slips of the great Yggdrasil, by
                    which heaven and earth are bound together, withered in the darkness of their
                    untimely death. It fills one with sorrow to think what great things each might
                    have done, and the loss to the world through their incompleted lives!
                All this is a very fragmentary notice of the intellects which then were in their
                    vigour or their promise and now have sunk below the horizon. But I am not
                    writing a history of my own times, nor speaking
                    of things and people with whom I had no relation. I am only writing of those
                    with whom I came in contact personally or intellectually, and who were either
                    friends through love or masters through influence.
                As my mind recovered its lost tone by the admission of a new interest, and
                    science worked out the scars left by disappointment, I found a new zest in the
                    work I had never ceased to love. I went as a free-lance under the banner of my
                    old chief, though I never saw him again; and I wrote what struck and made its
                    mark on the things of the time. But my connection with this paper brought me
                    more obloquy than praise. I had something to say, and I said it with what
                    literary force and moral vigour I possessed, indifferent to personal
                    consequences, as I have always been, and as I must ever be now to the end. And
                    those at whom I struck were naturally indignant, and gave me back blow for blow,
                    sometimes hitting below the belt, with even a
                    few odd scratchings thrown in.
                At this time my portion was a strange mixture of literary kudos and personal
                    enmity. I was publicly cut by irate partisans, and no one seemed to think it
                    possible that I had a conscience and was not merely an ‘advocatus diaboli,’
                    opposing that which I knew to be good and bolstering up that which I knew to be
                    evil. But I lived through it, and got good out of it. For I do not think
                    anything enlarges the sympathies or humanizes the mind more than undue
                    condemnation. By what we suffer experimentally we can measure the pain of
                    others; and the injustice which we have to accept we are careful not to pass
                    on.
                Besides independent essays, all more or less dealing with one social subject
                    only, I did a great deal of reviewing for the paper. And as I was notoriously
                    beyond fear or favour, I was trusted with the books of my known friends as well
                    as with those of strangers and new writers. My
                    work was always to me impersonal. I said what I honestly thought of the book as
                    an achievement, and no personal sympathy with, nor hostility to, the writer
                    turned me one hair's-breadth to either side. I put my honour in keeping up the
                    high standard of excellence for which the paper in question was then famous. If
                    a book reached that standard, I praised it; if it did not, I condemned it—and
                    who wrote it did not count. This might have been the work of a stranger, that of
                    a friend—to either circumstance I was indifferent; and the personal favour I
                    have not looked for, nor had shown to myself, I never gave to others. I know no
                    other way of dealing with things than on their own merits; and I should care
                    neither to receive for myself, nor to help others to obtain, that ephemeral
                    reputation which is due to private patronage and not to the worth of the work
                    done.
                I remember one Sunday dining at the house of a
                    clever woman who disbelieved in the general honesty of the press. I had just
                    reviewed a book which she had not read; but she knew the young authoress
                    personally, and believed that she could not have written anything worthy of
                    these encomiums—that no good could come out of this little corner of Nazareth.
                    During dinner the conversation turned on the corruption and venality of the
                    press, and she instanced this notice, which had appeared the day before in the
                    —, as an example.
                ‘That review must either have been paid for, or it was done by a personal
                    friend,’ she said. ‘In neither case was it an honest criticism.’
                ‘Neither one nor the other,’ I answered. ‘I know who wrote it, and I give you my
                    word of honour that the reviewer had never heard the name of the authoress
                    before he received her book, nor was the faintest indication given him of the
                    tone to be taken. It was reviewed on its own merits only.’
                
                For my own part, I can only say that I know nothing of the venality of the press
                    so often spoken of. One hears of ten pounds paid for this favourable notice and
                    ten pounds paid for that; but I take it these sums are like poor Dr. Ashburner's
                    banknotes brought by the strange man on a black horse, and never existed outside
                    the region of imagination. So far as I know, those come worst off who attempt to
                    influence to their own favour the authorities in chief or the workers in detail
                    of any paper that respects itself.
                I know an editor on whom one day called, unintroduced, a lively scribbler. She
                    had just finished a flashy book, which she was not content to leave to be judged
                    of according to its merits, but thought her social standing should be brought
                    into play as a kind of extra lever whereby her work should be hoisted into
                    notice. When she sent up her card—Lady Fourstars—to one who was only a plain
                    Mister and who lived by his pen, while she got
                    just so much more social consideration by hers, and when, after a few moments'
                    conversation, she asked him to dine with her next day, she expected to have made
                    a supple courtier in the place of an incorruptible judge, and to have bought his
                    favourable suffrages.
                The refined scholar who then held the reins of that special journal was revolted
                    by the cynicism of this effrontery; and the lively scribbler gained nothing by
                    her audacity. Her book was dealt with in the ordinary way of business, and
                    neither condemned for spite nor praised for complaisance.
                Officially inflexible, personally courteous, this editor, and one other, were
                    models of their calling—past-masters in their craft. Neither ever betrayed his
                    trust to his proprietors, and neither ever offended even the most susceptible of
                    his unsuccessful contributors. Of one—my dear friend, whose loss we still
                    deplore—it used to be said that it was
                    pleasanter to be rejected by him than accepted by many others. For there are
                    editors and editors; and not all are pleasant to deal with. Some bully you, even
                    when you do your best and your article has the place of honour. They think it
                    due to their own dignity, and a useful check on your vanity, to keep your soul
                    low like a weaned child; to cut down your presumptuous imagining that you are
                    necessary to the paper; to make you understand that they could find a dozen as
                    good as you, and half-a-dozen better, to take your place an hour after you had
                    vacated it. Others are dumb dogs who neither growl nor caress. They say nothing
                    of praise nor blame, and let you know you suit only by silent acceptance. Others
                    again, give you heartening words of encouragement when you fail, and the reward
                    of commendation when you do well. They keep the whole thing alive and healthy by
                    their own vitality, and their contributors add personal zeal to their 
                        intel-
                        intellectual
                     lectual efforts. These are the best
                    editors. They get by far the most out of their staff; and when they go their
                    place is not readily filled—if indeed it ever is!
                But editors are a long-suffering race too, and have their trials like meaner
                    mortals. Not all their young lions roar fitly and in tune; and sometimes, when
                    most wanted, they skulk and do not roar at all. Or they launch the paper into
                    hot water by rash utterances, and the editor has to pay in his own person for
                    the debt of libel incurred by them. That large crowd of ungrammatical folk who
                    believe in private influence rather than in the worth of the work done—who write
                    silly books, then tout for favourable notices—who think that any rubbish
                    whatsoever can be floated by a liberal supply of champagne given to editors and
                    reviewers—and who trust to every reed but good English and something to say for
                    their staff of literary fame—they make one of the many nuisances besetting the
                    editorial chair. Another is that analogous
                    crowd of incapables who ask for undesignated work without giving the flimsiest
                    rag of performance to certify capacity. They think that a publisher's office is
                    like a charitable kitchen, where are always to be found baskets full of broken
                    meat, and where no other qualification than need is necessary for a share of
                    what is going; or that publishers and editors are so many Michael Scotts, who
                    have to supply their demons with work, to save themselves from being torn to
                    pieces. If either idea were true, there might be some sense in the quest. But,
                    seeing that for every loaf there are two claimants, and far more ropes twisted
                    out of sea-sand than any wizard can stow away in his columns, these uncovenanted
                    outsiders have but a poor claim. And were even the editorial business conducted
                    in this centrifugal way, which it is not, their chances would not be worth
                    betting on. As things are, where I pray you is their peg?
            
            
            
                CHAPTER IV.
                I HAD known for some time the ordinary Jews of London Society. I had
                    begun with Mrs. Ben Israel, the little woman who bought her social steps by
                    private gifts, graduated in value according to the condition of the person whom
                    she wished to be seen in her drawing-room, and in whose, in her turn, she
                    herself wished to be seen. This was only according to sound commercial
                    principles. But the two queer things in the transaction were the accurate
                    account which she kept of her gifts under the head of ‘Charities,’ and the way
                    in which she raised the money for them. She borrowed it of young married people on the faith of a will to be made in
                    their favour, wherein she promised to leave sundry Cashmere shawls and rare old
                    laces worth thrice the value of the loan; or to put down the name of their child
                    for double the amount in money. I do not know how many of these wills she had
                    not made, unknown to her husband. After her death, they turned up like
                    stereotyped copies of a bad joke; and who got the initial bequest, or if anyone
                    got anything at all, is also unknown to me.
                The sum she borrowed was generally three hundred pounds. This lasted her for a
                    year or two and went in the purchase of the presents—or, if we give things their
                    right names and call spades spades—these bribes for social consideration. She
                    showered them right and left. They were chiefly bits of embroidery very
                    beautifully done, such as handkerchiefs, shirt-fronts, waist-coats,
                    blotting-books and the like, which she said she herself worked in the
                        solitude of her own room on those off-days
                    when she did not receive. Our then greatest living novelist came in for a fine
                    flowered waistcoat, which she presented to him as her own work and a tribute of
                    admiration. She had paid for it at a shop; and I saw the entry in her book,
                    which one day she showed me. Again, a favourite gift was a bit of her old
                    inherited lace, of which she had a goodly store on the back shelves of the
                    bric-à-brac shops.
                As her husband objected to this crazy application of their income, and would not
                    give her an allowance to cover this quite unnecessary margin, she raised the
                    necessary funds in the way I have said. And only when she died did her several
                    victims find out the practical joke that had been played on them, and learn the
                    true value of the legacy which was to have been rich enough to go twice round
                    the original loan.
                This lady was monstrously proud of her birth. She, Spanish—her husband Arabian —both were of the tribe of Judah, she used to
                    say, stiffening her small person. All the English and German Jews were her
                    inferiors, being of the tribe of Benjamin; and she looked down on them with the
                    traditional contempt of the elder branch for the cadet.
                Her drawing-room was filled with the literary and artistic celebrities of the
                    day. She might have been the model for Mrs. Leo Hunter, had the portrait not
                    been taken before her time from that poor lady whose husband, not content with
                    being well, wished to be better and came to ruin as the consequence. Had our
                    small daughter of Judah been a social circumstance before Pickwick put on his
                    gaiters, the cap would have fitted to a nicety; and her luxuriant shining black
                    hair, of which she was not unreasonably proud, would have received its deserved
                    aureole.
                She forbade her step-daughters, whom she frankly disliked, to come down to her parties. As she would not have allowed them
                    to marry Gentiles, she said, she thought it her duty to keep them out of harm's
                    way. Yet one of these step-daughters was a widow with children; and so far one
                    would have thought able to judge for herself, as well as entitled to the run of
                    the society assembled in her father's house, where also she lived. But my friend
                    did not keep well with her family. Neither her husband nor his daughters,
                    neither the grandchildren nor the governess pleased her; and her details
                    concerning the various thorns which bestrewed her conjugal pillow were
                    embarrassing to hear.
                They were pleasant evenings which the little woman made; and she was both a
                    generous and an attentive hostess. Her suppers, where was always cold fish
                    cooked Jewish fashion, were models of good taste and liberality; and there was
                    that evident desire to give pleasure which makes its mark and sets people at their ease. Her company was certainly on the
                    whole somewhat of a ‘scratch lot;’ not so odd as Mrs. Hulme's queer menagerie
                    had been, but undoubtedly a little mixed. And people did wild things in her
                    house, as they do in places where the rule is relaxed and they feel themselves
                    delivered from social restraints. But we all felt it was going beyond the
                    broadest line of the loosest social stepper when a certain editor—a man whom
                    nothing daunted, and to whom notoriety was fame and singularity distinction—came
                    late into her rooms, on one of her most brilliant evenings, in a frock coat, a
                    crumpled shirt, a black neck-tie rather awry, and muddy boots.
                We did not meet many of her own nation at my friend's house, and only those of
                    good birth, remarkable gifts, or exceptional position. Against the ordinary Jew
                    of large wealth and small beginnings, superb diamonds and defective grammar, she
                    was as exclusive as the most exclusive Christian could have been. She would never allow those she liked to be called Jews in
                    her presence; only ‘Israelites,’ or the ‘Nation.’ Those whom she did not like,
                    she herself stigmatized as ‘low Jews.’ Notwithstanding her social infidelity,
                    she was a strict conformist, and, when the Feast of Tabernacles was about, she
                    and her family lived in green-covered huts built up in the back-garden. She
                    would have thought it a sin to have eaten other than ‘cosher’ meat; but between
                    the two she would not have preferred martyrdom to pork nor even shrimps.
                This ‘cosher’ meat, by the way, beyond its undoubted merit of superior
                    wholesomeness, still remains as a sign and symbol of true godliness among the
                    Nation. Or perhaps it were better to say as a fact which in itself is godliness.
                    I know of one worldly old fellow who, thinking how he could best make his peace
                    with Jehovah, whom he imagined he had offended because his health and strength had decayed, found nothing
                    more pleasing as an act of submission and holiness than the vow never to eat
                    ordinary meat again, but to be strict and faithful to the cosher butcher and the
                    cosher beef. This little instance shows how deep-rooted in human nature is that
                    mental state we call fetishism.
                After our kind little hostess, this black-haired daughter of Judah, had gone to
                    her rest, I got to know more members of the great Semitic family; some of whom I
                    dropped because I did not care for them, while others I count still as among my
                    dearest friends, and love with enthusiasm. There are people whose personality
                    over-shadows their nationality. When with them you never ask whether they are
                    Jews or Christians, English or German. You only know that they are clever,
                    brilliant, trustworthy, high-minded, beautiful; that you would trust your fair
                    fame and fortune in his hands—your happiness and self-respect in hers; that their society is a lovely charm, their
                    friendship a great gift; and that you have to live beyond your follies if you
                    would be worthy of their virtues. Such as these I have known for some time now;
                    also others who are not up to this height, but are just on a level with the
                    current idea of ordinary Jews; but the quiet, home-staying, Gentile-renouncing
                    Jew was a new experience which came to me at a time when the ferment was again
                    beginning in my mind, and which helped on that ferment to a subsidence very
                    different from what was intended.
                In admitting me into their home these religious Jews did me signal honour. Unlike
                    those whose great social aim is to be received by Christians of good standing
                    and old family, these shrink from us still, as Gentiles to whom has been given
                    truly the power of dominion, as was of old time given to the Egyptians, but who
                    are ever outside the courts of Jehovah; while His sons, whom He chasteneth, are His own, even while He
                    punishes and afflicts. And His punishments are mercies in disguise—means of
                    holding them to the truth and of confirming them in faithfulness and
                    righteousness.
                I have always done my best to put myself on the outside of things, and to judge
                    of my own standpoint as it would appear to others. If this weakens tenacity it
                    strengthens liberality; and the thinking world knows now that the latter is
                    better than the former in all matters of unprovable speculation, inasmuch as it
                    is the result of that wider knowledge of men and things which makes the whole
                    difference between cosmopolitanism and parochialism. But I confess it startled
                    me as much as if I had received a blow in my face when I first talked with one
                    of these religious Jews—a man as learned as he was pious—and heard him say:
                ‘We are in truth a living miracle—
                        pre-
                        preserved
                     served by God as a perpetual protest
                    against your idolatry.’
                ‘Idolatry!’
                I cried out against the word with a strange sense of pain and desecration. I had
                    long ceased to believe in the Divinity of Christ, but I had that kind of tender
                    reverence for the faith of my childhood, that kind of theological patriotism, so
                    to speak, which made me shrink as if touched with hot iron, when an alien, an
                    outsider, laid a rude hand on its mysteries.
                ‘What is it but idolatry?’ asked my friend quietly. ‘What else can you call the
                    religion of you Christians, which makes a human being of that Incommunicable
                    God—that Supreme Deity—the Great Spirit of the universe, Jehovah our Lord, whom
                    we Jews worship in spirit and in truth? You pray to a man who, you say, was God
                    Incarnate. You worship one who lived and died a man like yourselves, and who is
                    still a man to you now in Heaven—specially
                    moved to listen to human prayers because of His own human experiences on earth.
                    But we hold that no one has seen God at any time, and that He to whom we pray is
                    beyond all sense. God has been incarnate in man no more than in the Egyptian
                    bull; and your worship of Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph and Mary, is as
                    pure idolatry—that is, the worship of a created and finite being—as was ever the
                    faith which made Apis a divine Incarnation and Dagon a God in whom were light
                    and life and power.’
                I repeat these words because of the new view they may give to others who have not
                    thought out the matter for themselves. It is always useful to see ourselves as
                    others see us, and Christians never realize the anthropomorphism of their
                    religion, nor remember that the universal Saviour was but a man, subject to all
                    the limitations of humanity, and that even now He is but the Divine Man deified.
                    Nor do they ever reason out their belief in
                    the Trinity—in those Three Persons and One God; nor ask: Was it always so?—was,
                    as I asked Henry Grahame, that part of the Godhead which afterwards became
                    Christ, always the Divine Man He is now?—or was the essence split and made
                    tripartite when Mary conceived?
                To say these things are mysteries is to give no answer at all. Things which come
                    to us through human media, are, I repeat it, to be justly judged of by human
                    reason; and when they are unreasonable they are as justly rejected.
                My friend also predicted the persecution against his people which had not then
                    begun, but of which he saw the certainty, as God's way of rebuking the pride,
                    ostentation, laxity and luxury, which had crept in among them. These vices had
                    to be scourged out of them, he said, if they were still to be the Chosen People.
                    He did not speak from political foresight; but only on religious grounds and in faith—believing that the Israelites
                    were, and are, in very truth the Chosen People, and that all which happens to
                    them comes directly from God. When the German Juden-Hetze began, followed as it
                    has been by the still more shameful barbarities of Russia and the late
                    disgraceful trial in Hungary, I remembered what my friend had said.
                But I was none the more convinced of the Presidential Authority of God in these
                    matters than in some others. Natural causes, arising from racial, ceremonial and
                    religious separation—from anti-national tribalism, so that a man is first an
                    Israelite and then a German or an Englishman—from those classes of business
                    which gather in and do not produce, taking from the hoards of others but not
                    adding to the general store—from a specialized financial faculty, so that they
                    get the better of the slower European intellect—these natural causes are
                    sufficient to account for all that has been of
                    late, without calling in the aid of the Divine Hand.
                For their earlier persecutions we want only the reasons that (1) The Jews amassed
                    portable wealth by the very same methods as those by which they amass it now,
                    namely, that specialized financial faculty already spoken of, which takes
                    advantage of the duller brains and profits by the more wasteful habits of
                    Christians. (2) They had no country, with ambassadors to represent them and an
                    army to retaliate when they were evilly entreated. They were the orphans of the
                    world. And that brutal, blustering, ferocious world treated them as undefended
                    orphans have ever been treated.
                Between their own self-consecration, however, and the repudiation of Christendom,
                    the poor Jews are in a state of very unstable equilibrium. Held by themselves as
                    miraculously preserved to be the unflinching witnesses of the truth and
                    worshippers of the one God—by Christians they are looked on as a standing miracle evidencing the wrath
                    of God, who has hardened their hearts so that they shall neither repent nor
                    believe. Thus they shall be always (righteously) punished for the sins of those
                    few who, nearly two thousand years ago, shouted ‘Release unto us Barabbas’—the
                    sins of the fathers being visited on the children, according to the Mosaic word.
                    What would have become of the world if this predestined Atonement had not been
                    consummated never troubles those who believe and do not reason. Nor does it come
                    into the order of Christian logic to prove that, far from persecuting, we ought
                    to honour and reward, those by whom this salvation of the world came about.
                If only all these theological fantasies could be abolished on both sides, and the
                    whole question treated on its merits!—if only men would cease to be theosophists
                    and learn to be brothers! Ah, then we should have the true millennium, wherein
                    the spirits of Intolerance, Spiritual Pride and Ignorance pranking itself as knowledge, would be effectually and for ever
                    chained!
                The first Friday night supper—which is the Judaic Sabbath first meal—to which I
                    was invited by my new friend, also greatly interested me because of the initial
                    ceremony, when the master of the house, in his quality of head of the family and
                    consequently domestic priest, blessed the bread and wine, which then he
                    distributed to those who ‘sat at meat’ about the table. The prayer of blessing
                    was said in Hebrew—all sitting—the men covered, the women as they were. Here was
                    the origin of the Lord's Supper in the Christian Church—the rite which had been
                    practised by the Israelites long before the birth of Christ and for ever
                    after—the homely and familiar ‘blessing of the elements’ which Christians have
                    adopted, and in their adoption have forgotten the source and claimed the sole
                    monopoly of usage.
                Who, in reading the account of the last Supper, ever realizes that Jesus was
                        only doing that which every master of a
                    house was doing at the same time throughout Judea?—which every Jew has always
                    done, from the time of the Babylonian captivity onward, and still does in every
                    house all over the world where the master is a faithful believer and not a
                    back-slider? Who, among ordinary Christians, does not imagine the whole thing to
                    have been specially ordered and ordained—from the verbal blessing to the
                    esoteric meaning and mystic grace still preserved in the observance? It was a
                    strange bit of enlightenment to me. It had for me the same effect in a minor
                    degree, as I imagine the bodily presence of Christ, just as He lived and thought
                    and talked in those early days of pre-scientific ignorance, would have on the
                    cultured Englishman of the present day. It was bringing the mystic ideal, the
                    symbolic grace, down to the hard and fast lines of realism; and when imagination
                    runs dry at the source, enthusiasm fails at
                    the outfall. It took from the celebration of the Lord's Supper all its
                    eucharistic character, and replaced it among the simple everyday human events of
                    which we know the whole genesis, and in which is neither mystery nor sanctity.
                    It was seeing the future King as a new-born naked babe, for whom only a woman's
                    care and a flannel blanket are needed, and before whom the obeisance of sages
                    and philosophers is a farce.
                Knowing my new friends ever more intimately, I saw ever more clearly the greater
                    strictness of parental authority and the more dlignified tone of their domestic
                    life, as compared with our own looser code. The sons had none of the familiar
                    slang common to our boys. The father was ‘father’ or ‘sir,’ not ‘the governor,’
                    nor ‘the pater,’ nor ‘the old man,’ nor ‘the boss.’ The girls, in their turn,
                    were more obedient to the mother, less fast, less emancipated, more domestic and
                    more retiring than ours. The whole tone struck me as—unhappily—archaic, with
                        a little dash of Quaker quietism to
                    intensify the disciplinary spirit. I liked it.
                In my own person I had become more than tolerant of all failings which are
                    temperamental rather than deliberate and intentional vices. I never reached the
                    cynical indifference of my old friend Mrs. Hulme, who forgave all things base
                    and bad, because human nature was such a corrupt concern from ground-plan to
                    summit, she expected nothing better. Deceit, treachery, moral cowardice,
                    cruelty, lying, dishonour in money-matters, I held in horror as I have always
                    done. But faults of passion, the ebullition of a strong nature, the excesses of
                    large vitality, seemed and seem to me to belong to another category; and the
                    overpowering force of the physical conditions, of which they are the result,
                    takes from them the evil of deliberate and conscious intention. All the same, I
                    reverenced and admired the gentle and self-restraining virtues when I found
                        them— those sweet domestic graces which
                    make all the value of home; and I bear willing testimony to the fact that I
                    found these in more abounding perfection in the homes of the religious Jews than
                    elsewhere.
                ‘A Jewish wife seldom troubles her husband's house,’ said one of my friends to me
                    one day, unconsciously using a pure Orientalism of speech when discussing the
                    comparative fidelity of wives—Jewish and Christian. And:—
                ‘Unchastity before marriage is a thing almost unknown among Jewish girls of good
                    education,’ said another, discussing the strange phenomenon of those emancipated
                    women who demand equal rights with men, and discard all the duties of women; who
                    desire knowledge without its consequences, pleasure without its penalties,
                    privileges without their obligations, love without the restraints of matrimony
                    or the self-sacrifice of maternity; and who make no distinction between the
                        sexes— seeing no difference between that
                    which is allowed by nature to the one and denied by the best arrangements of
                    society to the other.
                Most of us know something of the close solidarity of national feeling among the
                    Jews, proved, inter alia, by the magnificence of their charities, their
                    boundless kindness to their own poor, and the care with which the powerful watch
                    over the interests of the humble. The zealous endeavour to secure a liberal
                    secular education, as well as good religious instruction, for all their poor,
                    and to redeem their young waifs and strays from perdition, is a marked feature
                    of Jewish tribal life everywhere. We also know how learned are their learned
                    men—how to the forefront everywhere is the Jew. In art, science, philosophy,
                    literature, finance—of itself a science—we have to acknowledge the value of the
                    bright Semitic intellect. No hewers of wood nor drawers of water are they; no
                    helots nor serfs; but quick, 
                        bril-
                        brilliant
                     liant, irrepressible, they overcome
                    all hostile circumstances and rise to the top in spite of every effort to
                    destroy them.
                And we must always remember that these people dwell among us, and know us.
                When we think of all this, we may understand a little better than some blind
                    enthusiasts will or can, the mingled folly and impertinence of our costly
                    ‘Missions to the Jews,’ our ‘Societies for the Conversion of Jews,’ and the
                    like. The Jews live in the midst of Christian communities, and have ample means
                    of judging the working results of Christian doctrines in the morality, the
                    philanthropy, the self-respect and education of all classes. If they saw that
                    the Universal Brotherhood, which Christ taught as the foundation of all faithful
                    human action, gave more satisfactory working results than their own tribal
                    solidarity—well and good. If they saw that we were more sober, more chaste, more
                    humane, more generous than they, more liberal and more intellectual, they might then think that we had got
                    hold of a higher law than any they know; and that popes, cardinals, archbishops,
                    and bishops, were indeed better priests and leaders than Moses and the Rabbis.
                    But when they give us hospitals and we confine them in Ghettos—when the
                    compatriots of Spinoza, Heine, Mendelssohn, institute the Juden-Hetze, and Rome,
                    the chief seat of Christendom, persecutes them within our own times—when it is
                    only within the limits of the present generation that they have been admitted to
                    full citizenship here in free England—when you still hear, as I have done,
                    Catholic Monsignori maintain that the Jews do sacrifice Christian children at
                    the Passover, and that the story of Esther Solomossy was true—when they know
                    that we have less devotion to our creed than they have to theirs—that they have
                    a purer physical condition because they lead a purer moral life than we—when
                    they watch us in our daily doings and our national politics, and see the discrepancies between our
                    preaching and our practice—our efforts to proselytize fall dead, and are as the
                    ravings of the idle wind to those who hold themselves the chosen of God from the
                    beginning, the inheritors of the immutable Truth, and the specially preserved
                    for future testimony.
                Once in about half a dozen years or so, the missionaries get hold of some
                    circumcized scamp who has no religion to lose, and who offers himself for
                    Christian baptism as a means of living like any other. He knows those old ladies
                    with their fluffy brains and comfortable incomes, who are the mainstays of the
                    converting societies; and he does not see why he may not profit by the gold and
                    line his own nest with the fluff. So he does; and well. The same man comes up
                    for different occasions—like one of those veteran stags turned out time after
                    time for a day's run on Buckhurst Hill. It is all grist to his worm-eaten mill; and Father Abraham has a broad
                    bosom; and saints at the best are few! But if such converts are considered worth
                    the making, it is evident that no better are to be had.
                Nothing of all that I have said of those Jews who believe in their faith as
                    firmly as ever did Solomon or Isaiah—and perhaps more firmly than did either
                    Joshua or Samuel—applies to that loose-lying fringe of indifferentism which is
                    neither Israelite nor Christian, composed as it is of men and women who despise
                    their own race and do not believe the Christian creed. These people have nothing
                    of their national characteristics save in feature and the soft speech which ever
                    bewrayeth them. The women flirt, the men are dissipated, the children are out of
                    hand. Scandal mildews their name and ridicule takes all the starch out of their
                    pretensions. They found their claim to distinction solely on their riches, and
                    think they have scored a point when, with
                    forced strawberries at half-a-guinea the basket, they refuse their helping in a
                    house of modest expenditure, on the plea of being really surfeited and sated
                    with strawberries—they have had them every day, to please the children, for
                    weeks past! For people of this kind, Jew or Christian, no one can have respect;
                    but for the other two sorts—the strictly religious and tenaciously national, and
                    the sociably catholic and simply well-bred, whose wealth is never made
                    aggressive and who are generous but not ostentatious—all who know them must feel
                    the most profound respect and affection.
                This was, and is, the state of my mind concerning the moral and social condition
                    of the Jew; but my intercourse with them had graver mental results than this
                    tabulation according to condition; and it was the nearer contemplation of their
                    faith which finally modified and reconstructed my own. I will do my best to give
                    these results in the order in which they came—making a rough kind of chart of my thoughts, which may or may not
                    have value for others. To myself, of course, it is important.
                The unitarianism which a later intellectual development has read into the Old
                    Testament is grand and majestic. But the supremacy of Jehovah over a crowd of
                    other deities, which was the original theology of the Chosen People, was only a
                    form of polytheism like any other. It was loyalty to the national
                    God—theological patriotism, commendable because patriotic; but it was not the
                    monotheism of the present day, nor was it the spiritualized and impersonal
                    religion it is now. The Being who walks in the Garden in the cool of the day—who
                    repents and grieves, and ‘goes down’ to scatter the builders of the Tower—who
                    appears unto Abram in the flesh, and shows Himself standing at the top of a
                    ladder to Jacob in a dream—who comes down upon Mount Sinai—speaks unto Moses
                    face to face, as a man speaketh unto his friend— —who covers him with His hand while His glory passeth by, and shows only His
                    back parts, for no man can see His face and live—this Being is not the God
                    Almighty of the present religious idea. And this development of idea gives the
                    Jewish religion, which looks so stable, and as from the beginning even to now,
                    the same tentative and experimental character as belongs to all things, all
                    thoughts, all systems.
                Again, what is the base-line of this faith?—Partiality and consequent injustice;
                    Egotism and consequent vanity. The more I reflected on this base-line, the more
                    I was repelled by its egotism. How intensely selfish is that Litany of
                    Thanksgiving, which else sounds so grand in its confession of trust—so noble in
                    its gratitude! Analyze it from the human standpoint and come to its real
                    meaning. God is thanked all the way through in that He has made them, the Jews,
                    better and more blessed than the other sons of man:—Jews and not Gentiles —freemen and not slaves—men and not
                    women—with acknowledgment of other special mercies bestowed on them, His Beloved
                    Elder Sons. But those other sons, those younger disinherited, condemned by
                    reason of their unconsenting disinheritance—their arbitrary exclusion from
                    Israel—what of them? What justice to them is there in this favouritism shown to
                    these others? Why should the Jews thank God that He has made them freemen and
                    not slaves, so long as slavery exists for their fellow-men? If freedom be His
                    gift and slavery His scourge, why should those innocent black babies born
                    yesterday on the Gaboon be destined to undergo a curse they have done nothing to
                    deserve? And yet, is not this belief in special care and blessing the core of
                    every religion extant? The Jews exclude from equal heavenly rights the Gentiles;
                    the Mohammedans the Giaours; the Roman Catholics all Christian dissenters from
                    their Church, together with those outside the
                    Covenant, in one crowd of the unredeemed because unbaptized; and every petty
                    Protestant sect denies, relative to its own special enlightenment, the
                    pretensions to divine illumination of every other sect. Do not we, of the Church
                    of England, in the plenitude of our self-conferred infallibility, pray for all
                    ‘Jews, Turks, infidels, and heretics’? And, indeed, are we not all in turn
                    prayed for by one another in this milder age, after we have burned and been
                    burned in a fiercer?
                In truth and fairness, however, I must say that my views, which are entirely my
                    own, gathered from reading and fashioned by reflection, were emphatically denied
                    by my Jewish friend spoken of above, who, after all, by his learning and his
                    position, has the best right to pronounce on his own religion. I will give his
                    own words, which came in answer to a letter of mine, setting forth these
                    ideas.
                ‘You speak,’ he said, ‘of the Gentiles who are
                    ever outside the Courts of Jehovah. This sentiment is utterly un-Jewish, and is
                    absolutely incompatible with the belief of the best class of Jews. Also, “His
                    sons,” as applied to Jewish in antithesis to the Gentiles, is as wrong as the
                    other.
                ‘With your assertion concerning “the Unitarianism which a later intellectual
                    development has read into the Old Testament,” I cannot agree. No Jew, when
                        Hebrew was a living language, ever supposed that God walked, repented
                    or grieved, or appeared in the flesh, or spoke to Moses as a friend, etc.
                    Language of some kind must be used to intimate that Adam's disobedience was
                    known to God; that sin is not pleasing to Him; that He inspired Moses, etc. But
                    the expressions used in the text are the mere exigencies of an Eastern language,
                    which clothes every act of the most commonplace nature in the most luxuriant
                    imagery. Even in our prosaic English we say, for instance, “the sun rises,” because it appears to rise. Shall the coming
                    New Zealander, when he sits in the recess of London Bridge, perusing the
                    disinterred remains of an almanac, be justified in declaring that the English
                    nation of the time of Queen Victoria were ignorant of the elements of
                    astronomy?
                ‘Your arguments against the “baselines” of our faith are even more unjust.
                    Analyze the prayers, as you say, and what then? Think of the dreadful idolatry
                    of an incarnate God, and shall not the Jew thank God for the faith that is in
                    him? Think of the life of a slave, and shall not the Jew thank God that “stone
                    walls do not a prison make,” and that, happen what may to his body, he is ever
                    intellectually free; think of the pains of maternity, and say, shall not the
                        Jew be thankful that he is not a Jewess? This last
                    sentiment must convince you that when the Jew thanks God for what he is, he has
                    not the non-Jew in mind by way of antithesis. Moreover, your 
                        ex-
                        expression
                     pression, “His beloved Elder Sons,”
                    or any similar or cognate expression, does not occur in any Jewish Prayer-book.
                    We thank God that we are not idolators, but with no Pharisaic sense of
                    superiority. Nor are there “other disinherited younger sons.” These words
                    entirely misinterpret us. The Jewish religion proclaims—and it is the only one
                    that does proclaim—that “the upright of all nations have their
                    share in the world to come”—no elder and no younger, no primogeniture, and no
                    disinherited; and above all, no eternal punishment. We do not
                    “exclude from equal Heavenly rights the Gentiles.” We were chosen, not for the
                    enjoyment of privileges, but for the performance of duties. I am inexpressibly
                    pained and grieved by your words. Moreover, the parable of Dives and Lazarus
                    does not apply to us. We do care, and care very much, about other people's
                    sufferings. For example, we are about to celebrate the Passover, the 
                        anni-
                        anniversary
                     versary of our deliverance from
                    Egyptian bondage. The Feast lasts eight days, during which, in Synagogue, every
                    day certain psalms of thanksgiving are recited. But on six days of the Festival
                    only a curtailed form of thanksgiving is used, because our release involved the
                    destruction of thousands of our enemies, and we may not, therefore, rejoice so
                    fully as if no life had been taken; and this custom exists yet, though
                    thirty-three centuries have elapsed. So, on the Feast of Esther, in whose
                    lifetime the Jews were nearly massacred, no thanksgiving psalms are recited, for
                    the reason that the Jewish deliverance involved the taking of life. We are not
                    really open to the reproach your words convey.’
                I give this letter in its entirety, though it condemns what I have already said,
                    and in the minds of many will destroy my whole further chain of reasoning. As a
                    man of honour, no other course is open to me; and, 
                        more-
                        moreover
                     over, I have too great a respect for
                    my friend—for his profound scholarship, his sincerity and faithful piety—not to
                    give him this opportunity for refuting me if he has the truth and I am in
                    error.
                My friend's arguments did not convince me of more than certain mistakes in fact,
                    which did not touch my main point. No one's arguments do convince me unless
                    based on undeniable proof. By the law under which I live and suffer I have to
                    work out my difficulties for myself; and no personal admiration for the moral
                    results in an individual can carry me over to the faith from which these results
                    have sprung. I am like one standing in a barren centre whence radiate countless
                    pathways—each professing to lead to the Unseen Home. By the very multiplicity I
                    am bewildered, and for fear of taking the wrong way and take none.
                The doctrine of a centralized truth, and
                    therefore of God's special favour to those who hold it, revolts me by its
                    assumption of partiality and consequent injustice.
                But the foundation of all religions alike lies in this belief—direct Divine
                    illumination and consequent possession of special spiritual grace—else have they
                    no original standpoint at all. The correlative of this special favouritism and
                    enlightenment is darkness, estrangement, and eternal exile for those who are not
                    included. This state of mind is more emphasized in all other religions than it
                    is in our own laxer and more liberal Protestantism. And the reason why is easy
                    to see. Wronged and ill-treated by man, orphaned among the nations as he is, the
                    Jew clings to his belief in this special favour of God, as his solatium in
                    eternity for his misfortunes in time; just as the long-sustained political
                    supremacy of the Roman Catholic Church, and the tangential divergence of
                    Mohammedanism and the other Eastern religions from Western curves of thought and knowledge explains the exclusiveness
                    of these last.
                Going back to Judaism:—When we, who have been taught from our childhood to hold
                    the Jewish race as still under the sentence of Divine ostracism, are brought
                    face to face with its own inherent belief in Divine favour—favour traversing
                    chastisement—we are startled into strange thoughts of comparison and inquiry.
                    And we ask first: What of others? and then: What of ourselves?
                Contrast this self-complacent trust in God's special favour to ourselves, to the
                    exclusion of our less fortunate brothers, with the generous humanity of those
                    who think that their own best happiness is to be found in the happiness of
                    others. Our poor discredited prophets, the Communists, with their altruistic
                    dreams of a universal Utopia, where shall be no lack and no injustice, have at
                    least a nobler working ideal, if so fatally bad a modus operandi, than any which speculative theology has yet
                    formulated. For them is no exclusiveness of favour—no heights where the beloved
                    stand joyously in the sunshine—no hollows where the disgraced cry out to the
                    empty night in vain—no Heaven for the lambs—no Hell for the goats—no broad lands
                    and goodly heritage for the first-born, with banishment and dispossession for
                    the rest; but a sweet and fruitful elysium for all alike. Poor dreamers, and yet
                    how human! and how far more generous than the covenanted!
                The parable of Dives and Lazarus synthesizes the whole matter. ‘Leaning on
                    Abraham's bosom—safe in the arms of the Saviour—I and my beloved are happy, no
                    matter who else is in torment. I have made my own calling and election sure; and
                    for the rest, it is not my affair whom God in His infinite mercy and justice may
                    think fit to torture for all eternity. The great gulf fixed between us cannot
                        be passed, and Dives must call out for
                    water in vain. He had his good things when I had my evil days. The balance is
                    now redressed, and the torment of the one who was formerly the pampered
                    favourite of fortune does not lessen my own beatification.’
                Why! little children, for all their greed and inconsiderateness, will beg their
                    parents for restoration to favour of their disgraced playmates, even though good
                    gifts are heaped up for their own share. They cannot enjoy their holiday unless
                    John and Jane are there to enjoy it too; and their sweets have lost their savour
                    if these others are doomed to bread and water. But in the creed of the most
                    pious Christian, the angels and the archangels; the blessed saints who still
                    busy themselves with the welfare of the race of which they were once living
                    members: the Madonna whose function it is to intercede; the Christ who came to
                    save; the Holy Ghost who inspires the human soul to good; and God, as Father
                        and Creator who can do all He
                    will—together with the saved who once loved the lost—they can all rejoice in
                    their blessedness and exult in their glory, while sinful souls weep in
                    unavailing sorrow because grace has been bestowed on the one side and withheld
                    on the other.
                It is of no use for advanced philosophers to say: ‘All this is elemental. No
                    thinking man believes now in eternal punishment any more than in a personal
                    devil.’
                The great mass of people do not think; and where the men and women who have
                    renounced these superstitions may be counted by units, those to whom they are
                    active influences over life and thought are to be reckoned by millions.
                Go a step farther, from generals to particulars, from collective creed to
                    individual prayer. Dismiss as untenable, by reason of its injustice, the theory
                    of inherited blessings because of the faith into which you chance to have been
                        born— belief in the efficacy and the need,
                    the righteousness of, and the response to, prayer remains. But when I thought of
                    the Jews and their Litany of Thanksgiving—of our own Te Deums for victories
                    gained perhaps in unjust and cruel wars—of all other assumptions of special
                    favour—when I thought of all this as the circumference, and then came back to my
                    own supplications as the centre, I felt a certain shock and conviction of
                    selfishness that was as painful as physical anguish.
                If what we call grace is an extraneous gift, bestowed or withheld at pleasure,
                    the bestowal is an act of partiality, the withholding one of injustice. Why
                    should a father need to be entreated before granting that without which his
                    children are less well equipped, morally and spiritually, for the great
                    Armageddon ever going on? That prayer should of itself, by reflex action and by
                    the logical consequences of endeavour, strengthen resolve and calm distress—that is intelligible enough. But
                    that it should be necessary before obtaining a father's favour—of that I began
                    to be sceptical. Benevolence gives unsolicited those things which are needed by
                    the unendowed. A parent feeds his children, who yet do not beg him for their
                    daily bread; a man of average humanity provides for the life and well-being of
                    his dog without being fawned upon. But according to our creed, God alone demands
                    abasement before He will save—entreaty before He will endow. Can this be true of
                    All Mercy, All Goodness, All Justice? Is it not rather a survival of the old
                    craven times, when the one strong man was the lord and king before whom the
                    people had no rights save such as he granted for favour?—when royal clemency
                    allowed and plebeian humility besought?—when there was no justice, no law, and
                    only his arbitrary will? We see the same thing still in savage countries like 
                        Da-
                        Dahomey
                     homey, where a man may be gradually
                    slain by successive mutilations—mutilations which make him a mere ghastly
                    simulacrum of a man, no more human than a New Zealander's idol—yet where to the
                    last this wretched abject being crawls humbly after his kingly destroyer,
                    kissing the ground and eulogizing his mercy, his goodness and his power.
                Again, God does not give His grace even to all who pray. In the continuance of
                    ignorance that might be enlightened, and consequent continuance of the tyranny
                    and cruelty which spring from that ignorance—in the sorrow of pain needlessly
                    inflicted—in the degradation of passions which override resolve—in the fruitless
                    torment of desires which, like scorpions, sting themselves within the circle of
                    fire that surrounds them—in the anguish of untimely death and the bitterness of
                    preventible loss, we see the futility of prayer, whether for spiritual grace or
                    material blessing.
                
                And what a volume of supplication goes up day by day and hour by hour from man to
                    that dread Deity behind the clouds, who Can and Does Not! Surely, were there an
                    Intelligent God cognizant of our affairs, a Personal Providence to be entreated
                    and moved, He must before now have answered so that all men should hear Him! He
                    must before now have made the crooked things straight and the rough places
                    smooth! We pray—we pray—with tears and faith, with ardour and despair, with
                    longing and humbleness of soul;—and who answers? Who? When our dearest lie dead
                    and our passions are still our masters—when the Hand is not stretched forth to
                    save nor the grace bestowed to help—where hides the God who has promised to give
                    to those who ask? And even if I, in my own person, think that I am answered,
                    what about my brother still in spiritual bondage, unenlightened and unredeemed?
                    There ought to be no peace for me while one
                    human soul is left without divine guidance. Yet I am but a man; and God is the
                    Father of all!
                All these thoughts haunted and overpowered me. The sins and sorrows of humanity
                    seemed to grow larger as I contrasted them with the Power which could redeem and
                    would not. Those sins, those sorrows, claimed the Divine as their author by
                    reason of their very existence. ‘I form the light and create darkness; I make
                    peace and create evil; I, the Lord, do all these things.’ And the mystery of
                    spiritual darkness seeking light and not finding it, grew till it swallowed up
                    all the rest. I cried aloud for illumination. I prayed with the anguish which no
                    man need blush to feel nor be ashamed to confess, for the Divine Light which
                    should make these dark things clear. No answer came. No voice spoke to my soul,
                    penetrating the thick cloud and showing the living way of truth. None! none! But
                    one night as I prayed, I prayed into the
                    visible dark, the felt void; and my words came back like a hot blast into my
                    face as I realized that I petitioned an immutable and impersonal LAW which neither heard nor heeded—which wrought no conscious evil
                    and gave no designed favour.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER V.
                WHO that has known the hour when the Father is not, and Law has taken
                    the place of Love, can ever forget it? The whole aspect of life is changed, and
                    a cry goes out from the soul as when the beloved has died—a cry to which is no
                    answer and for which is no comfort—only the echo flung back by the walls of the
                    grave. The blank despair; the sense of absolute loneliness, of drifting on a
                    pathless sea without a fixed point to make for or a sign by which to steer, of
                    floating unrooted in space; the consciousness of universal delusion and
                    phantasmagoric self-creation that it has all
                    been—no man who has gone through that moment of supreme anguish need fear the
                    schoolman's hell. He has been down into one worse than the worst which terrified
                    timid souls in those Ages of Faith which were essentially the Days of Darkness.
                    Henceforth he has only reason for his guide, with that impenetrable barrier of
                    the Unknown—and Unknowable?—closing the way at every turn;—that dissolving power
                    of negation, reducing what had once been solid and eternal to a vapoury mass of
                    conjecture where nothing is sure, save ignorance.
                And yet if this darkness, this limitation, this impenetrable barrier, be really
                    the TRUTH, and all attempts at more positive construction
                    be delusions, the pain of the discovery, in the desolation it brings with it, is
                    better for the strong man than the false comfort of a cheating hope. Before all
                    else let us have things as they are. If we are in the midst of an untilled
                        waste, let us recognise its barrenness and
                    its potentialities; and neither believe that it is a garden for this part, nor
                    unimprovable for that. In the one case we have at least an incentive to
                    cultivate and amend our holding, and to go on until we come to something better.
                    In the other, we are content with our fancied possessions, like those poor
                    creatures who command the stars in Bedlam; or we fold our hands and leave the
                    activities of amelioration to a higher power and one outside ourselves.
                Nothing tends so much to religious speculation as unhappiness. The believing
                    strengthen the foundations of their faith; the doubting plunge deeper into
                    inquiry. For where there is no outside joy to satisfy the nature, the mind turns
                    inward on itself, thoughts taking the place of affections, and speculations that
                    of emotions. In these lonely days of my life I went over again the whole ground
                    that I had traversed—from my first doubts of the evidence of the Incarnation to where I now stood confessing only
                    the truths of science, and confronted everywhere else by uncertainty,
                    phantasmagoria, and the Unknown. I recalled it all, step by step, and how from
                    the first doubt I gradually grew to see that the teaching of Christ and His
                    Apostles was only abreast with the knowledge of the day; and that those things
                    which have made most for the good of humanity were hidden from them as from the
                    later saints and martyrs. I specially remembered the strange tenacity with which
                    my mind had fastened on that trivial matter of failing to eradicate ophthalmia;
                    and how this had crystallized and drawn to its own form all the rest.
                The impossibility of logically faithful adherence to the laws of life as laid
                    down in the Gospels had also been a stumbling-block. Those laws of life are pure
                    communism in system, with the widest, flattest, most loving democracy in
                        action. But put them into practice—call
                    your maid-servant ‘my dear,’ and shake hands with your footman; forgive an
                    impertinence repeated as often as forgiven; allow yourself to be defrauded twice
                    over by your needy brother who takes your cloak as well as your coat; take no
                    thought for the morrow, but spend your principal on those who want—act out your
                    life on the Christian plan in its integrity, and then see where you will stand,
                    not only in relation to your own fortunes, but in relation to the respect of
                    your fellow Christians.
                I could never accept the doctrine of Development, which makes it necessary for
                    man to continually explain and expand the elements of Christianity, so as to
                    harmonize them with the contradictions of science and the necessities of
                    society. This doctrine, which is cousin-german to the uninterrupted stream of
                    inspiration claimed by the Romish Church, is so evidently an ingenious
                    compromise by those who wish to excuse and
                    dare not deny, that the wonder is how any robust thinker can be found to adopt
                    it. It is a clever patch to hide a rent; but the patch was not in the original
                    web.
                Again, the sweet and patient moralities of Christianity are not special to
                    Christians, but all, including that sublime command to do unto others as we
                    would they should do unto us, and to love our enemies—which have been held as
                    peculiarly the Master's—are to be found in every other moral code promulgated by
                    every other religious teacher. Buddha, Confucius, the ‘Rabbi Talmud,’ all taught
                    the same thing. And necessarily;—for the abnegation of private vengeance is the
                    beginning of social law. Just as Judaism was the outcome of Egyptian theology,
                    plus racial sympathy and the supremacy of Jehovah, so was Christianity the
                    outcome of Judaism, plus a more generalized philanthropy than belonged to the
                    close-set lines of an exclusive people. But Christians imagine that brotherly love began with Christ, as the Jews imagine
                    that the law of righteousness was first made known to Moses. And the evidence of
                    the papyri here, and of the Talmud there, goes for nothing. These beliefs are on
                    all-fours with that naïve confession of reverent ignorance made by the poor
                    Catholic peasant to whom I talked the other day, when he told me that before
                    Christ came into the world all was darkness and chaos, and that creation and the
                    human race began with the Madonna and her Son.
                The story of Buddha, too, had greatly exercised me because of its parallelism in
                    self-devotion with the life of Christ. Buddha, who claims no incarnate Godhead
                    and preaches no impersonate God, did as much for righteousness and humanity as
                    did the Son of Mary. A king, a husband, wealthy, powerful, he abandoned all
                    human delights to become a beggar and an outcast, that he might find the Hidden
                    Wisdom and thus rescue mankind from ignorance
                    and the sin that lies therein. And—scheme for scheme—purification by successive
                    incarnations is more merciful than even purgatory, not to speak of hell; and
                    reabsorption in the Great Whole is no more unthinkable than the eternal
                    individuality of a material product.
                We abandon the belief in the unchangeableness of law—which is masculine—in favour
                    of the religious sentiment, shifting, personal, emotional, subject to the
                    pressure of affection and the relief of compassion—which is feminine. The
                    fundamental doctrines of Christianity;—seeking strength elsewhere than in our
                    own resolve; humility before a dread power which accords favour and denies
                    rights; holiness of life springing from love to or fear of God and in obedience
                    to His command, and not because holiness is good in itself and needs no
                    incentive of reward nor deterrent of punishment; the fear born of hell and the
                        hope registered in heaven; Christ, the
                    eternal Man-God, ever willing to save those who come to Him; Mary, the eternal
                    Mother, ever ready to comfort and intercede for those who pray to her; the
                    saintly hierarchy doing their best for their loving brothers and sisters—all
                    these heavenly advocates standing as merciful mediators between humanity and the
                    Supreme God; the intense conviction of the personal importance of the
                    individual;—these are essentially feminine; and the proof of sympathy is seen in
                    the lines of attachment. It is woman who fills the churches; as how should it
                    not be, seeing that Christianity idealizes her needs, her virtues, her
                    sentiments? The virile strength of man has no favour where her timid plasticity
                    has all. Where heathen ethics taught magnanimity, because of the noble pride
                    which would not stoop to parallel lines of baseness, Christianity teaches
                    forgiveness, because Christ forgave His enemies and died that sinners might be forgiven of God. Does not the whole
                    world lie between these two limits? Surely!—the whole world of masculine
                    self-control and feminine obedience; masculine reason and feminine emotion.
                    Where heathen philosophy taught self-respect, and Buddhism makes a man's higher
                    moral state dependent on his own will, Christianity sighs out the confession of
                    sin, and trusts to a stronger Hand for help. Where heathendom formulated the
                    great law of Necessity, encompassing and limiting the action of the gods
                    themselves, Christianity confesses an Omnipotence which overloads us with misery
                    here that we may be compensated hereafter, and patiently accepts present sorrow
                    for the sake of future glory, as a woman accepts the mysterious pain of
                    maternity for the sake of the living joy to come. Where heathendom, manlike,
                    credited its gods with the lusty life of love, the pleasures of social
                    intercourse and the varied delights of the senses, Christianity, as the chaster woman, ranks perpetual virginity as
                    one of the supremest virtues, and makes all sensual enjoyment coincident with
                    spiritual degradation. Where heathendom left Hades a land of shadows, and made
                    the sorrow of life after death to consist in the bloodless strengthlessness of
                    the spirits of brave men, neither alive nor yet dead, Christianity accepts,
                    trembling, the ghastly doctrine of eternal torture, to be avoided only through
                    the mercy of the Saviour who gives by grace what cannot be wrung from power—just
                    as the typical woman sues for mercy because she has not the courage to demand,
                    nor the strength to obtain, justice. It is the same through all the clauses. And
                    if not in direct injunction nor in distinct allowance, yet in spirit and
                    sympathy, the apotheosis of woman began with Christianity, because therein are
                    enshrined the special characteristics of her sex.
                Here let me ask without irreverence, and going
                    back on the anthropomorphism of the Christian faith: Is not the existence to
                    which the creed condemns our God, or Gods, inexplicable in its unnecessary and
                    enduring pain? We pray to them for pity and mercy. But does not pity include the
                    sorrow which comes from sympathy? and how can there be mercy without the
                    correlative of undue harshness? All the cries and piteous prayers which go up
                    from earth to heaven, and surround the throne of Grace like clouds risen from
                    oceans of tears, if they move the Divine Beings to whom they are addressed, move
                    them of necessity through this pain of pity. And realize for a moment this
                    weeping, shrieking, agonizing crowd; these countless millions of tortured men
                    and women; these sobbing innocents massacred by fate and nature;—and the Great
                    Powers looking on, sometimes helping those who cry to them for aid, and
                    sometimes not. Add to this our fratricidal belief that those who cry for aid to
                        these Divine Beings under certain names
                    are not heard at all. Christ may help us, but Vishnu cannot help his worshipper.
                    God is our Father, but Brahma, Allah, Joss, are as powerless to save as was ever
                    Ashtaroth or Zeus. It is as if children weeping in a dark room where is some one
                    they cannot see, were left to their misery unhelped, because they beseech the
                    nurse when it is the mother who is there; and the mother will not answer unless
                    called by her right name. The whole thing is human. Ever and ever we determine
                    the ways of Heaven by our own acts. We influence the divine will and deflect the
                    law for our need and by our prayers. Or we create—as in the saints—the
                    aristocracy of departed souls to whom we ascribe special powers, accrediting
                    them as ambassadors whom the Great God accepts as they are sent. Or we give
                    names and forms to angel and archangel, and call one Gabriel and another Michael, with others less popular, such
                    as Zachariel, Anael, Oriphiel and Lamael!
                Unitarianism, with its eclecticism, rejecting the miracles, the atonement, a
                    personal devil and eternal damnation, but always retaining that loving reverence
                    for the character of Christ which is due to the most precious possession and
                    perfect outcome of the human race, is naturally the next stage for those who
                    have learned to deny the literal truth of the Mosaic record and the
                    interpretation of the Gospels by the Church. Belief in the efficacy of prayer,
                    in the disciplinary meaning of life, in an overruling Providence and an
                    individual immortality, gives both anchorage and the sense of enlightenment. But
                    here again, though the anthropomorphism of the orthodox creed is softened, and
                    the personality of the Deity is more faintly sketched than in Byzantine mosaic
                    or mediæval fresco, it is always a personality—always humanity—grand, sublime, ideal, even nebulous, if you
                    will, but none the less humanity in excelsis. As how should it not be, seeing
                    that we cannot go beyond our own experience? Yet are we sure that Unitarianism
                    gives us the truth? Beyond, and overruling organic forces, are we absolutely
                    sure there is a Power corresponding to our own human nature—pitiful and
                    wrathful; stern and placable; spreading temptations as a net before the feet of
                    the unwary and punishing those who get entangled therein; able to save and
                    consigning to perdition?—a Power of fluid resolves and unstable will; of unjust
                    preferences and inexplicable abandonment; working a miracle of healing for A,
                    but letting B drag on slowly to the grave by the way of unmitigated torture?—a
                    Power which gives grace to one so that he shall ask for more, and denies to
                    another that initial impulse of godliness so that he does not even desire to
                    have or seed or increase?—a Power which saves
                    one soul alive and gives to another the wages of sin—death?
                If there were in fact any stream of inspiration from the Great Unseen to man,
                    should we be left to our present blindness, searching painfully the better way?
                    Slowly, toilsomely, urged forward by pain, encompassed by difficulties, bit by
                    bit we reform our laws through the gradual pressure, the gradual enlightenment,
                    brought about by the intolerable injustice of the past; one by one we unearth
                    those discoveries which make for the general good. Are we divinely directed in
                    all this? Have all our lawgivers, inventors, discoverers, been simply the media
                    of the higher intelligence? Where then begins and where ends this providential
                    inspiration? Was Volta divinely inspired? If so, then also Wheatstone and Morse,
                    Siemens and Edison, and every other adapter of a newly mastered
                    principle—whether it be electricity, the motive force of steam, printing from
                    moveable types, paper made from rags, or any
                    other discovery by which society has been modified and human thought
                    revolutionized.
                Unless we accept the creed that man's mental being is governed by the same law of
                    development as that which has produced brain from protoplasm—that the moral
                    sense is as much a matter of evolution as is the intellectual—we are lost in a
                    sea of contradictions. Grant the unseen ultimate to which we are tending, and
                    the hidden origin as well as meaning of life; grant the whole area of the
                    unknown, and confess the mystery surrounding thought and matter alike; still, by
                    this creed of mental evolution, we have at least a free sea-board though we may
                    never touch land. But give us Omnipotence which interferes and does not
                    save—which inspires some and does not cherish all—and we come inevitably to
                    Mill's alternative:—Either not Omnipotent or not Benevolent.
                
                The presence of God recedes as science advances. In the ignorant days of
                    fetishism He is incorporate in the trees and the stones, the mountains and the
                    streams, the sun and moon and stars and sky. He then becomes less the individual
                    form, than the active forces, of nature. He is no longer to be touched in His
                    material embodiment, but His power is in the tempest and His voice is in the
                    thunder; He passes by in the strong wind; and when storms devastate the land, it
                    is God who sends them for our chastisement. He gives us gentle rain for our
                    benefit; and again He loosens against us drought and blight and pestilence for
                    our sins. When, by the discovery of physical laws, we come to the knowledge that
                    the forces of nature and all forms of disease are governed by conditions as
                    absolute as those of arithmetic, then we relegate God's dealings with man to the
                    mind, the spiritual sense, to communion through prayer, and inspiration as the 
                        con-
                        consequence
                     sequence. He is the Great Soul; and
                    our soul recognises His.
                But when and where does this soul begin in man? when is that something added
                    which is exterior to intelligence? We are one with the rest of living things,
                    just as the earth is one with the sun and the planets. Our moral sentiments and
                    intellectual perceptions have their beginnings in birds and beasts and
                    insects—differing in degree and grade, not in kind. And thought—which we
                    identify with our spirit, our soul—is no more strange nor incomprehensible than
                    life. Both are incomprehensible. But that function of the brain which we call
                    thought—life conscious of itself—is as, and no more mysterious than, the
                    selection of its elements of growth by a crystal, the transformation of chemical
                    material into the wood and leaves of a tree, the pushing over a barren space of
                    the underground rootlets seeking their proper pabulum beyond. ‘Mind-stuff’ is
                        behind and within all matter; but is this
                    mind-stuff providential? is creation self-conscious when as a plant it turns to
                    the light, as a broken crystal takes up material to mend its fractures, as a
                    microscopic speck of protoplastic jelly pushes out a finger-like process to
                    seize some other speck which shall help to its own sustainment? Or is our great
                    distinction in the moral sense? But dogs have a conscience, and elephants a
                    sense of duty and responsibility.
                Who does not see that all things are subjective?—all moods and thoughts
                    conditional? Morality is as much a matter of climate, age, sex, education, as is
                    the growth of an oak from an acorn in England, of a palm from a date-stone in
                    Syria. It is as shifting as the thermometer—as local as vegetation. The morality
                    of one age is not that of another. The morality of races is as diverse as the
                    colour of their skins. The drunkenness which carries so little comparative
                        disgrace with it in England would be a
                    man's destruction in Turkey; the free use of the knife, which public opinion
                    justifies in Italy, would be the breaking of the Sixth Seal in Norway. We have
                    not come to the absolute even in fundamentals; and Truth and Justice, incarnate
                    in a Prime Minister, would make of the empire a wreck and of himself a traitor;
                    while the polygamy which is honourable in a Mohammedan is felony in England, and
                    the public prostitution rampant in our streets would be the translation of
                    Gehenna to the upper world in Tangier or Ispahan.
                Personally, what we are is determined by two things—age and sex; and we can no
                    more go beyond their influence than the earth can free itself from the law of
                    gravitation. The boy's thoughts and virtues are not the young man's; nor are the
                    young man's those of his father in middle age; nor his again those of the
                    octogenarian who has outlived both the active energy of his passions and the plastic power of his brain. Among them which
                    is absolute? What determines the very ground-work of society, and its
                    moralities, but this material fact of sex, with its secondary modification, age?
                    The courage of the man, the self-devotion of the woman; the shame of cowardice
                    and lying—a form of cowardice—with him whose strength includes the salvation of
                    others as well as of himself, and the easy condonation accorded to both with her
                    whose weakness excuses fear; his freer license, her chaster modesties; his sense
                    of justice, which makes laws for the equal good of all, her narrowed sympathies
                    born of the restricted cares of maternity; his reason, her instinct; his
                    philosophy, her religion; his aggressiveness, her compassion—these, and all
                    other antitheses which could so easily be made, are essentially matters of sex
                    doubled with age. And these are the bases of society and morality. How then can
                    things so entirely conditional be treated as absolute?
                
                Again, each man and woman in a community of worshippers has his or her private
                    spiritual experiences. Conviction passes for inspiration, and a state of mind
                    proves itself. We find this in all religions alike; whether it be the Christian,
                    the Mohammedan, or the Buddhist—in a Catholic Trappist or a Free-Grace Baptist.
                    So that, reason as we may, we ever come back to the central point—the subjective
                    quality of all thought, all belief, all morality, and how what we are is
                    determined by the material conditions of inheritance, sex, age, and individual
                    constitution;—which yet does not explain the religious instinct, nor catalogue
                    the force by which it works so powerfully in the world.
                Where is that Place of Departed Souls, so passionately believed in, so fervently
                    desired? Always not here—not on nor about this planet on which we live, where
                    the ‘strengthless heads’ of the dead lie mouldering in their forgotten graves.
                    Yet we are made of the same stuff and governed
                    by the same laws as all the rest—the difference between us and Jupiter, us and
                    the moon, us and the sun, being in the stages of development reached and passed.
                    The laws of life and motion, of displacement and reconstruction, must be the
                    same everywhere, though the special manifestations may vary. Everywhere there
                    must be matter becoming, or already become, intelligence conscious of itself—or,
                    by the changed relations of material forces, life in its plastic energy extinct
                    and done with. Everywhere the form is finite and the essence eternal—the sum
                    undiminished, but the place and relation of the units shifting. How can our
                    dream of an unchanging eternity—a state of stable equilibrium never displaced—be
                    possible? How can that individuality, which began and is bound up with material
                    conditions, exist free from those conditions? How can a spirit be always the
                    same, without change of parts or interchange of force? Every emotion includes a change and shifting of atoms; everything we
                    see and feel and hear and touch, and everything we think, sets the molecules of
                    our body in motion—creates waste, reinforcement, an alteration of conditions and
                    a reconstruction of parts. To speak of the soul as something beyond the laws
                    which govern the universe is to assume what reason refuses to accept. A soul
                    must at least be a force, like the flashing of the lightning, or like
                    gravitation or attraction. To say that it is independent of all cosmic
                    conditions is a phrase which simply marks our ignorance of things which are too
                    subtle for our senses:—as the light of the night which the night-birds can see
                    and we cannot—the sounds of the growing grass, the ebb and flow of the sap in
                    the forest trees, the creeping step of the tendrils, the gathering up of
                    material for the building of the germ, the cry of the bursting bud—all of which
                    are there, though we cannot hear them. The organic forces are immaterial,
                    according to the nomenclature imposed by our
                    own limitations. But the organic forces include movement; and movement is
                    displacement. Is the soul more subtle than electricity?—is the heaven of our
                    eternity more stagnant than a sea of brass?
                We look to a future life as an advance on this in the perfecting of our
                    intelligence, the continuance of our affections, the redressing of our wrongs.
                    Should we have ever formulated this eternal life, had not death snatched us away
                    in the immaturity or the plenitude of our powers, before our lives had been
                    lived out to the end, or our work completed? Had we all lived out to our
                    ultimate, we should have had only the need of rest, not the desire of
                    renovation. Our work would have continued after us—our real immortality; and we
                    should have been re-incarnate in our children—our replaced selves. And when we
                    had sunk to sleep, after the prefatory slumber of decay, we should have no more
                    asked for a 
                        resurrec-
                        resurrection
                     tion of the body, nor for a
                    continuance of spiritual identity, than for the individual return of this
                    shattered rose and that fallen leaf.
                Even those who loved us best would have said: When? At what period? Our
                    playfellows, from whom we had been parted all our lives, would have said: As the
                    boy they knew. Our partners in life's work would have said: As the strong and
                    energetic man—strong and energetic because of the conditions of his age and sex.
                    Our children and grandchildren: As the calm and tolerant, just and passionless,
                    sage—calm, just and passionless also as the result of his age and the condition
                    of his sex—that is, as a spirit influenced in its immortal nature by the
                    material circumstances of flesh and food and time. Do you say: As the undated
                    summary of these three states—the individual as he was in the tender freshness
                    of his adolescence, in the energy of his maturity, in the wise tranquillity of
                    his physical decay? You might as well say:
                    ‘Give me the bud, the flower, and the fruit all at the same moment, enclosed in
                    the same calyx.’
                Even while we live, when time has passed and sorrow is forgotten, is it necessary
                    to our own happiness, or integral to the well-being of cosmic things, that our
                    mother, aged ninety, should be finally convinced we did not steal those cakes
                    for which we were unjustly punished just sixty-five years ago? What does it
                    matter now to our seventy years of peace and patience, wherein time and thought
                    have taught us the relative value of things and the worthlessness of going back
                    on the past? It is done with—dead and gone, buried and forgotten. Let it lie in
                    its deserved oblivion. It was hard to bear at the time; but now it is as
                    insignificant as the fact that three hundred years ago the storm came down and
                    wrecked that poor widow's cottage by the mountain-stream, and brought her and
                    hers to poverty for many a day and year. The ruin was great in its time, and the poor widow believed in
                    compensation beyond the grave. Does she want it now? That too is past and done
                    with, and wiped out of the record of time and memory; as are the sorrows of all
                    those who have been destroyed—with those others consequently left desolate—by
                    this volcanic eruption and that destructive earthquake. When, thousands of years
                    ago, a savage wife was subject to the jealous test of the ordeal, and, innocent
                    as she was, died under the ordeal—when want of food made the men kill the women
                    and children to keep themselves alive—when Spartan helots and Roman slaves were
                    scourged for faults they did not commit, and Gurths and Wambas were torn from
                    their kindred swine in the beech-woods and set up as targets for the foeman's
                    archers in quarrels not their own—when all this was done generations and
                    generations ago, and the very memory of the men and deeds is lost, must these
                    poor victims be recompensed now? It was a
                    sorrow while life lasted; and love had the ache of memory to the end of things.
                    But now it is over—like yesterday's fever; and the world—the Great Man—has gone
                    on as if those things had never been. Or rather, these and cognate things have
                    been the ground-work of that amelioration which has come for the successors.
                    They have been accumulated accusations against imperfect conditions, till at
                    last the voices grew so loud that those in power were forced to listen and
                    understand. From their dead selves men have indeed risen to higher things in the
                    concrete;—which is a nobler outlook than that happy hunting-ground for the
                    individual, as compensation for the goring of buffaloes on the prairie.
                While pain is sharp and passion strong, we demand justice, redress, compensation,
                    revenge. In a few years we shall have passed out of the sphere of our wrongs;
                    before then we shall have come to the peace of
                    patience. What matters it now? We see how small have been our own individual
                    sufferings, compared with the larger sorrows of the race, the unconscious
                    cruelty of nature, the blind tyranny of ignorance. And we would take shame to
                    ourselves to demand redress or retaliation for that which came and went so long
                    ago, and is so small a fraction in the sum! For we have ever left us—Man. Ever
                    that mighty law of moral evolution unfolds to us greater truths; ever the
                    development of society leads us higher and higher. Just as the physical man has
                    touched the beauty of the Apollo from the narrow skull and prognathous jaw of
                    the brutish primitive—just as Shakespeare has been evolved from that
                    languageless being, half beast, half human, who walked with bent knees not fully
                    erect, for all covering had but his own hairy hide, and for all tools his own
                    huge canines—so has the social man touched the sublimity of Law from the
                    unordered chaos of 
                        indi-
                        individual
                     vidual strength. We make better
                    enactments; we spread knowledge; we apply remedies; we improve conditions—all
                    for others, not ourselves. We realize with ever clearer understanding the
                    obligation of living for the future, not only for the present; for the general
                    well-being, not only for our individual good. After the practice of the right of
                    might comes the doctrine of the duties of power; after class privileges come
                    equal rights.
                Altruism, far from general acceptance as it is, is at once our highest duty and
                    our noblest consolation. To the individual, life is too often like a huge
                    cynical joke where he is led by false hopes, mocked by illusive pleasures,
                    pursued by phantom fears, and where he loses the joy of his desire so soon as he
                    gains possession. The length of the time passed in the preparation of
                    immaturity, the shortness of that of fruition, and then again the comparatively
                    long decay—with the brevity of the whole term,
                    and the fact that each individual, born helpless and idiotic, has to learn all
                    for himself from the beginning, and that he must die, leaving behind him only
                    results attainable by endeavour but not absolute possessions bequeathed to the
                    race like a sixth sense or the power of flying—the sharpness of sorrow and the
                    satiety of love—joy that is pain because of its intensity—pain that makes living
                    intolerable for its anguish—ignorance which brings disaster, yet is of itself
                    part of the inalienable condition of things—all this illusion, this
                    phantasmagoria, this darkness, where the only reality is suffering and the only
                    certainty death, makes life, as I have said, like a farce over-written by a
                    tragedy. And from this suffering, this mockery, this delusion of the senses and
                    painful striving of thought and aspiration, the only mode of escape is
                    forgetfulness of self in the good of the race.
                A few tender souls are piously grateful 
                        be-
                        because
                     cause the grass is green and the
                    flowers are sweet; because the birds sing in the trees, the butterflies are
                    beautiful to the eye, and the exquisite glory of created things delights those
                    who watch it. That is, because their senses are gratified; and the imagination,
                    a function of the emotions, follows the senses. But they forget the strife and
                    death which overarch the whole; and how the general perfection which enchants
                    them has come about only by the sacrifice of the weaker individuality. They
                    forget the ruthlessness of nature, and how that hedgerow and this close-grown
                    turf are but smaller representations of the shambles and the
                    battlefield—Aceldamas wet with hidden blood. When reminded of this wholesale
                    sacrifice for the sake of the selected margin—of the unconscious cruelty of that
                    assemblage of forces we call Nature—they fall back on the pious formula of ‘All
                    is for the best,’ and how ‘the mystery of pain is one of those things which are
                    hidden with Christ in God.’ These tender souls
                    are to virile thinkers what children are to men; and their optimism, in view of
                    what lies round them and the goal for which all sentient life is bound, is no
                    more serious philosophy than the schoolman's calculation of how many angels
                    could dance on the point of a needle is serious kinematics.
                And yet, with this perpetual recession of the Presence of God, this withdrawal of
                    the Hand of Providence in favour of an arbitrary Law that is never broken up for
                    miracles nor set aside for interposition, there is Something behind matter,
                    whether we call it Mind-stuff, Intelligence, Life, the First Cause, or God. What
                    that Something is we know not. What are our relations with it and the universe
                    outside ourselves and our planet—these also we know not. And the ultimate
                    meaning of our aspirations—the root and fruit of that religious sense which is
                    all but universal, and our belief in individual immortality, also universal— this ultimate meaning is as dark as the
                    rest.
                Why should we be virtuous, men say, when we get nothing by it? ‘Eat and drink,
                    for to-morrow we die,’ rather than the pale vigils of thought, the painful
                    discipline of self-control, that starvation of the senses we call the higher
                    life, that moral mutilation we call virtue. Why should we forego the present,
                    which is our own, for a future by which we shall not profit nor where we shall
                    be found? Ah, why, indeed! Because of the law of moral evolution, which is just
                    as irresistible as that of the physical—which is indeed the result of the
                    physical. We do not know why this law should obtain, any more than we know how,
                    from the savage chipping his flint, we have come to Nasmyth's hammer and the
                    spectroscope:—we only know that it does obtain. Just as from the lowest forms of
                    life, amorphous, undifferentiated, unconstructive, has been evolved man, so, from the brutality of primitive communities
                    where the stronger kill the weaker, and the mother eats the head of her own
                    child taken for food because one too many in the tribe, have been evolved the
                    majesty of law, the benevolence of pity, the mutual help of co-operation, the
                    restraints of conscience. So will go on being evolved still nobler theories and
                    more perfect states. It is the Law of Progress—the law under which all creation
                    lives until it changes into that dispersion of forces we call death and
                    disintegration, to be followed by a nobler reconstruction. We have no
                    explanation to give. Agnosticism has no pillar of cloud by day nor flame of fire
                    to lead by night, marking the way and illumining each step as we go. It has only
                    the guidance of experience and scientific truth as its way-lines. But the
                    Wherefore and the Whither are as obscure as the Whence and the How—as the future
                    destinies of the race or the undetected relations of the spheres.
                
                I see no more difficulty in educating men up to the highest possible moral point,
                    without the incentive of religious hope or dread, than there has been in
                    educating them to be honourable, chivalrous, refined gentlemen, independent of
                    the religious idea. A man does not forbear to peep through the keyhole, read an
                    open letter, pocket a forgotten sum of money, or do any other purely
                    dishonourable action, for fear of God or the devil, but because of that
                    self-respect which is the root-work of all honourable thought. This sentiment
                    carried farther comes to Altruism; and altruism is the basis of all the higher
                    morality, and is cultivable without reference to personal gain. We must all
                    confess that religion, minus moral and intellectual education, does but little
                    for the world. The Neapolitan lazzarone is intensely religious;—that is,
                    believing in the personal and ever-present as well as omnipotent power of unseen
                    deities. This does not make him other than a
                    thief or a murderer when occasion offers itself. It is the fear of the law and
                    the certainty of the material policeman which debar men from crime. The hidden
                    deities are to be propitiated; and the sword which is not seen may never
                    strike.
                Personally, the religious sentiment embodied in a creed and an actual God has
                    immense private influence. It gives a man a force beyond himself, and helps him
                    to bear misfortune because it leaves him always hope. Still, even here, we find
                    that resignation and self-control are matters of temperament rather than of
                    intellectual assent; for some who believe devoutly never reconcile themselves to
                    their sorrow—never ‘forgive God,’ according to the saying of Talleyrand—and the
                    willingness of the spirit never overcomes the weakness of the flesh.
                On the other hand, we see both patience and self-control carried to the last
                    point of perfection with some philosophers who
                    have had recourse to no strength but their own.
                I have taken all this from what I may call the itinerary of my thoughts. If the
                    summary has the look of inconsequence to more trained dialecticians than I, to
                    myself at least the attachments are distinct. It all seems to hang together—to
                    pass step by step from the rejection of revelation to the confession of
                    Agnosticism; from belief in Providence to the recognition of Law; from the
                    crystallized definite to the nebulous unknown; from the happiness of the
                    individual through eternity to the well-being of the whole human race in time;
                    from Egotism to Altruism; and from personal rights to generalized duties.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER VI.
                AFTER a few years' stay in America, where she lost some of her children,
                    and others had married or made themselves an independent status, my wife came
                    back to England. She was as sincerely persuaded that she was divinely inspired
                    to return as that she had been divinely inspired to go. The field was wider
                    there, she said, but the land was more stubborn here. Hence the need of workers
                    was greater here than there, since moral cultivation has a tendency to spread
                    itself when once begun; and it is better to make barren soil fit to receive the
                    good seed than to devote one's energies to
                    easy tilling and kindly harvests. Comparative weakness could do this; but it
                    wants exceptional energies—or rather, in her vocabulary, exceptional gifts of
                    inspiration and direction—to do the other. Anyhow, she made her duty quite clear
                    to herself, dear soul! She would have made it just as clear had it been the
                    contrary reading.
                I confess I was glad to see her again, and I was much moved when we met. The
                    agitation was only on my own side, She had attained a quasi-Buddhistic state of
                    suppressed individuality wherein no personal circumstances stirred her. She
                    lived only for her work—to spread the knowledge of the truth as she held it, and
                    to bring feminine souls into the liberty she had found for herself. Her crusade
                    was against luxury, fashion, dress, pleasure; her exhortation was for plain
                    living and high thinking—agitation for the direct political action of women—and self-
                        conse-
                        consecration
                     cration of the choicer sort to
                    celibacy and propagandism. Where she had been advanced before, she was extreme
                    now, and sometimes out of sight altogether.
                Since her residence in America she had grown stouter. Her thinned hair was grey;
                    the low-toned creamy complexion of times past had become reddened and roughened.
                    She was neither fresh nor well-busked; she was noticeably in want of strings and
                    stays; and her dress gave one the impression of long service, hard usage, and
                    crying need of repair and renovation. But she had lost none of that seraphic
                    sweetness which had always made her beautiful, and which now shone out through
                    all this personal deterioration as the soft glory of an opal comes up through
                    the scratched surface. And she was the same kind of virginal matron she had ever
                    been.
                All my old affection for her, all my old respect for her sincerity, came back in
                        a flood on my heart. The bitterness of the
                    past was swept away; only its tenderness in the ideal remained. I forgot her
                    high religious contempt for my lower moral nature, her doubt and disbelief, her
                    reproach and opposition; and I saw her only in her own best form—faithful,
                    enduring, real—one worthy of respect, and by her sex to be surrounded with that
                    kind of protection which means honour and includes love. Perhaps on a second
                    trial things would come more right than before. And life was lonely to me; and
                    barren to her of all that made a woman's home.
                I did not calculate, and I yielded to the impulse. But when I asked her to come
                    back to me and try me once more as a companion and husband, she looked at me
                    with her placid smile and serene far-away look, and refused me—not harshly, not
                    unkindly, but without the faintest tremor in her level voice, the faintest note
                    of hesitation or wavering.
                
                ‘Live with you again, dear friend?’ she said. ‘If I did, I should be worse than
                    Peter when he denied the Lord! Go back to the bondage of your worldliness?—to
                    the religion of clean tablecloths and silk gowns?—to the soul-destroying
                    materialism which makes time of more value than eternity, and punctuality in the
                    hours of food of more importance than planting the good seed and saving souls
                    alive? My poor Chris—never!’
                ‘But, Esther,’ I remonstrated; ‘surely cleanliness and order and refinement are
                    gains to humanity and helpers to better things!’
                ‘I prefer the simplicity of goodness and the abnegation of all forms of
                    sensuality,’ she answered. ‘Where so much is to be done, it is a sin to waste
                    time on these minor matters. Souls are perishing for lack of spiritual
                    sustenance, and you are occupied about dainty luxuries for your body; children
                    are starving in the streets for want of bread,
                    and you criticize the butter of which your cake is made. And you want me to go
                    down into that pit of unrighteousness? Impossible!’
                ‘It is more impossible to go back to elemental conditions,’ I said. ‘In such a
                    complex state of society as ours, all circumstances claim consideration. And
                    these artificial wants, which you condemn, give the means of subsistence to
                    thousands who else would not know where to turn for work.’
                ‘Christ did not teach this,’ she answered simply. ‘And I would rather follow
                    Christ than go into the heresies of political economy, or believe the
                    materialism of that arch-heresy of all—that thing you call sociology.’
                As I knew of old that argument on these points led to nothing but further
                    dissension, I let the conversation drop, and, instead of taking her to my house,
                    helped her to one of her own.
                
                After some difficulty we found what she wanted—a gardener's cottage of four
                    rooms, about half an hour's journey from London on the South-East line. Here she
                    still lives, with a maid-servant of the not over-ripe age of sixteen, whom she
                    instructs in godliness and woman's rights—God's law and the righteousness of
                    celibacy—contempt for the individual, and respect for the abstract, man—in
                    devotedness to works of charity and indifference to cleanliness, punctuality,
                    the art of cooking, or methodical housekeeping. She takes these girls at
                    fourteen and keeps them till they are twenty, when she has, as she says, made
                    them efficient missionaries and fit to continue the work on their own
                    account.
                She comes to see me sometimes when she runs up to London; and she lets me help
                    her with money, as in the old fraternal days when poor Joshua was alive. I go to
                    her on the Sundays when she writes and tells me she is alone and wishes to
                        have me. This is not often; for she has no
                    time to bestow on a castaway whom she knows she cannot reclaim. At first I used
                    to supplement her scanty larder with external supplies. But she was so sincerely
                    distressed by the influx of unwelcome luxuries, and lamented so pathetically the
                    moral harm I was doing her young servant by thus pampering her sensual appetite,
                    that I have now given up the attempt. So we ‘share and share alike,’ as she says
                    with her serene smile, when she conscientiously divides into three equal parts a
                    dish which is about enough for one healthy appetite.
                After dinner she comes and sits beside me, giving me the armchair, while she
                    takes one without a back and with a broken seat.
                ‘Dear friend, how much nicer this is than that hateful life in Cave Gardens!’ she
                    often says, while she pats my hand and sometimes strokes my coat-sleeve
                        benignly. ‘How much better you are as a
                    friend outside my life than as a husband belonging to it! And what a mistake we
                    made when we gave up the liberty of friendship for the bondage of marriage!’
                ‘If you are pleased, I am also, my dear,’ I answer. ‘But I wish I saw you more
                    comfortable.’
                ‘More comfortable, dear friend? I am only too well cared for! Would that all my
                    poor sisters were as well off as I!’
                After a little preface of this kind, she generally reads me an address, a sermon,
                    an essay—something which she thinks will be good for my soul and perhaps be the
                    means of letting a little light into the dark places. When I assent to certain
                    passages, or say something which seems to her less hopelessly unrighteous than
                    usual, she looks at me tenderly, her soft eyes softer than ever, and her mild
                    face illumined by that inner light which makes her always beautiful, in spite of
                    the tarnished surface.
                
                ‘How I wish I might be permitted to convert you, dear friend! How I wish God
                    would grant me the grace to bring you to the light!’ she says earnestly. Then
                    she adds, with half a sigh and half a smile: ‘In His own good time! He will not
                    let you perish—the object of so many prayers as you are! For we all pray for
                    you, Chris. May our voices be heard and our supplications receive a gracious
                    answer!’
                One day she was, for her, strangely sad-hearted. In general, her simple trust in
                    the goodness and directness of Divine ordering carried her over every trial with
                    the quiescence of perfect confidence. But to-day she was overcome. She had just
                    heard of the death of a friend whom she greatly valued—that very M. Boris who
                    had been such a cause of contention between us in times past. For the moment she
                    was overwhelmed, feeling her loneliness with true womanly force, as well as
                    grieving for the loss to the cause of one who
                    had been as uncompromising a partisan as herself. This young man had been
                    strangely dear to her. She had given him more than ordinary love in its
                    combination of maternal fondness and spiritual comradeship. On the one side, he
                    had been like her eldest and dearest son; on the other, he was her chosen
                    companion, helper and even leader.
                She laid her head on my shoulder; and when I put up my hand to her face, I found
                    it wet with silent tears.
                For the second time impulse overcame my better judgment, and the tenderness of
                    pity made me see in this grieving, lonely woman one I might possibly comfort and
                    sustain.
                ‘Come back to me, my poor Esther!’ I said. ‘Let me take care of you, and complete
                    your life; and do you help me with mine.’
                For a moment she did not speak, but she drew my hand across her lips and kissed
                        it tenderly. Then she roused herself,
                    pushed back her hair, and cleared her eyes.
                ‘No,’ she said, a touch of regret in her face; ‘I should be denying God and
                    betraying the cause of righteousness to live with you again. You are unconverted
                    and I am His servant; and there can be no true union between us. We cannot come
                    together again. It would be faithlessness and perjury while you are what you
                    are!’
                ‘My dear, what nonsense all this is!’ I said. ‘What a sacrifice of reality for
                    illusion and of things for words! How far better for both of us it would be if
                    you would see life in a more rational light, and make the best of the days which
                    remain to us. Have you no duty to me, Esther? In all that world for which you
                    sacrifice yourself, have I no place, no claim? Yet I would be your best friend
                    and protector if you would let me!’
                ‘No,’ said Esther softly, but yielding no more for all her softness than yields a rock which is covered a foot deep
                    with moss. ‘I have no duty towards one who denies the truth. I have no part in
                    your life and you have no claim on mine; and to be your wife again would be a
                    sin. So let us think of something else. I will read you this last poem by Victor
                    Hugo—or shall it be one of Channing's sermons?’
                What could I do? Against such a strong principle of repugnance, it would have
                    been useless to say more; and I had too much self-respect to court my own wife
                    in vain. From this day I finally accepted my position, without either the wish
                    or the endeavour to change it. She lives in her way, I in mine; and we meet on
                    each side the ‘gulf that separates heart from heart,’ neither wishing it bridged
                    over. She has even dropped my name. She calls herself now Mrs. Kirkland Lambert;
                    and when she speaks of her ‘husband,’ she means Joshua.
                
                Some time ago a thing came into my life which caused me more pain than many other
                    events of more importance. It was a thing which humiliated me on every side—as a
                    man of the world who should have seen more clearly, and as a man who wished to
                    do good and who did harm instead.
                I had taken an unfurnished apartment in the house of a man who had been a butler
                    in a family where the wife had been a lady's-maid. They were by no means coarse
                    nor vulgar, having caught that superficial tone of refinement proper to
                    well-conditioned upper servants; and they seemed to be, and were, as honest and
                    straightforward as most people who live on others. They also professed for me a
                    great deal of kindly feeling outside their trade profit; in which, as it was
                    backed up by many uncovenanted attentions, and by uniform good-nature, I
                    believed, according to the credulous 
                        sym-
                        sympathy
                     pathy inseparable from an
                    affectionate disposition. It is so easy to me to like and so pleasant to be
                    liked, that, when the gold of kindness is paid over to me, I for the most part
                    neglect to ring it, but accept it as it offers itself—as true metal, genuinely
                    minted, and capable of bearing the test of handling.
                These people, the Penders, had an only child; a daughter at this time about
                    nineteen; for whom they had great expectations, having done the best for her
                    within their power. She had been educated at a boarding-school, whence she had
                    returned with a shallow knowledge of many things, some literary aptitude,
                    desires beyond her means to gratify, and the wildest and widest social ambition.
                    She was clever, quick to understand, with undoubted imagination, though she
                    failed in constructive faculty; and the dream of her life was to ‘get on,’ as
                    she called it—that is, to leave the house where at the best she was only the
                    landlady's daughter, and to have carriages and
                    fine dresses, money and amusements, like those others whom she had known at
                    school. She was not beautiful—scarcely pretty; but she had good colouring and
                    vivacity. And, as a man, I was not very severe on a certain pertness of manner
                    which amused me, though I can understand that it would have set the teeth of her
                    own sex on edge.
                When Mrs. Pender showed me the girl's productions, crude as they were, I saw the
                    possibility of making something of them and her, and offered to give her lessons
                    in composition and to help her with her studies. It satisfied my democratic
                    instinct to put my hand to this work of levelling-up from the lower ranks, and
                    lifting out of her inherited position one whose talent and ambition deserved
                    better things than the continuance of her mother's business of keeping a
                    lodging-house. I soon began to feel a really paternal interest in the girl. She
                    was so quick and bright that it made teaching her both pleasant and easy. Moreover, she amused me. She
                    was so naïve in her feminine affectations and impertinences; so frank in her
                    girlish liking for sweetmeats and plum-cake; so audacious in her bold
                    conclusions from slender premises, that she enlivened my lonely evenings not
                    unpleasantly.
                And I confess I like to hear the frou-frou of a woman's dress about me. I like to
                    hear the softer tones of her voice, and to look at her shining hair and the
                    smooth outlines of her flower-like face. The action of her small hands with
                    their slender wrists, and the jingle of her trinkets, please me. The sense of
                    her softness, sweetness, and dainty smallness compared to my own sinewy bulk,
                    and the feeling that I can protect her if need be, soothe what I suppose is my
                    masculine vanity. And I feel more at home with her now, in my old age, than I do
                    with my own sex. Men often rasp me, while women never fatigue. Though I was not
                    so old when this affair with Katie Pender took
                    place as I am now, still I was old enough to feel at least the foreshadowings of
                    all this quasi-degradation of age.
                It was, then, a kind of consolation to have this girl come to my rooms in the
                    evening, when I was tired with my own work and feeling solitary and out of gear.
                    Her freshness and youth, and the diverting boldness with which she caught up and
                    adopted as her own my hints and suggestions—and soon the, rather too forward
                    perhaps, rather too pert and free, but, all the same, not unpleasant kind of
                    familiarity she threw into her manner—made the hours go yet more smoothly. I did
                    not want to be only a schoolmaster. I preferred that she should look on me as a
                    half-paternal friend.
                Interested as I was in her, however, I could not blind myself to the disastrous
                    want of earnestness and thoroughness in my young pupil, which I did my best
                        to combat. She did not care to be, nor to
                    do; she only desired to appear to be, and to seem to do. She would adopt a
                    phrase, a fact, without knowing what it meant, content if it gave a false air of
                    knowledge and a superficial brilliancy to her work. If asked to verify, she
                    floundered, and tried to save herself by bold conjecture or random
                    explanation—which at least had the merit of audacity. Thus, having read in a
                    story she was writing the phrase: ‘Going to Canossa,’ I asked her: ‘What is
                    going to Canossa, Katie?’
                ‘Doing what you don't like,’ said Katie, making a respectable shot in the
                    air.
                ‘But who went to Canossa?’ I persisted.
                ‘Bismarck,’ said Katie.
                She had read the phrase in the paper, and had caught something of the meaning,
                    which she had not attempted to really understand.
                It was the same with words. She hated looking
                    out a word to get its real meaning; and as for derivations and roots, she had
                    for these a kind of horror that was comical in its excess. But she liked to pick
                    up new phrases, new expressions, and to use them liberally, if more than
                    loosely; and she was fond of the stock quotations, which she always carefully
                    guarded with inverted commas.
                ‘They make the page look furnished,’ she said in excuse, when I remonstrated.
                    ‘They are as pretty as curls on one's forehead.’
                ‘But they are bad style,’ I said. ‘You ought never to use a grand word when a
                    simple one will serve your turn, unless you are writing scientifically, when you
                    are bound to the scientific vocabulary. And if you employ these old worn-out
                    phrases and quotations, at least leave them undistinguished by your favourite
                    curls, as you call them. Who wants a sign-post for such a phrase as better late
                    than never, which I see you have put between
                    inverted commas?’
                ‘Bother!’ said Katie laconically, as she scored out the offending scratches.
                These efforts at literature were only a means to an end with Katie. If she could
                    have made money in any other way, she would. She would have rather played at
                    rouge-et-noir or ‘little horses’ than have written the finest book of the
                    generation, if she could have made sure that her stakes would have turned up
                    doubled. It would have been less trouble and more amusement. She took no kind of
                    pleasure in her work for its own sake, but, as I have said, looked on it as
                    simply a money-spinner to give her gold for her own uses.
                In her plans for the future, her father and mother had no place. All was for
                    herself alone. If she had had the trouble, was she not entitled to the reward?
                    She thought so and meant to take it. Once when I gave her mother a small chamber in the golden palace of
                    her dreams, she tossed her fair frizzly head and put on her pretty little pert
                    air—an air that suited her Roxalana nose and bright, sharp, hazel eyes, as much
                    as Esther's steadfast gaze and placid smile suited her Madonna-like face.
                ‘Oh, mamma must take care of herself!’ she said. ‘She and papa get on better
                    together than her and me.’
                Only I am afraid she said ‘pa’ and ‘ma.’
                ‘Than she and I, Katie,’ I ruled, in my quality of pedagogue.
                ‘Of course I know that! I said “she and I,” so what is the good of taking me up
                    so short?’ said Katie without blushing.
                All this would doubtless have been very disheartening, had Katie Pender been a
                    boy, or had I been a woman. But the mysterious influences of sex make us forgive
                    in the opposite camp things which would be fatal in our own; and what man of my
                        age could be extreme to mark amiss the
                    follies of a young girl of Katie's?—whom moreover he is teaching and perhaps
                    keeping from mischief. For there were certain loose points in my young friend's
                    character which often made me tremble for her future. Her desire to have money
                    was so intense—her love of pleasure, dress, display, delights, so unbridled.
                ‘I would do anything to be rich!’ she used to say, with a kind of passionate
                    energy that seemed to open the door to really terrible possibilities. ‘I do
                    believe I would commit murder for it! I know I should, if I was sure not to be
                    found out.’
                ‘You will get money if you work steadily,’ I said. ‘You have it in you.’
                ‘Work!’ said Katie, making a little grimace. ‘I hate work.’
                ‘I am afraid, however, your scheme of murder will not quite answer,’ I said
                    lightly.
                ‘Something else might,’ she returned gravely.
                
                I have no power on the press. Outsiders think I have, on account of my long
                    literary life and early connection with journalism. But if it came to a pinch, I
                    could get nothing done for myself through favour, still less shoulder up
                    another. I explained this twenty times to Katie, as I have explained it more
                    than twenty to others. On the twenty-first she went back to her old formula:
                ‘You could if you would; but you won't.’
                This meant that I could if I would get her story of about two and a half ordinary
                    octavo volumes run through a magazine, of which I knew the editor and in which I
                    myself often wrote. But to know a man well enough to dine with him once in the
                    season is not to have his business judgment in one's pocket; and the strongest
                    recommendation in the world goes for nothing, if made by one without power in
                    favour of another who has not hit the mark. The very length of the story was in its disfavour. It was too long or too short,
                    and an awkward quantity to handle for either a magazine or book issue. But this
                    had been one of my recalcitrant little pupil's acts of wilfulness wherein she
                    would not be advised. To compress into two or lengthen into three volumes, would
                    have taken time and cost trouble; and she would not submit herself to my maturer
                    judgment. In consequence of which her manuscript was returned; and she made me
                    responsible for her failure.
                I was very sorry for the poor child. She had been so confident of success that
                    she had discounted her hopes and borne herself as if all her unhatched eggs had
                    been stalwart feathered fowl. She had bought jewellery and dresses and feminine
                    rubbish of all kinds, to the extent of thirty pounds; and this was a sum utterly
                    beyond her power to meet or land, failing the acceptance of her manuscript. She
                    dared not tell her parents. Fond as they were of her, they liked their money better; and Katie would have
                    had a bad quarter of an hour had she confided her perplexities to them.
                    Meantime, her debts pressed and her creditors refused to wait. The summing-up of
                    it all was—an act of good-natured weakness on my part which led to all the rest.
                    It was the initial loosening of the foundations which ended in the overthrow. I
                    gave her the money to pay her debts, and in return she gave me a kiss; which I
                    took as I should have taken it from my own daughter. But she startled me a
                    little by saying very demurely, as she looked up at me from under her brows, her
                    head bent down:
                ‘I wonder what my mamma would say, if she knew that I had given you a kiss and
                    you had given me thirty pounds?’
                ‘Say?’ I answered. ‘Well, she would say it was dear at the price!’
                ‘It might be dearer,’ said Katie simply.
                After this Katie adopted a curious 
                        man-
                        manner
                     ner to me—partly mysterious, partly
                    familiar—as if we had some secret in common;—almost as if she had some hold over
                    me. Here was my folly. I should have put my foot down now, and firmly, and I
                    should have ended the whole affair. But I was weak in my good-nature and absurd
                    in my quasi-parental indulgence, and so things drifted; and perhaps I deserved
                    all that I received.
                I am sorry to say that Katie got a good deal of money out of me. She was always
                    going to pay me back, but when she did get a story published and paid for she
                    had other claims more dangerous and pressing, than mine; and the sums asked for
                    as loans soon became confessed as gifts. Increasing with this facility for
                    gratifying them, her demands became at last too onerous; and I found myself
                    forced to make a stand. I was willing to help her to a moderate extent, but I
                    could not carry her on my shoulders for life. Besides, I did not really care for
                        her. I had by now only a very feeble
                    interest in herself, and none in her work; for I saw that she had no ambition of
                    a noble kind, and only, as I say, desired success because of its result—money.
                    So the end had to come, as the end of all false hopes and fancies must; and one
                    evening, when she brought in the customary tale of her embarrassments, I put up
                    my first stockade.
                ‘I am sorry,’ I said; ‘but I cannot help you any more. Let me advise you again,
                    as a man who has worked hard for his own hand—be less extravagant. Do not get
                    into debt, and never buy what you cannot pay for at the time. Do not treat a
                    possible gain as a certain possession. I am qualified to give you this advice,
                    for I have kept myself free from debt from the first year of my working life up
                    to now; and this has been done by self-denial and care.’
                ‘What am I to do, if you do not help me?’ said Katie, rather defiantly. ‘You have
                    accustomed me to look to you for help, and it
                    is mean of you to throw me over now.’
                ‘My good Katie, I told you last time that I was not able to go on with this,’ I
                    returned. ‘Do you know how much you have had in six months?—just a hundred
                    pounds. And a hundred pounds to a girl in your position, spent in dress and
                    jewellery and going down to Ascot, and all the rest of it, is too much.’
                ‘In my position!’ said Katie in a flame. ‘What is my position so different from
                    other girls' that I should never have any pleasure?’
                ‘Our position is determined by our means,’ I answered. ‘If we have not money for
                    this or that, we cannot help it, and we must go without. And it is not every
                    girl who spends a hundred pounds in six months, with only a few trinkets and
                    silk gowns to show for it.’
                ‘It was your fault,’ said Katie, with a certain cruel justice. ‘You ought not
                        to have begun it from the first. And
                    either you should have got my stories taken or you should not have encouraged
                    me. You are bound to help me now, seeing where you have brought me. It is you
                    who have ruined me.’
                ‘I do not quite follow that argument,’ I said gravely, keeping down my temper
                    with just a conscious little effort. ‘Because I have done my best for you in
                    teaching you, and your work has not been accepted, I do not see why I should
                    have you on my hands for life. I have other claims; and remember, I am a poor
                    man myself.’
                Katie's face flamed, and her passion with her face. She burst out into a torrent
                    of invectives of which I remember nothing but a few epithets, and a general
                    feeling of scalding water and fizzing fire-works. Then she flung herself out of
                    the room—her last words containing a vague threat of some tremendous catastrophe
                    to happen before long, unless I would assist
                    her as I had taught her to expect I would.
                The next day, however, she came and threw herself at my feet, clasping my knees
                    and praying for forgiveness, weeping the while as if her heart would break, and
                    sobbing hysterically.
                It was a desperate pain to me to see the girl thus humiliate herself. All forms
                    of abjectness, of grovelling, are worse to me than the wildest insolence; and I
                    feel myself degraded in the degradation of another. I told Katie to get up, and
                    I tried to lift her from the ground; but she clung to my knees with a grasp too
                    tight and tenacious to be released, vowing all the time that she would not—she
                    would not—unless I would say that I forgave her. She was broken-hearted—she was
                    ill with sorrow and crying—she had cried all night—and she would never be happy
                    again unless I said: ‘Katie, I forgive you.’
                And I—I committed my second act of folly;—and
                    forgave her. I believed in her sincerity, in the genuine source of her tears, in
                    her sorrow and repentance. I was old and she was young. It is for us who are old
                    to show pity for the young—pity for their follies, their exaggerations, their
                    faults, and, above all, their sins against ourselves. It is for us to teach them
                    the wise tenderness of magnanimity—to give them a practical lesson in
                    benevolence, self-command, unselfishness. If we are not pitiful, who will be? If
                    we cannot forgive, who shall?
                Besides, I had already taught myself to forgive. I had forgiven that young artist
                    woman who had quietly stolen money out of my purse while I was out of the
                    room—on an errand for her benefit. I had forgiven more than one traducer; and I
                    had said to myself: ‘Strength can afford to pardon baseness.’
                So I put my principles into practice once again; and this time I pardoned the outrage, believing that I was sowing good
                    seed and doing the girl the service which comes from example.
                For a few days all went well between Katie and myself, and I congratulated myself
                    on the value of acted morality when I saw her modest mien, her renewed industry,
                    her self-restrained air. But it was not for long. That pitchfork never does
                    succeed in the end; and it did not now. Her former outbreak and my leniency
                    were, in a manner, the spring-board whence she took her next leap into the arena
                    of insolence; and we had another scene, even more violent than the first, when
                    she asked me again for money and again I refused it.
                Weak as I had been, and sorry as I was for her, I thought it best to let her
                    finally understand that she must not depend on me, nor on anyone but herself,
                    for what she wanted. I knew no better way to stem the tide of foolish
                    extravagance which had set in than to make her feel her own 
                        re-
                        responsibility
                     sponsibility. It cost me something
                    to be firm. All that I have just said of the conduct of the old to the young
                    plucked at my heart and troubled my conscience; for it is hard to persuade one's
                    self that one is doing right when one gains by the process. Pleasure and
                    self-interest somehow take the backbone out of virtue; and the most robust
                    moralist may confess to qualms when his pocket is the fuller by just so much
                    devotion to his principles.
                Nevertheless, I held on; and Katie's flames, though they scorched me, did not
                    consume.
                Then suddenly, swift as a flash she calmed down, raised her eyes quite humbly,
                    and said in a low voice: ‘I am sorry I spoke as I did. You have been very good
                    to me—far too good—and I have been an ungrateful beast.’
                A few tears dropped quietly from her eyes as she spoke. There was no passionate
                    bewailing, no hysterical tumult, as in the
                    first scene. It was, on the contrary, a very womanly and dignified repentance
                    which touched me profoundly; and I knew myself well enough to know that I would
                    have yielded to a dead certainty had she not abruptly left the room. She did not
                    hear me call to her to come back. Had she, I would have given her what she
                    wanted.
                The next morning Mrs. Pender came, as usual, to receive her orders. Her face wore
                    a curious expression—doubtful, distressed, half-inquiring, half-suspicious—all
                    underscored by a certain timid pleasure as if afraid to trust itself.
                After we had said what we had to say about the weather, the gas, the water and
                    the dinner, she put back a chair into its place, wiping the back with her apron
                    and fingering it nervously. Then she cleared her throat and began, as if speech
                    were a little difficult to her:
                ‘You are very kind to my daughter, sir, and I
                    am sure both me and her father feel it much; but, if you will let me say so, I
                    don't think you are quite judicious. My Katie is as good a girl as ever lived,
                    but she is young yet and rather too fond of dress and all that. We didn't say
                    anything to you before. A gold watch and chain, and a few brooches and
                    bangles—well, they don't come amiss. And, of course, if she makes money, as she
                    says, by her writing, she is right to spend it on her clothes as she likes. But
                    when you come to diamond rings—then I think, sir, if you'll allow me, I must ask
                    you not to. Diamond rings are not for the like of Katie, for all that she will
                    not be a pauper when me and her father dies.’
                All this was said with evident embarrassment, but with the verbal smoothness of
                    one who has learned a lesson by heart and repeats it word for word without
                    stumbling.
                ‘Diamond rings!’ I cried. ‘What do you mean?’
                
                Mrs. Pender looked at me with a little alarm. It struck me at the time that she
                    looked at me as if I were mad.
                ‘That beautiful diamond ring of yours that you gave Katie last night,’ she
                    answered. ‘But I told her I would never let her wear it; and I want you to take
                    it back, if you will, sir. Katie asked her father to change it into money, which
                    would be more useful to her than them stones on her hand; but I stopped that.
                    If, however, you like to give her a trifle, not to let her feel disappointed, I
                    will not say nay; but that is as you like yourself, sir. You are not bound to do
                    it if you don't choose.’
                Now, what was I to do?—tell Mrs. Pender the truth—that I had not given the girl
                    that one costly gem I possessed—that diamond ring which Cordelia Gilchrist had
                    given me, and which I did not wear, jewellery not being in my way? Was I to tear
                    the mother's heart and ruin the daughter's character by proclaiming her the thief and liar she was?—or was it the higher
                    duty to accept the situation, with all its fraud and desecration, and save the
                    mother's pain while I shielded the girl's repute?
                I do not know how long I kept silent. I was so overwhelmed by the discovery of
                    Katie's audacity and shamelessness, so perplexed between the conflicting duties
                    of truth and kindness, that I was, as it were, struck dumb; and what Mrs. Pender
                    must have thought of me was as much a mystery as the rest.
                ‘I hope you are not vexed with me, sir,’ said Mrs. Pender at last.
                Her voice roused me.
                ‘I would rather your daughter had brought it back to me herself,’ I answered,
                    speaking to the truth and not to the appearances of things.
                She stared at me hard, and I could see that some unpleasant suspicion was in her
                    mind; but I was too much annoyed by the whole affair to care what she
                        thought. I knew the truth; and, knowing
                    that, I was indifferent to the rest. That I should be suspected of heaven knows
                    what iniquity would be only according to the irony of fate, which punishes our
                    moral successes far more than our failures, and makes us suffer when we do right
                    while it sets us in high places when we do wrong.
                This little episode was really one of the most painful of the minor trials of my
                    life. I, at my age and with my wide experience, to have been tricked and
                    betrayed by a wretched little half-educated girl to whom I had done so many
                    kindnesses, and to be bound by the law under which I strove to live to accept
                    and not retaliate—to suffer and not betray—all the while knowing that this young
                    creature was laughing in her sleeve at the very qualities on which she had
                    planned the success of her crime—it was indeed a matter for anger and
                    humiliation. I was disgusted with her and that mean phase of human nature
                    represented in her; but I was more disgusted
                    with myself—with my want of common-sense and firmness in not refusing the girl
                    at first—my want of perspicacity in not seeing through her shallow baseness of
                    character—my molluscous soft-heartedness which had allowed me to be so played
                    on. No one, I think, ever belaboured himself more savagely than I cudgelled
                    myself at this time, nor was less satisfied with any part of his moral
                    acreage.
                Neither was I sure that I had done right in not telling Mrs. Pender the truth.
                    Who was I, that I should ordain a fellow-creature to live in a fool's paradise,
                    because I shrank from the pain of inflicting pain? Would it not have been better
                    to have given the mother the power of rebuke, and by so much therefore the
                    stronger leverage of reform? Who so fit as a mother to know all about her
                    child—even when to know all would be to discover unsuspected vices and even
                    undreamt-of crime?
                
                Yet, would she have believed it, had I told her the truth? Between her daughter's
                    word and mine, I think that mine would have been the weaker. Katie would have
                    sworn to the gift, I to the theft; who would have judged between us? For I could
                    not have denied that I had given her such and such sums of money; and if the
                    one, there was no valid reason why not the other. For all that, my tortured
                    conscience accused me daily, and my life at this moment was by no means
                    pleasant.
                Of course this ugly little episode put an end to all my help in literary matters,
                    and was the seal of Katie's banishment from my rooms. Soon also it was the cause
                    of my leaving the house; for the whole thing was too painful to me, and I was in
                    a false position throughout. I was conscious, moreover, that underneath in the
                    hidden depths lurked other matters than those which came to the front. I saw
                    this by Mrs. Pender's manner; and I guessed
                    what that little scaramouch had said; but I thought it best not to inquire too
                    closely. So, when my quarter was out, I gave notice, and in due time left the
                    house where I had made such a bad investment of hope and endeavour.
                The sequel was a terribly sad one. Some years after this I was walking home one
                    night when I heard a woman's step behind me, closing on me. Soon some one pulled
                    me by the coat, and said softly:
                ‘Mr. Kirkland! Mr. Kirkland!’
                I turned round, and underneath her paint and haggard misery, her tattered finery
                    and pitiful attempt at smartness, I recognised the wreck of poor,
                    conscienceless, pleasure-loving Katie Pender. She had plunged headlong into the
                    abyss for that cursed love of gew-gaws and dissipation by which many a better
                    woman than she has been destroyed; and here was the end!—ruin, degradation,
                    starvation; all for the sake of a few fine dresses and some days of false
                        flourish! She had begun by robbing me, she
                    ended by robbing her parents. She had begun by giving me pain, she ended by
                    breaking her mother's heart; while her father took to drink, as the best way he
                    knew to meet his sorrow and conquer his despair. Now the end was near for her.
                    The evil was too deep to cure, do what one would for her; and I did what I
                    could. I at least managed that she should die decently, and so far in
                    comfort.
                I found her father and brought him to her bedside; and I made him forgive her at
                    the last. It was a hard fight to get this done; but I reasoned him into a more
                    generous frame of mind than he brought with him at the first. The ruin had been
                    too terrible to be lightly passed over, even with the help of paternal love.
                    For, as strong as had been that love, so strong and deep was the wrath following
                    on the shame and sin and sorrow that the girl had caused. The hoarded savings of
                    years gone; the house where they had lived so
                    respectably given up after the bailiffs had been put in; the wife whom he had
                    really loved dead of distress; the daughter, on whom both parents had lavished
                    so much hope, so much pride, a mere castaway from whom good women drew back
                    their skirts:—yes, it all made forgiveness hard! But he broke down at last into
                    a flood of tears, and taking her in his arms, sobbed out:
                ‘My girl! my girl! May God forgive you as freely do I, your father!’
                So far the tragedy of the past was redeemed, and the sharpness of death's sting
                    was blunted.
                But the question always remains with me as a sore thought:—How far was I
                    unconsciously answerable for this terrible destruction? If I had never tried to
                    play Providence—if I had been as stern as Fate and Law are stern, and had
                    suffered the natural consequences to follow unchecked on action—would it have
                    happened at all? I think not. Sinless I might
                    be, but I was Cain as well. I had slain my little sister in my well-meant
                    efforts to help her; and through her I had destroyed two worthy people who had
                    never done aught but good and kindness to me. Wise after the event, I could
                    reason it all out now and follow the crooked course step by step. At the time I
                    seemed to be going quite the other way. It is not only in the material
                    wilderness that we walk round in a circle, or lose our way altogether, when we
                    believe that we are going straight as the crow flies and making a bee-line for a
                    certain point. The moral path is just as unsatisfactory and as delusive. But to
                    do evil where we seek to do good, to ruin a life we have done our best to
                    improve, is the most painful of all these wanderings—these strayings. Sinless
                    Cains—yes, there are many of these in the world, on whose brow Conscience has
                    set the brand! Homicides by misadventure! The misadventure was unintentional,
                        but the homicide is not the less a fact;
                    and the death of that poor creature is no less due to our own hand. Yet, if we
                    did not play Providence for our fellow-creatures, what would become of them? And
                    is it not braver and better to dare the shame of failure, with its
                    after-consequence of self-reproach, than to let the struggling wretch sweep by
                    in the current, and not stir one's self to help, in fear lest one should be too
                    weak to pull to shore and unable to set firmly on the dry land? Have we not to
                    be brave to conscience and to dare self-reproach, as well as to withstand other
                    dangers and support other pains without flinching?
            
            
            
                CHAPTER VII.
                VARIOUS legacies have been left me in my life—pictures, trinkets,
                    ornaments and money. Only one has been paid over to me. This was the legacy left
                    me by one who had been the very heart of kindness—the truest of all true friends
                    to those who trusted him; and it came through the hands of her who is the soul
                    of honour, as loyal as he had been faithful and with generosity and sympathy to
                    match his. Now, however, I received a legacy which was duly paid over and
                    delivered, no one disputing the claim. This was a young girl of eighteen, left
                    to my charge by her father, my brother-in-law,
                    who thought I would do well for my dead sister's only child, and that I would
                    supply his place, at least so far as tenderness and paternal consideration went.
                    Thus my niece, Claudia Hamilton, came to me to be my daughter, and the order of
                    my life was changed to receive her.
                I do not want to be hyperbolic, but I do not know the words which would be too
                    highly coloured to express this sweet child's charm. Throughout my long life I
                    have never seen anyone more thoroughly and essentially courteous in mind than
                    she. I cannot express it differently. Obedient, gentle, steadfast, unselfish,
                    Claudia was a typical woman of the best kind—thinking of others more than of
                    herself, and in honour preferring one another to the letter. But she had nothing
                    of the oppressiveness belonging to conscious unselfishness offering itself for
                    admiration. She did not make you feel, as some
                    do, that she was making this sacrifice for your sake, foregoing this personal
                    pleasure, undertaking this burdensome office, all for your gain and delight; but
                    she did everything with that unconscious sincerity which gives additional value
                    to an unselfish action—she radiated thought and consideration, love and
                    attention, as the sun radiates heat or the earth sends up the dew. I do not know
                    the moral faults she had. She must have had some; but either they were so
                    superficial they got brushed away in a passing breath, or so deeply buried
                    underneath her virtues they never came to the surface at all.
                Graceful and artistic, she was by no means markedly intellectual. She had
                    excellent taste and as excellent judgment. But she had a certain slowness of
                    thought which grew to be one of her charms to me. It was so pretty to see her
                    soft face full of perplexity and doubt, and to hear her beg for a little time of
                    delay, wherein she might think over a thing
                    and make up her mind about matters which most people would have settled off-hand
                    and decided on the instant—that I preferred this brooding, slow-paced
                    reflectiveness to its antithetical sharpness. More especially as, when she had
                    thought over a choice, a situation, and finally made up her mental packet, she
                    almost always came to a just conclusion and showed a rather rare amount of
                    reasonableness and balance. But she was undeniably slow in the process. Where
                    Kate Pender had been like the sharpened point of a needle, Claudia Hamilton was
                    as a smooth and rounded pearl. And after the needle-point, that smooth, fair
                    pearl was decidedly a relief.
                She was pretty too; and that went for something. She had hair and eyes which
                    would have been a fair stock-in-trade for a professional beauty. The sun had
                    entangled itself in the one; the others were soft as velvet—like great brown
                    moths, sleepy, tender, almost pathetic in
                    their patient quietness. Her hands and arms were absolutely perfect; and her
                    figure was slight and singularly graceful in its lines. So pretty, so well-bred,
                    so charming in her character, so sweet in her temper—she was a prize; and when I
                    had fully learned the true nature of my latest legacy, I was well content with
                    the bequest.
                This child gave me back my home. I took a pleasant house, and engaged as her
                    chaperon a well-mannered, well-educated lady, as frigid as an iceberg so far as
                    men were concerned, but sympathetic and maternal enough to girls. As I was
                    married, she could not have any designs on me; and even if I had been a
                    bachelor, she would have had none. So we made a delightful home of it—we three
                    units coming together in this casual way and soon welding into a compact and
                    harmonious whole. And for four years all went merry as a wedding-bell. There
                        was not a hitch anywhere; not a cross no
                    heavier than a shred of pith; not a stumbling-block no bigger than a straw. We
                    got on together in the perfect accord proper to people whose intimacy never
                    degenerated into familiarity, and who respected themselves too much not to
                    respect one another.
                Those four years were the happiest of my life—the only perfect years when I was
                    free from clouds or storms. I had as my daily companion this dear child whom I
                    loved like my daughter; and her chaperon, Mrs. Olly, was all that she should
                    have been—quiet, unobtrusive, well-bred, high-principled, and of good influence
                    in things purely feminine over Claudia. Our joint moneys—for my niece had her
                    own fortune—made a home of sufficient luxury for all moderate wishes; and I was
                    both happy and proud when I introduced my pretty girl to my friends as some one
                    claiming all men's admiration. For her sake I once more took up the lapsed habits of society, and went
                    out into the world I had so long abandoned. I liked to see how much she was
                    admired, and how prettily she bore herself among the youths and men who
                    fluttered round her, and singed their wings to no purpose save their own pain.
                    She was fond of admiration to a certain extent, just as she was coquettish in
                    her dress to a certain extent; and I was content that it should be so. I would
                    not have wished her other than she was—of her age, and perfect in that; but not
                    unnatural either in self-abnegation or asceticism. We went a great deal abroad,
                    where she was besieged with offers of marriage from men who were in love with
                    her beauty truly, but to whom her fortune—magnified by report—had also something
                    to say in the matter. But no one would do—no one exactly fitted; and she kept
                    her heart whole and her fancy free and did not wish for a change. She was so
                    happy as she was, she used to say with her
                    sweet half-tremulous smile, she did not wish to turn down the present page. And
                    sometimes she added that she did not think any one would care for her so much as
                    I did. She was about right there. For, my love had idealized her, and I saw in
                    her only her angel—her highest, best and flawless self; and even affectionate
                    husbands do not often do this with their wives. It takes the distance which lies
                    between a parent and a child to give this power; standing close, shoulder to
                    shoulder and on an equal height, makes it almost impossible. And so far the old
                    saying holds true: ‘It is better to be an old man's darling than a young man's
                    slave.’
                In an evil hour—wretch that I am to say so!—there was brought to our house a
                    young barrister, Launcelot Haseltine, already beginning to be favourably known
                    in his profession. And with his advent the web of peace which my sweet Lady of
                        Shalott had been hitherto content to weave
                    floated wide—the mirror through which she had seen the world of love at
                    second-hand cracked—and she found her fate and sealed my sorrow.
                I had nothing to say against the marriage. It was all lucent and lustrous; and if
                    Claudia wished it, what was I that I should object? The end of all things dear
                    and pleasant to me had to come. The enchanted castle of my content had to fall;
                    and I had once more before me the loneliness which this quasi-daughterhood had
                    dispelled.
                Mr. Haseltine received a good appointment in India, and I looked into my
                    Claudia's pale face for the last time on board the steamer which in her bore
                    away all my joy.
                I tried hard to be grateful for what had been, and not to sour the past by
                    lamentations in the present; to be cheerful and to take an active interest in
                    things and people as I had done when my heart
                    was at rest and I was happy in my home. But human nature was too strong for me;
                    and I had again the old conflict to go through—again to fight with my
                    wild-beasts of sorrow and disappointment and loss, till I had conquered
                    them—unless I would be conquered by them.
                The time was very dreary, very sad. I thought that all love had died out for the
                    rest of the years I had to live. I promised myself I would have no more
                    enthusiasms, make no more close friendships, open my inner heart to no ideal for
                    the future;—never again—never again! Love had ever brought me pain in excess of
                    joy; and henceforward I would live on the broad commonland of friendships that
                    were kindly, refreshing, sustaining, but not exclusive to me; friendships where
                    I was one among others, and where I made numbers stand in stead of specialities.
                    I would have no more private gardens cultivated with my heart's blood, to see them laid waste by disappointment,
                    separation, death.
                What supreme folly it was to put one's happiness into the power of others—to hang
                    one's peace like a jewel round another's neck! The wise man keeps his own
                    possessions sure. It is only lunatics who scatter their treasures far and wide
                    among those who, by the law of their own life, cannot guard them. And what was I
                    but a lunatic, with this insatiable need of loving—this inexhaustible power of
                    giving? Why had I ever let this dear child creep so far into my heart, so that
                    when the appointed end of a girl such as she came, as come it must, I should
                    suffer as I did? For indeed her loss was quite as severe a trial to me as the
                    break-up of my married life had been, when I had had to begin again the struggle
                    proper to youth, without the hope, the energy, the unworn nerves of youth, and
                    further handicapped by the sense of disappointment and illusion. Truly I was an unlucky investor of affection!—but the
                    strange law of loss—the strange ruling of fate that I should not root—had never
                    pressed so hardly on me as now. For long months I was spiritually sick, so that
                    sometimes I despaired of my own recovery.
                By degrees, however, the old recuperative force made itself felt, and my vigorous
                    vitality reasserted itself. I recovered my moral tone. My power of hope and love
                    came back to me; and life was not over for me. Struck down again and again as I
                    had been, I was not conquered; and I should continue the fight till yet later in
                    the evening. The sun was westering rapidly, but daylight still remained. The
                    present had its flowers, the future might bear its fruits; and neither I nor
                    nature was exhausted. My wounds healed as they had healed before, and I seemed
                    to wake as from sleep and to bestir myself after. It was impossible for me to
                    live this self-centred kind of existence— this
                    retracted, mutilated moral life, and not put out my feelers for that touch of my
                    kind which is to my soul what breath is to my body.
                The first person who roused me out of the emotional lethargy into which I had
                    fallen was a mere boy—the youngest of all who had ever interested me. When I
                    first saw him, he was only seventeen. When I came to know him well, and love
                    him, he was just two years older.
                I suppose my love for my step-children had roused into full activity that
                    parental instinct which most men have in a greater or less degree. For since the
                    break-up of my home, all my lovers—if the word may be allowed me—had been young
                    creatures who had been to me like my sons or my daughters. My interest in them
                    had been of a more tender, less exacting and less reciprocal kind than for men
                    and women of my own standing. That is, it had been purely a paternal interest,
                    such as is proper to a man of my age when
                    selfhood has contracted to a mere speck in one's horizon, and the future of the
                    son has taken all the space which one's own possibilities and desires once
                    filled.
                It did not need an abnormal amount of the paternal instinct to be interested in
                    Arthur Ronalds. The difficulty would have been to have passed him by as one just
                    of the ordinary kind—no more beautiful and no less faulty than the rest of the
                    world. Far from being thus just of the ordinary kind, the boy stood out as
                    something unapproachable. His intellect was of the finest quality. His head and
                    face were curiously like the bust of the young Augustus. His character combined
                    the strength of a man with the purity of a woman. He was essentially a measure
                    of the highest standard to which humanity can attain under its present
                    conditions. Quick to learn; accurate in memory; with a critical faculty not
                    often found in an intelligence even more mature than his, nor with an experience far wider; full of poetic fancies and
                    at the same time philosophic and constructive to a remarkable degree; innocent
                    of evil in his own person, but already a rationalist in the calm way in which he
                    could look on human life as it is—analyze passions and accept results—examine
                    motives, detect error, and assign beliefs and practices to their causes;—his
                    youth, full of charm as it was, seemed to promise a manhood of surpassing
                    brilliancy and power. In him I saw one of the world's future leaders of thought
                    and epoch-makers in the history of mental evolution. His name would be immortal,
                    for his work would be eternal; and in the long vista of ages yet to come I saw
                    the light of his mind as an illuminating power equal to that of Aristotle and
                    Plato, of Shakespeare and Newton, of Galileo and Darwin.
                We soon became great friends; and I had but one regret, that I had not been his
                    father—but one fear, the delicacy of his
                    health. His brain had developed at the expense of his physique; and the
                    consequence was a certain constitutional delicacy which gave those who loved him
                    cause to doubt and dread. At nineteen, to possess the learning and the critical
                    acumen of a man of twice that age means corresponding loss somewhere. The law of
                    compensation is inexorable, like all the other laws of nature, and a weighted
                    balance necessitates a kicked beam. Meanwhile, Arthur enjoyed life in his own
                    way, though that way was not according to the robust athleticism dear to the
                    average youth. And he, too, had his romances, his dreams, his unacted poems,
                    like any other.
                His great dream of all was the kind of life that he would make for himself, and
                    the good that he would do, when he should come of age and be in all things his
                    own master. He was heir to ten thousand a year; and ten thousand a year seems
                    like ten millions to the young—more especially
                    when they spend nine thousand five hundred in projects, and content themselves
                    with the remainder for their own modest share. Arthur did not often speak of his
                    future wealth. When he did, it was for the foundation of Chairs and
                    Professorships, for the advancement of science and philosophy, for the endowment
                    of research, which he sketched out as his intended contribution to the great sum
                    of the general good. To this he added the maintenance of those families of
                    scientific men which had been left in poverty by the premature death of the
                    breadwinner.
                He was a nineteenth-century St. Paul, substituting philosophy for theology, and
                    the love of humanity for faith in Christ. A grand and noble life lay like a
                    pathway of light before him. In him I saw that ideal self which lives in each of
                    us—a man purged of all my special faults, superior to all my weaknesses, and
                    strong enough to consolidate the hopes and aspirations which had helped me to
                    live but which I had done so little to
                    realize. An epitome of all humanity as is each individual, potentialities for
                    good are as real as those for evil; and the master in our own special line of
                    thought or being is our translated self, perfected and endowed.
                This is especially true of the young when judged by the old. We have reached our
                    limit and fallen short of our aim. But they are as yet unexhausted. Who knows
                    what hidden wealth lies within the years? Who can measure the possibilities of
                    the future? Torch-bearers as they are, we see them seize the light which we have
                    done our best to carry so far—but they will bear it farther. They will go beyond
                    our halting-place—and here again we shall be the dead selves from which they
                    will rise to higher things. This, after all, is the great link and continuity of
                    human society—the essential meaning of paternity, which in its turn is
                    self-renovation—personal resuscitation.
                There was no point of speculative opinion on
                    which Arthur and I differed, save that he was perhaps more a necessitarian than
                    I, and less tender to the faith which he had not been taught to accept. He had
                    none of the old memories, the sympathetic sentiment of childhood, to blunt the
                    keen edge of criticism. And, never having believed, for his own part, either in
                    the divinity of Christ or the inspiration of the Bible, he was unable to put
                    himself in the position of those who had believed, or did yet believe. Save for
                    such portions of the philosophy as seemed to him more beautiful, more true, the
                    whole scheme of Christianity ranked no higher with him than that of Hindùism or
                    the Greek Pantheon; and it fell below the dignity of Buddhism and the strength
                    of Mohammedanism.
                The one wonder of his intercourse with me was that there should have ever been
                    the time when I had believed in the creation of the world in six days, in the
                    Incarnation, the Atonement, the miracles, and
                    the devil; or that I should have hesitated as to my choice when I came to the
                    age of reason. How could anyone with a robust intellect, he used to say, consent
                    to be bound by these cobwebs which one vigorous effort of the reasoning faculty
                    could brush away for ever? How could such a man as I have believed that once
                    upon a time, just as in the fairy-tales, humanity was different from what it is
                    now, save as a matter of relative development? or that things took place
                    eighteen hundred years ago which would be absolutely impossible to-day? Of all
                    follies, this belief in the solution of continuity seemed to him the most
                    foolish; and he did not understand how, at seventeen—his own age when I first
                    knew him—I had ever troubled myself twice about it.
                If this absolute negation ab initio so far narrowed his intellectual sympathies,
                    it cleared the groundwork of his thoughts, and saved him from that exhaustion
                        which both accompanies and follows our
                    struggles to break loose from educational trammels. I could appreciate by my own
                    mental history the value of this stored and conserved energy, and by my own
                    loss, judge of the greater length of the stride it allowed and the time it
                    saved. And if I sometimes wished that Arthur had at one time realized the
                    wonderful feeling of pity for the human sufferings of the man Christ Jesus,
                    reverence for His teaching, adoration of Him as God eternal, and trust in Him as
                    the Saviour of mankind, which makes the poetry of Christianity and is a
                    perpetual possession of memory, I balanced the gain against the loss, and felt
                    that it was better as it was for him and for the world he was to influence.
                After I had known Arthur Ronalds for some time, I became acquainted with his
                    aunt, Mrs. Barry. She was the elder sister of his mother, and worthy to have in
                    her veins some of the same blood as ran in his. At that time I could say nothing more honourable of her. Before I knew her as
                    she was—before she became absolute in my own life—she was relatively of interest
                    and importance because of her relationship with Arthur. And I carried to her
                    both praise and glory as the reflection of my love for him. She was very fond of
                    her marvellous young nephew—considerably fonder indeed, than was his own mother,
                    who would have been better content with a more ordinary son. Having no children
                    of her own and being essentially maternal in her nature—being besides, broad in
                    her philosophy and of an intellectual development capable of understanding
                    his—this boy had taken with Mrs. Barry the place of an adopted son; and she was
                    really more to him of a mother than was anyone else. She had been abroad when I
                    had first known Arthur; which was the reason why I had not seen her until I had
                    become the lad's nearest male friend. But I had heard of her from him, and I
                        was prepared to find her the more than
                    admirable—the more than lovable—person she was.
                I did not much care for his mother, Mrs. Ronalds. She was a slight and flimsy
                    kind of fashionable butterfly who put her salvation in material things, and
                    cared for brains only when they gave artistic results which made her appear more
                    profound than she was. To her way of thinking, Arthur was a ‘sport’ more curious
                    than beautiful, and she used often to wonder how she had borne a child so unlike
                    herself in all things. His father had been dead for many years; and what the boy
                    was, was due partly to himself and partly to his tutor, a man of greater breadth
                    of thought and deeper scientific attainments than Mrs. Ronalds knew, or could
                    have understood had she known. However, here he was—in his mother's eyes a
                    strange production of nature, an ugly duckling of no special value in the
                    farm-yard nor drawing- room. That he was a
                    wild and noble swan, who would one day soar up to the skies, she did not
                    believe. He was only ‘odd’ and ‘unlike other boys’ to her; and she knew no
                    better commentary than: ‘It is a pity he is so extraordinary!’
                She was, however, both good-natured and indifferent, so that she did not worry
                    herself nor others. As Arthur was too delicate to go to school, he must be kept
                    at home. Wherefore she gave him this tutor who had been recommended by his
                    guardian; and when she had done this, and furnished and arranged his special set
                    of rooms according to her own ideas, she troubled herself no more about things
                    she could neither alter nor control. For how could she, a mere woman, dive into
                    the mysteries of Latin or Greek, mathematics, logic, philosophy, history, to
                    verify what she did not understand, and make sure that Mr. Satterthwaite was
                    teaching what she would approve? It was either trust or intelligent interference; and as she could not give the latter,
                    she had sense enough to accord the former, and to abandon the appearance of
                    command with the reality of responsibility. In this way, then, it came about
                    that young Arthur had been moulded into such a widely different form from that
                    which he had inherited. His exceptional powers had received exceptional
                    treatment; and the result was, a lad who, it was no exaggeration to say,
                    promised to be one of the kings of men in the world of thought, when his
                    adolescence should be passed and his maturity fairly reached.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER VIII.
                MY friendship with Mrs. Barry was still only in this stage of what I may
                    call incidental light, when one day I received from Arthur Ronalds a pencilled
                    note, asking me to go and see him. He was not quite well, he said, and the
                    doctor forbade him to leave the house; would I therefore go to him? He wanted to
                    see me for no special purpose, he added; only for the simple pleasure of a talk.
                    So that, if I were engaged elsewhere, I was not to think twice of his
                    request.
                He was always this unselfish creature!—always ready to give up his own desire
                        for the sake of another; as indeed belongs
                    to the highest class of mind.
                I went at once, and found him indisposed but not in actual suffering. He had a
                    slight pain about his heart, was a little feverish and flushed, and certainly
                    too actively brilliant in mind.
                ‘I feel to-day,’ he said, ‘as if my thoughts ran through my brain in lines of
                    light. And how nimble-footed they are!’
                The doctor, whom I met in his room, said there was a certain disturbance of the
                    circulation which would soon pass. He recommended rest and a reclining position;
                    and allowed me, he said, smiling, to 
                        stay
                        say
                     and talk with the patient, provided I did not argue nor let him become
                    excited.
                Arthur himself made light of his indisposition. He was always averse from
                    confessing either his transitory ailments or his constitutional delicacy; and he
                    did his best to forget that he was below the average in physical power. He was
                    not foolhardy in action, but he was both
                    sensitive and reticent in acknowledgment.
                We had a long but perfectly quiet talk that day, skimming over many subjects of
                    interest to each and of grave importance to the world at large. It was a
                    synoptical talk—the heads of that Confession of Faith to which we subscribed.
                    But it was Arthur more than I who both took the initiative and gave the
                    affirmative.
                Suggested by the fearful sufferings of a certain man we knew, dying by inches of
                    a cancerous affection of the pylorus, we discussed the benefits as well as the
                    dangers attending that euthanasia which has been too noisily advocated and too
                    coarsely ventilated. And we agreed on its advisability, as an act of mercy as
                    well as reasonableness, given the consent of the tortured dying and the
                    strictest safeguards against abuse.
                We also went over the whole question of suicide, and the right of a man to cast
                        off his individual existence, when this
                    has become intolerable. Arthur maintained this right—always with the limitation
                    of those more imperative duties to others which would be abandoned by the act.
                    As, in the case of the bread-winner of the family, who was bound to remain at
                    his post so long as those who depended on him required his support; or with the
                    mother, whose love and care and moral influence were needed by the children—no
                    matter what her own sorrows and weariness might be, she too was bound to remain
                    at her post till no longer needed; or where the happiness of another life was
                    bound up in the continuance of this.
                ‘Then,’ he said, ‘the martyrdom of life must be bravely borne to the end; and a
                    man may no more take premature rest than he may shirk the battle and slink to
                    the rear before the bugle sounds a retreat. But,’ he added, ‘outside these
                    conditions of absolute usefulness to others, I
                    hold that a man is justified in dealing with his life as he would with his money
                    or his books. It is his property; and he is the master of his own
                    possessions.’
                He then told me a touching story of a Scottish peasant, by his father's death
                    left the head of the house and caretaker of the family. He was a thoughtful,
                    well-educated, high-principled man; and he accepted the charge laid on him by
                    fate as such a man would. He wrought for, supported, educated and set out for
                    themselves all his younger brothers and sisters; and then there remained to him
                    only his aged mother. For her sake, and to carry his burden loyally to the end,
                    he consented to live; but he made no secret of his intention to kill himself so
                    soon as she should die. He was weary of life, he said. With his mother the last
                    of his duties would be fulfilled; then he might think of himself.
                So it all came about. His old mother died and he saw her decently buried. When
                        he got home from the funeral he said
                    ‘Good-night’ to his friends, shut the cottage door, and cut his throat.
                We met on the matter of cremation, and confessed its superiority to the system of
                    earth interment—especially in view of the increase of the race in civilized
                    centres, and the greater perils therefore run by the living by the greater
                    chances of disease sown with death in the soil.
                ‘I like to think that when I am dead I shall be resolved at once into my original
                    elements—not by the slow and hurtful process of decay, but by the quick
                    purification of fire,’ said Arthur, tossing back his hair with a broad sweep of
                    his hand, familiar to him. ‘If we can do no more good, it is pleasant to know
                    beforehand that we can do no harm. A negative virtue is better than a positive
                    wrong. And I have my mother's promise.’
                ‘We will add that codicil to your will when the time comes,’ I said lightly.
                
                And yet I confess to a certain superstitious creeping of my skin as I spoke. I
                    did not like to hear him talk of his death and burial to-day. And we had
                    wandered among the graves too much as it was.
                ‘Dies datus? Who knows when?’ he answered.
                ‘Not yet for you, at all events, my boy. You have your work to do before you can
                    be allowed to sleep!’
                I spoke with a rush of strange tenderness, like a flood about my heart. It
                    reminded me of the old Biblical phrase used to express parental love. For indeed
                    he was as my own—the Judah to whom had been given the crown and sceptre of
                    sovereignty; the little Benjamin, born of love and cradled in tenderness from
                    the beginning; the son of my soul and the heir of my spiritual estate—to be
                    greater than I and all those who had gone before him. Had I not been an
                    Englishman, and ashamed of my own emotion, I
                    should have taken him in my arms and kissed him.
                ‘Yes,’ he returned rather slowly; ‘I have my work to do. I often wonder if I
                    shall be strong enough to hew down so much as one square yard of the jungle of
                    superstition by which we are hemmed in on all sides—if I shall be able to add
                    even one brick to the great Temple of Truth.’
                ‘Your very existence answers that,’ I said. ‘What we are is as important as what
                    we do. A noble personality is equivalent to a noble deed.’
                ‘And the end of it all—the condition on which we hold the charter of
                    life—death:—and each individual of no more account than one diatom in the whole
                    mass—the bulk making an important stratum, but each separate unit, as a unit,
                    valueless!’
                He said this with a certain philosophic quietness—a realization of individual
                    nothingness—singularly pathetic in view of the
                    creature he himself was. His very individuality, so grandly beautiful and
                    exalted, seemed of itself the warrant of immortality. And yet, was it in reality
                    more than the individuality of a Swiss cretin, save in the accident of influence
                    on others?
                ‘We know nothing of ultimates,’ I said. ‘If the Christian heaven or the
                    Mahommedan paradise fails to satisfy the philosopher, we have always the
                    possibilities lying behind the unknown. If we cannot affirm we cannot deny.’
                ‘There is no possibility of individual existence when the machine, the organism
                    which made that individual, dissolves, or rather, I should say, resolves itself
                    into its component parts,’ he answered. ‘It is the condition on which we live
                    from the beginning. We came out of nothing, and we return to nothing. Willingly
                    or unwillingly, we must accept the law!’
                He smiled as he said this, then broke off abruptly into the woman question, on
                        the main points of which we were
                    thoroughly agreed—neither liking the situation, but both seeing the futility of
                    opposition. For he too, as I, saw in this modern endeavour of women to
                    assimilate themselves to men and to repudiate their own assigned functions, an
                    individually unconscious but practically resultant check to population—inasmuch
                    as the self-sacrifice and quietness demanded of mothers cannot exist with the
                    personal ambition of professional life, with feverish absorption in social
                    excitements, nor with the physical enjoyment of a purely out-of-door life
                    devoted to sport and athletics, like a man's. Thus, the movement, by centering
                    in self the energies needed for the continuance of the race, is, by the very
                    nature of things, a movement in the direction of sterility. It is the analogue
                    of that well-known law, so disastrous to stock-raisers, which makes that, when
                    the breed has been brought to the highest possible point of perfection, it
                    stops—the female refusing to continue it.
                    Between the two, however, a milky mother of the herd is more valuable than the
                    infertile heifer; and a brave, bright winsome mother does more for humanity in
                    the noble men and women she brings into the world and makes fit to carry on the
                    higher development, than does the sister who prefers individuality and a paying
                    profession to the self-continuance, self-sacrifice and devotion of
                    maternity.
                We agreed on the lawfulness of vivisection—the future good of the greater number
                    being of more importance than the sacrifice of the present few. And we saw in
                    the agitation that had been carried on against it as much hostility to science
                    as regard for humane principles—as much fear of what will be revealed, inimical
                    to orthodox belief, as that generous philosophy which includes the whole of
                    living nature in one ring-fence of affinity, and recognises for animals the
                    rights we claim for ourselves. But, accepting as we did, this ring-fence, this affinity, we agreed that
                    animals were therefore bound to contribute their quota of individual pain to the
                    general good. Even the most humane objectors to vivisection are at one on this
                    in the elemental matters of food and service. For these we may both sacrifice
                    and pain our poor dumb brethren. It is only Knowledge—Science—that has to go
                    bare rather than be nourished by the sorrows of these others.
                ‘Food and service indeed, are primitive conditions, like flint implements or lake
                    dwellings,’ said Arthur. ‘By increased intellectual needs we add confinement in
                    cages for the purposes of observation—of itself infinitely more distressing to
                    wild beasts and strong-winged birds than the short, sharp pain of a surgical
                    operation, or even inoculation with a disease. Going a step further, and keeping
                    pace with these ever-advancing intellectual needs, we add experimentalizing on
                    the living body for the purposes of demonstration and the discovery of such secrets of organization as could not be got
                    at in any other way. That benevolence which would create a sacred section
                    because of feebleness, and would forbear to impose a tax necessary for the good
                    of the community because the creatures taxed are unable to remonstrate or
                    resist, is injustice to the whole, however kindly to the part. Here, as in all
                    other things, the gain of the greater number sanctions the sacrifice of the
                    few.’
                ‘The reasonable verdict of scientific men must be the final decision on a matter
                    of scientific need,’ I said. ‘All the same, the law must be careful to ensure
                    due protection against abuse, and these weakest members of the community must be
                    guarded against needless cruelty.’
                ‘Certainly,’ he returned. ‘But, I confess, it seems to me that what is called
                    sport stands in as much need of legislative interference as does scientific
                    experimentalization. I suppose this is because I am not a sportsman myself, and therefore do not understand
                    the pleasure bound up in hunting a hare or winging a pheasant. But I do see the
                    enormous value of knowing how to stamp out cholera and consumption, and all
                    other diseases which now more than decimate the human race. And I see also the
                    quite as enormous value of finding out how the nerves act and are acted upon,
                    and, if possible, of coming to the starting-point of even more important secrets
                    still.’
                ‘Just so,’ I said. ‘Knowledge is the distinctive possession and most urgent need
                    of man. It must be had at all costs. And to acquire it, men suffer to the full
                    as much as do those poor creatures more directly sacrificed.’
                Then we touched on the possibility of educating the masses to think for
                    themselves—to accept responsibilities, and to frame a workable theory of life
                    without the authority of religion and on the platform only of respect for humanity and doing right for
                    right's sake, according to the law of moral evolution. We spoke again of
                    immortality and the unprovable nature of the whole subject. Yet the strength of
                    the belief—its universality, not only with ignorance, but co-existing with bold
                    thought and scientific habits of mind—were claims to consideration not to be
                    satisfactorily disposed of on the theory of illusion. That Something which lies
                    behind matter is a fact, call it what we will—that Force which is given by
                    intense religious conviction is also a fact. We may not be able to demonstrate
                    the one nor catalogue the other. All the same, they are; and ignorance of the
                    source does not destroy the reality of the outflow. Christ in Heaven, the
                    Saviour of mankind, may be a phantasm of faith; the houris of Islam may be the
                    projections only of a passionate imagination. Nevertheless, for faith in that
                    Christ who will succour and can save—for hope of that Paradise where houris are the believer's eternal delights—men have died
                    by thousands, and in their death have seen the heavenly images of their hope
                    advancing to receive them.
                ‘But these mysteries of the spiritual life are also matters of comparative
                    evolution,’ said Arthur. ‘When we come to primitive man—savages who live on raw
                    flesh, and roots and worms; who have no more sense of decency nor chastity than
                    a herd of beasts in the jungle; who cannot count, and whose language is little
                    more than a bestial grunt sharpened to a cry—what spiritual life have we there?
                    And where does this soul, of which we are so sure, begin? If at all, it is a
                    result of evolution, like the rest—a potentiality to be realized by cultivation
                    and endeavour. The grand mistake we have made is to suppose it
                    universal—coincident with life, and as integral to man as are the lungs or the
                    heart—and not something to be shaped and perfected according to the law which obtains throughout universal
                    nature.’
                ‘Even religionists feel the difficulty of the soulless man,’ I said. ‘The old
                    phrase, “Ower gude for banning and ower bad for blessing,” expresses what, if
                    your theory be correct, would be the condition of a man whose soul had never
                    come to the birth and was abortive and inert.’
                ‘A large—by far the largest proportion,’ said Arthur.
                ‘Yes; our Buddhas are very few,’ I answered.
                ‘If any,’ was the reply. ‘But if one knew for certain that the immortality of the
                    individual was in the power of the individual, what a tremendous leverage that
                    would give to lift one into the higher life!’
                ‘Religion, as it stands, gives this leverage,’ I said. ‘In our search after
                    causes, we must not forget results. Whatever may be the cause of faith, the
                    result is a power emphatically beyond our
                    normal selves.’
                ‘It would be more certain if we knew that we ourselves were the absolute arbiters
                    of our own eternal destinies,’ said Arthur. ‘We are weighted rather than helped
                    by the belief that we shall be saved, by faith alone—that grace and mercy will
                    do what self-control has failed to accomplish—that an extraneous power will
                    supplement the halting of resolve and the slackening of endeavour.’
                ‘Spirituality governed by science?’ I said.
                ‘Yes,’ he answered. ‘Else has it no truth.’
                We glanced off from this to the boy's own future, when he drew out in fuller
                    detail than ever to me before, his noble schemes for the employment of his
                    fortune when he should come of age—and how he would use, for the advancement of
                    science and the good of the whole human race through the 
                        free-
                        freedom
                     dom of thought and the acquisition
                    of knowledge, the resources which would then be open to him. His belief in the
                    glorious future of mankind was very strong. He looked forward to the time when
                    the passions, which are now cherished as part of the necessary furniture of
                    self-respect, such as jealousy, revenge, resentment—or as lawful excesses of
                    lawful emotions, such as the sickness of love, the unjust partialities of the
                    family, exclusive clanship in any form of association—would be regarded as
                    belonging to the Dark Ages, before the true light had risen. He saw no limit
                    ahead. From the primal cosmic forces to Buddha, Plato, Christ—where was the line
                    drawn, and who should dare to define the point marked No Beyond?
                I had never seen him so brilliant nor so beautiful. Take him as the measure of
                    his own possibilities, and what a grand thing indeed that future ideal humanity
                    would be! Arthur Ronalds as the type of the
                    masculine mind—just, far-seeing, self-controlled, philosophic, altruistic; Mrs.
                    Barry, whom I was getting to know for what she was, as the type of the feminine
                    character—loving, sympathetic, devoted, strong to suffer in her own person
                    without complaint, and, while smarting under her own wounds, able to bear the
                    burdens of others—who could despair of the future? who see in life only a
                    muddle, and in humanity only a failure? Give us time and we will do all! It has
                    taken millions on millions of years to evolve man out of protoplasm; it will
                    take some thousands more for all the savage and the beast to be educated out of
                    him—for knowledge to take the place of ignorance—for reason, self-control, and
                    altruism to be the motive forces of society, rather than passions, appetites and
                    selfishness, whereof the only check is external law.
                As I looked at the boy whom I grudged to the dead man who had been his
                    father—seeing in him a future leader of
                    thought, a future torch-bearer who would carry the light far and high—I noticed
                    a sudden change in his face. He first flushed violently, then turned to a
                    deathly pallor, more grey than white and livid rather than blanched. And then,
                    with a deep sigh, he fell forward in a loose heap on the couch. I caught him in
                    my arms. He was nerveless, powerless, speechless, paralyzed. The marvellous
                    mechanism of the brain was stopped, and a travelling clot, entangled in the fine
                    network of the veins, had been like a grain of dust entangled in the delicate
                    works of a watch. The movement, not quite stopped, was rendered useless for work
                    or indication. He was not dead; but he was not alive as he had been a minute
                    ago; and once more matter asserted its supremacy, and arrested function forced
                    the question: Where is now that independent entity you call the soul? where that
                    thing you call the mind? Of this future leader of thought, this past culmination
                    of 
                        intel-
                        intellect
                     lect, what was left?—an inert mass
                    of flesh, speechless and reasonless—a clogged mechanism, with all its forces
                    sterilized and obscured.
                All that evening, and through the night, and for some twenty-four hours more, the
                    boy lay in this terrible state—breathing, but not conscious; dead to himself and
                    to the world, but still existing as an organism—a mere combination of physical
                    forces working irregularly—a mere automatic machine, no more conscious than a
                    pendulum, and with no more constructive intellect than an amœba.
                Then he died—one scarcely knew when. The breathing grew gradually slower and
                    fainter, the action of the heart feebler, till at last even the sharpest sense
                    could discern nothing. It was like the fading away of the twilight after the sun
                    has set. You could not say at what precise moment the twilight became darkness.
                    Till the night was fully in the sky, you did not know that the day was done. So
                    with the moment when Arthur Ronalds passed
                    wholly out of life; and the long lingering twilight, after the sharp sinking of
                    the sun—that border-line where he had been neither alive nor dead—was
                    unmistakably at an end.
                Thus was quenched for ever one of the most glorious intellects which this
                    generation would have had—thus was dissipated the force which, concentrated in
                    that body and manifested through that brain, would have done so much for the
                    world. It passed away into space before it had made the faintest mark on the
                    sands of time. And what was left? A handful of milk-white ashes in a small
                    alabaster urn—the incombustible residuum of that carbonized body, making a
                    tangible memory to match the enduring thought; but of him, as he
                    was—nothing!
                I have stood by the graves of those I have loved most and honoured most; by the
                    graves of my own people, whose lives seemed to be part of my own, so that
                        when they died it was as if some member of
                    my body had been detached and buried out of sight; by the graves of great men
                    whose work has changed the current of human thought, enlarged the boundaries of
                    knowledge, and whose influence will live so long as the race endures: but I have
                    never felt that I was standing by more than that which had been and now was not.
                    Whether they had lived to the last of their powers, like Landor, or had done
                    their life's work nobly, like Darwin—whether they had declined like Garibaldi,
                    or had gone out in the morning of their promise like Clifford, like Balfour,
                    like Buckle—or, still earlier, in their mere dawn, like Arthur—they had gone.
                    Vixerunt:—they had lived. They had written their verses in the great poem of
                    human history and had added their volute to the carved capitals of the temple;
                    and then, the great ocean of night and the unknown had engulphed them; and we,
                    standing on the shore—so soon to follow
                    them!—know no more of them than we know of the foam blown off from the crest of
                    the wave by the wind.
                Yet with this vague sense—mark! I do not say conviction, for I know nothing—this
                    dumb dread of the absolute annihilation of the whole personality in one moment
                    of time, one supreme throe of dissolution, I preserve my loyalty to the dear
                    dead as part of my religion. They would not know if I were false to their love,
                    treacherous to my trust. They are dead and done with. No sorrowful eyes would
                    look at me through the darkness of the grave to reproach me with my falseness.
                    The things of life and men are nought to them, and time and space are words
                    which have no meaning for their closed ears. But, for the loyalty and love which
                    do not die, I could as little forget or betray them, dead, as I could were they
                    living to meet my inconstancy with scorn and my treachery with reproach.
                Is this faithfulness of love the original,
                    whereof belief in immortality is the enlarged transcript? For those nameless,
                    unknown units, those Gurths and Wambas and undesignated Roman slaves and Spartan
                    helots, we do not formulate an individual immortality. But for the child, the
                    father, the husband, the lover—for the mother who was our visible angel—for the
                    woman we loved, who died before satiety had slain that love—for these, and for
                    our friends, we create our place of departed souls, and house them there, still
                    living though unseen—loving and beloved as when we last pressed their hands in
                    ours, and last saw ourselves reflected in their eyes.
                Oh for one to rise indeed from the dead, and tell us the Great Secret which ends
                    all life! Oh! to be told the TRUTH, and to know if love
                    be final here and hope a mere phantasy of love—no more solid than the Spectre of
                    the Brocken—or if the instinct of that love has been truer than knowledge, and
                    has revealed what science cannot touch!
                
                The ghostly shapes of sorrow and despair crowd round us thick as summer corn.
                    Were we veritably assured that this life is indeed only the time of trial and
                    probation—transitory, preparatory, as they say—to how small a volume even its
                    greatest miseries would shrink! But deeper and lower than all creed, all faith,
                    lies the consciousness of loss, the sentiment of death; and the mother who does
                    not think twice of her darling out of sight among the flowers in the garden,
                    weeps night and day for the death which yet she believes has carried her up to
                    God and His heaven, and landed her in the world of endless delight.
                Would that we could know! For if following after a phantom be a delusion—and
                    delusion is only madness; not seeing the light is blindness—and blindness is
                    mutilation. Between dread of believing a sham, and turning into the darkness of
                    the night when the day shines bright behind those closed shutters which we could
                    open, if we would, the mind gets racked and
                    riven. And the outside absolute to determine which is true, is yet to
                    find—though we all so painfully seek, and some of us so firmly believe that we
                    have taken secure and enduring hold!
            
            
            
                CHAPTER IX.
                TOO much pain had been crowded of late years into my life for even my
                    robust physique to bear. My strength had been over-strained, and the penalty had
                    to be paid sooner or later. After the death of this dearest child of my hope and
                    love I fell dangerously ill; the cause being a chill; and Mrs. Barry came daily
                    to look after me, as an uncertificated Sister of Mercy. My wife was away on a
                    lecturing tour in the North; and as we did not correspond when she was absent,
                    she did not know of my illness until it was over, else I am sure that she would
                    have done her duty to me as faithfully as to
                    any other. Thus it was that my dear dead boy's second mother came about me as my
                    caretaker; and it was then that I got to know her as she was.
                I scarcely know how to describe Felicia Barry. She was one of those women who,
                    close on fifty as they are, all men wish were under thirty and most forget that
                    they are not. She had never been supremely handsome, but must have always been
                    beautiful; and she was beautiful even now. She had retained the luxuriance of
                    her glossy brown hair, the brightness of her dark grey eyes, the graceful
                    outlines of her tall and generous figure, the delicacy of her well-shaped hands
                    and the sensitiveness of her skin. She blushed as easily as if she had been
                    sixteen; and she was one of those rare Englishwomen whose faces smile from lip
                    to brow, and whose eyes laugh with their mouth. She had the charm of two ages
                    and seemed to be of neither. With the fresh enthusiasm of a girl she united the patience and knowledge, the tender
                    sympathies and generous maternity, of a woman. Men loved her with passion, and
                    little children went willingly into her arms, as if she had been a new mother,
                    recognised before known. Young men and women made her their confidant and
                    trusted to her sympathy, not in vain. Even when they had confided to her what
                    was weak, or what was wrong, she helped them with her strength, her pity, her
                    purity, her resolve. Tender and beneficent as the gentle rain which falls alike
                    on the just and on the unjust, she knew no shrinking, no repulsion from those
                    who failed the higher law—save for the two crimes of treachery and cruelty. With
                    these she held no terms. For all the rest her pity overlapped repugnance.
                Wherever she went she gave sympathy and garnered love—kinswoman of the whole
                    human race as she was. Of all women ever known to me, she was the most many-sided and with the largest amount of
                    emotional vitality. She always reminded me of the Venus of Milo; and her
                    character harmonized with her form.
                Her life had been sorrowful enough in its acted history; but her philosophy
                    admitted of no closed tombs by the roadside where Love crouches in eternal
                    mourning; of no slow marchings to the sound of a funeral hymn up the endless
                    pathway of despair. While she lived, she used to say with me, she must conquer
                    her sorrow or it would conquer her. She could not exist in that dull Nifleheim
                    of melancholy where so many torpid souls find a weary kind of stagnant home; she
                    must be out in the full sunshine, blessing others, and in thus blessing,
                    blessed. She must love, if not in one form then in another—as wife or as mother,
                    as sister or as friend, as equal or as protectress; and sometimes—but very
                    rarely—as a willing and voluntary subordinate. Her life had been too 
                        inde-
                        independent
                     pendent, her character was too
                    strongly individual, her affections were too opulent and her activities were too
                    highly energized for this last phase to be either frequent or possible with her.
                    Even where she loved, she held her own; and, should her views chance to be at
                    cross-corners with those of the man for whom, however, she would have died if
                    need be, she kept true both to her principles and her love, and did not suffer
                    the one to eat into nor undermine the other. Where she gave with most lavish
                    prodigality, she always kept in reserve that inner citadel of conscience which
                    no one can yield up without the loss of honour.
                This is a doctrine unacceptable to men in general; for almost all believe, if
                    even they do not openly maintain, that a woman's love rightfully includes her
                    mental subjection; and that ‘she to God through him’ is in very truth the norm
                    of wholesome human life.
                
                When I first knew Mrs. Barry, she was free, for the first time since she had been
                    eighteen. She had been married at that age to a strange, unreal kind of man, who
                    must have been more like a learned gnome than an average human being. He was an
                    algebraic equation, not a man; a vitalized theorem, not a laughing, weeping,
                    living creature, with passions, pleasures, weaknesses and virtues like the rest.
                    He was not even personable, being tall, lean, dried up, even when he was young;
                    and his temper was as perverse as his person was unlovely. But he was
                    phenomenally learned; and his masterly intelligence won the girl's
                    imagination.
                Full of intellectual ardour and living in a home curiously arid and
                    unsympathetic, she believed that in Josiah Barry she had found one who would be
                    more than her guide, greater than her master—one who would be like some
                    archangel carrying her through the upper air into the highest and purest regions possible to human thought. For she was
                    inexperienced enough to imagine that the moral nature keeps even step with
                    intellectual perception, and that the man who most clearly discerns an ethical
                    law is sure to most faithfully translate it into daily action. She loved the
                    ideal man projected on the screen of her fancy—she fashioned the crystal out of
                    the earth; and she married Mr. Barry, believing that she was marrying the moral
                    best of which humanity is capable. She found instead that she had married a
                    magnificent intellectual synthesis; but something out of which all that is most
                    lovable, most valuable in living human nature has been taken.
                He married her for the strange pride which some have to be the public possessor
                    of a beautiful woman. He did not love her; and he did not give himself the
                    trouble of feigning what he did not feel. After he had married her, he did not
                    care to 
                        con-
                        continue
                     tinue to instruct her, as he had
                    done in the beginning of things—by which indeed the whole affair had come about.
                    He neither associated her with his studies nor directed her own; and the
                    interest which he had taken in the girl's improvement fell off into worse than
                    indifference for the wife's. It descended to contempt, set round with brutality.
                    When she asked his opinion on any purely literary matter, his better judgment on
                    a point of history say, or his help in a stiff bit of translation—he would tell
                    her to play with her doll, if he were simply contemptuous, or to leave him alone
                    and not talk of things she had not wit to understand, if he were more savage and
                    discourteous than usual. At no time did he care to please nor to gratify her.
                    And only when they were together in public did he treat her with courtesy or
                    show her such attentions as western civilization has accustomed women to expect
                    from the men with whom they are connected. And
                    then his courtesy was so excessive, his attentions were so exaggerated, that all
                    the natural truth and sincerity of the woman rebelled against the falsehood.
                Thus she put herself in the wrong with others by her want of response to that
                    which they looked on as the expression of faithful love, and which she felt to
                    be an insult as well as a pretence.
                They lived together for about six years; after which, by mutual consent, they
                    separated—he living in London, she at Richmond. She had a small income of her
                    own, just enough to keep her above actual want. What more she needed she worked
                    for; and her work was of such quality as soon gave her more than mere comfort.
                    When her father died she came in for her share of a fine property, by which her
                    comfort was lifted into affluence. And just before I knew her, her husband had
                    left the world he neither helped forward nor adorned, and the woman whom the law had made his prisoner on parole was
                    free, when it was too late to make use of her liberty.
                Mrs. Barry was to me the type of the Ideal Woman. She knew all the harmonies and
                    all the discords of human life, and in her own person she had touched many of
                    its deepest chords. She had suffered much, as must needs have been, but she had
                    enjoyed more; and she remembered her pleasures while she let her sorrows fade
                    away like ghosts in the dawn. Married as she had been at eighteen, and married
                    to a phantasm, not a reality—at twenty-four thrown on herself for guidance,
                    protection and support—young, beautiful, and what Americans would call alive and
                    magnetic—greatly loved and greatly censured—in her own nature one to whom love
                    was life and life was love—it can easily be imagined what she had suffered, what
                    she had been made to endure and forced to renounce. But she was ‘semper virent,’ because she was strong, hopeful and
                    unselfish. More than once she had lost the central treasure which had made her
                    life desirable, but she had never owned herself defeated. Again and again beaten
                    down like an Amazon to her knee, again and again she had risen up unconquered,
                    to renew the fight with sorrow and disappointment—with personal pain and social
                    peril.
                Through all her hard and heavy trials she had kept her power of loving, of
                    trusting, of sympathizing, of self-giving; and her great rich heart had never
                    been drained. Like Hera, who renewed her youth when she bathed in the fountain
                    of Canathus, Mrs. Barry renewed the spring-time of her mind and heart when she
                    bathed in the fountain of a new emotion—an unexhausted duty—a fresh study. She
                    lived only for knowledge and humanity—to learn, to do good, to give happiness.
                    While there was one unhappy person in the world to bring back to peace—one child to educate into a noble man or
                    worthy woman—one sorrow to soothe—one desolate heart to cheer—she used often to
                    say life would not have lost its charm for her. When she could no longer do
                    good, then let her die, but not till then. And if ever that day should come,
                    then she would indeed die, for then her work would be done. But she was far from
                    that time yet—rich, unexhausted as she was.
                It is impossible for me to say how much I admired this woman—this modern
                    Demeter—this great Mother of Sorrows and Harvester of Love. If she renewed her
                    own youth by loving, she renewed that of others by causing them to love. And
                    especially did she renew mine. She seemed to knit up in herself all the poetry
                    and vitality of my past life—to be a kind of microcosm, containing in her own
                    person the qualities which had been divided among others, and repeating the
                        experiences which had been scattered among
                    those others. My physical sense could not refuse to see that, marvellously
                    conserved as she was—beautiful as she still was—she yet was no longer absolutely
                    young. Fifty, however good, is always fifty. But to my mind, to my heart, she
                    was old no more than nature is old, than the sun is old to the fire-worshipper,
                    than Ceres was old to the Roman who laid corn before her altar as his father and
                    grandfather had done before him. What Ninon de l'Enclos was in a baser, Felicia
                    Barry was in a nobler sense; and the lines of their experience ran parallel—on
                    different planes.
                As my regret with Arthur was that he had not been my son, so my sorrow with Mrs.
                    Barry was that she had not been my sister, seeing that she could never have been
                    my wife. To have lived with her would have been to have lived in such
                    intellectual and emotional opulence as would have compensated me for all I had
                    lost. To have 
                        con-
                        contributed
                     tributed to her happiness would have
                    been the culmination of my own.
                Her own history might be told in a phrase. ‘He was impatient, and he would not
                    wait.’ Had he had self-control, it would certainly have been waiting for a whole
                    life-time—but the reward at the end? Would not that have repaid him? He thought
                    so now, when he sat by the hearth which gave him only the tie of a home with
                    none of its deeper harmonies nor sweeter sentiments. Loving Felicia, but
                    irritated and indignant at the obstacles between them, he suddenly flung off his
                    wiser love, his better constancy, and married a woman who had nothing but her
                    prettiness to recommend her. And marriage needs more than a pretty face to keep
                    it fresh and wholesome! Besides, his past career had not been one to fit him for
                    domestic life, save under exceptional conditions.
                Handsome, clever, reckless and restless, he had
                    lived a stormy life, and had plunged up to the hilt in personal adventures and
                    passionate emotions. He had been a great traveller and a famous sportsman; and,
                    what with shipwrecks, savages, lion hunts and rogue elephants, dusky loves and
                    crowned caprices, the note-book of his memory was pretty well filled, and not
                    much was left for him to learn. But his charm for women was the wonderful strain
                    of chivalrous tenderness and knightly loyalty which ran through a character
                    where strength bordered on brutality, and where the violence of the darker
                    passions made that gentler strain so much the more remarkable. He loved animals
                    and children, was a good comrade with men and a devoted admirer of women. He
                    never betrayed those who trusted him; and he had been trusted by more than the
                    world either knew or suspected.
                He had also had heavy losses and misfortunes; and this gave him the key to woman's love by the way of her sympathy.
                    Perhaps this had been the strongest link of all those which had bound him to
                    Mrs. Barry. Be that as it may, she had loved him, and he her; but the patience
                    which would have carried her triumphantly through a life-long trial failed him,
                    and he threw away the chance of that which would have been his recompense for
                    all time, had he had but enough courage and constancy of hope to have held
                    on.
                I knew what she suffered now, when the final snapping of the shadowy link between
                    her and her husband gave her useless freedom. My own experience was the key
                    which unlocked all problems of love and pain. If only he had waited! Fretting
                    under his self-imposed yoke; unable to respect, but having no cause to
                    repudiate, the light-minded little feather-head, who kept substantially straight
                    because she had not intensity enough to go wrong; offended in his pride and
                    dignity by the appearance of things, his wife
                    seeming to be ever on the verge of toppling over into the abyss on the dangerous
                    edge of which she danced; knowing what he had lost; loving Mrs. Barry now as
                    much as he had loved her in the beginning—he too was to be pitied; though
                    naturally I had not so much sympathy for him as for her, arbiter of his own
                    destiny as he had been—‘the careful pilot of his proper woe.’ But she knew how
                    to bear with the dignity of self-control the sorrow which no effort of the will,
                    no energy of action, could change into joy. Strong as she was to love, and
                    sensitive to suffering, she was yet stronger to resist the demoralization of
                    despair. And that light-minded, feeble-willed Helen has no better friend than
                    the woman whom her husband loves in sorrow and who loves him in silence—keeping
                    her faith to him deep in that centre of the heart which no time nor outward
                    circumstance touches, even with the lightest hand.
                
                To me too she is a friend. And with this I am bound to be content. But sometimes,
                    when I think of what might have been, I feel that smarting of the eyes which
                    follows on the aching of the heart; and then I have to bestir myself and press
                    back into the depths thoughts which only weaken and unman myself and do no good
                    to anyone. Patience, hope, courage and the resolve never to be beaten and always
                    to press forward—these are better than regrets. If we cannot have the noonday
                    sun, is it wise to disdain the moonlight? Direct splendour the one, reflected
                    glory the other; but is not that reflection better than the dead darkness of the
                    sky where hang only clouds that drop down rain? For the noontide sun of love I
                    am given only the pale beauty of the moon. So let it be. To my litany of
                    thanksgiving I can add also this clause—gratitude for the simple friendship of
                    the woman whose love would have given me new life.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER X.
                DOES the character make or attract the dominant circumstances of life?
                    This is one of the problems I have never been able to answer. Yet it is
                    specially interesting to myself, seeing that I have been in the wash of certain
                    results, into which I was not conscious of plunging so much as of being
                    overtaken by; as Orestes did not go to meet the Furies—they followed after
                    him.
                I have made, or attracted to myself, as the dominant circumstances of my
                    life—Loneliness and Loss. Most of my moral investments have failed, and I have
                    heaped up more fairy gold than substantial treasure. This experience, so uniform in its working—must
                    surely be due to some mental quality; as a man who takes all the epidemics
                    afloat takes them because of some physical condition. Does constancy of
                    circumstance spring from some personal fault, or is it the result of some
                    uncatalogued law of attraction, which is to the moral life what facility for
                    taking disease is to the physical? Is the silver spoon an airy fact, and luck
                    more than the gambler's superstition? Yet how can one act differently from the
                    law laid down by our moral condition? Let me go over those cross-lines which
                    deface the smooth surface of a picture—give a list of various unfortunate
                    investments whereby a man stands to lose all round.
                With independence of judgment and inability to follow any leader, sheep-like, a
                    man loses the support of every party, and may be attacked with most virulence by
                    the very journals for which he himself has worked.
                
                With a passionate temperament, yet by principle striving after the moralities of
                    patience and forbearance, he suffers wrong up to a certain point, and suffers so
                    quietly that he gets to be looked on as uninflammable as a block of ice and with
                    no more resisting power than a flock of wool. When suddenly the whole thing
                    blazes and breaks asunder, and long-suffering and patience go by the board, like
                    hen-coops in a storm. In which case his reprisals are resented as
                    aggressions.
                In politics a democrat, by birth a Brahmin of the Brahmins, he suffers real pain
                    when brought into contact with the jagged edges of his rough diamonds. Yet,
                    being loyal, he sticks by his chosen friends of the third region; and those of
                    his inheritance despise him for his taste.
                If a freethinker, all of whose early associations are in the camp of the
                    orthodox, he has to submit to the condemnation of those he loves best—they
                    believing that faith is a matter of the will,
                    and that unbelief is as much a voluntary crime as murder or burglary.
                Loving peace in private life, but a hard hitter for 
                        conscience's
                        conscience'
                     sake, he offends those whom personally he loves and privately
                    respects, because called on to denounce their public work.
                If largely vitalized, his moral atmosphere has a certain quality of exaggeration
                    which makes that people read into him and his words meanings other than his own,
                    and give his grip a power he neither intended nor put out when he laid hold.
                Having the courage of his convictions, and ready if need be to stand in the
                    pillory for his flag, but as sensitive as a girl underneath his controversial
                    armour, he suffers acutely when the lash falls; and though he makes no cry is
                    tortured as severely as his worst enemies would desire.
                Cultivating trust in goodness as a counterpoise to that arid suspiciousness
                        which springs from knowledge of the world,
                    he is for ever falling among thieves; and as he would rather suffer loss than
                    protect himself by sharp practice, he has the satisfaction of keeping his
                    integrity at the expense of his worldly substance.
                By nature constant, by the circumstances of his life unanchored, and by
                    temperament unable to live on memories and dreams, he is always hoping afresh,
                    to be disappointed anew; and true love of a vital kind is the mirage ever before
                    him and never attained.
                Such a man is on all sides a kind of Mohammed's coffin, firmly attached to
                    nothing.
                And I ask again the question I have never been able to answer: Does character
                    make or attract the dominant circumstances of the life? Is conduct indeed fate,
                    in any other sense than that in which the form of a crystal is determined by its
                    own law?
                
                My own law of life has been, as I have said, that of loneliness and loss. This
                    last is especially true of my deepest hopes and strongest affections. My
                    friendships, on the other hand—friendships pure and simple—flourish when those
                    others have withered and faded into nothingness. Without those friendships, I
                    should be wrecked without redemption. With them, I can bear the intrinsic
                    isolation of my life with the same feeling as I have when I warm my hands by
                    another's fire. But friendship is not love; and another's fire is not my
                    own.
                For all that, I have still a life to lead, and ulterior possibilities to
                    attain.
                Old, grey-headed, alone—my passions tamed, my energy subdued, my hope dead, my
                    love futile—I sit in the darkening twilight and think over the problem of
                    existence and what it has taught me. So far, all my sorrows and disappointments
                    have been of this good to me: They have broken
                    down the masterful passion of my temperament and crushed out of me the
                    egotistical desire of personal happiness with which I began my career. Life has
                    shown me that this personal happiness comes to us in fullest quantity when we
                    give most and ask least; and that in the pain of renunciation itself is the
                    consolation which is born of strength. It is only the weak who demand; the
                    strong give—and in that giving shape for themselves the diadem which others ask
                    from a beneficent fate and a generous fortune.
                No age is too old for this outflowing of love. When the day is spent and the sun
                    has gone down, the lustreless earth radiates its stored energy of heat into the
                    night. And the old, who need care, can return gratitude, and while they accept
                    consideration can bestow sympathy. I, who say this, say it with full knowledge
                    of all that my words imply. I, who advocate the generous gift of love and the
                    patient 
                        ten-
                        tenderness
                     derness of altruism, speak from the
                    door of no full storehouse, but rather from among the ruins of an empty and
                    dismantled home. I do not, like some wealthy man married to the woman he loves
                    and the father of children he adores, preach content with poverty and ascetic
                    self-suppression to the poor wretch shivering and starving in the streets—to the
                    heart-broken lover burning in the fever of despair on the other side of that
                    impassable gulf. The catalogue of my possessions holds very little from which to
                    gather joy or on which to found content. And yet I have both.
                I stand absolutely alone, both spiritually and personally; with only my belief in
                    the better future of humanity as a fixed point of faith, and only my desire to
                    help on that better future as a stimulus to endeavour. I have no fulfilled hope;
                    no realized ambition; no steadfast love to make life glad and the grey days
                    golden; and death brings with it no certainty of amends, but only the vague possibilities of the great Perhaps. Those
                    whom I have most loved have most sorrowed me; what sacrifices I have made for
                    the good of others have been rendered barren and abortive; my faith given to man
                    has been again and again betrayed. The humanity, in the love of which I live,
                    neither recognises my devotion nor knows of me as I am; and my hold on the
                    present is as unsubstantial as was my hope in the past. I have no resting-place
                    on earth and no surety of a home in heaven; and belief in the Divine Providence
                    of God, which makes others resigned to their fate, has fallen from me, like the
                    glorious dreams of my youth.
                Nevertheless, I am neither broken nor unhappy. While there is a sunset to look at
                    or a sunrise to watch for; human sorrow to be soothed and human virtue to be
                    loved; knowledge to be gained; a new fact in science to be learned; a noble
                    picture to see; stately music to hear—while the great work of man's moral progress has to be continued and
                    nature has still her secrets to be won—enough is left to make life worth living
                    and energy worth preserving.
                I repeat the words I have used once before, because the feeling repeats itself
                    through the circumstance: Of what moment is individual happiness or misery,
                    compared with the sum of the general content or loss? The individual is nothing;
                    the Great Man is all. The present is the smallest of our possessions; in the
                    future lie the unmeasured potentialities. And I find in this altruistic
                    philosophy, as well as in the confession of an absolute, immovable, and
                    impersonal Law, as much help as the pious find in resignation to the Will of
                    God. In each it is the annihilation of self. Thus, though the day is almost over
                    for myself, and all personal fruitfulness of aspiration has become an
                    impossibility—though my past has been a failure, my love a regret, my hope an
                    illusion—I am young, because I live in the
                    race which renews its youth with every day that dawns; and I am not
                    disillusioned, because I love the virtues which never fail in the mass.
                As I draw nearer and ever nearer to the moment when I shall be resolved into the
                    Great Whole, and passion, which gives to youth its sense of reality, loosens its
                    grip as vitality wanes in volume, I recognise ever more clearly the shifting,
                    phantasmagoric and subjective character of life—and how that nothing is
                    intrinsic nor essential, but all is conditional and accidental. Yet lying at the
                    solid core within this changing world of phantasms is one truth as strong as a
                    triple wall of brass—the great truth of moral evolution whence springs the
                    doctrine of Duty.
                Had I to write an ethical testament, it would be to lay on the heirs of my
                    thought repudiation of the indolence of pessimism, of the sterility of egotism,
                    of the fossilization of theology ‘that bastard
                    daughter of science and religion.’ I would urge them to measure the distance
                    already traversed between the highest thinker and the lowest savage, and I would
                    ask them: Where, with that long stride from the past, are the limits of the
                    future to be set? I would substitute the good of others for endeavours after
                    individual salvation; and for belief in a special Providence, guarding some and
                    abandoning the rest, the impartiality of Law, which knows nothing beyond itself.
                    For the concentration of thought and energy on the elucidation of unprovable
                    dogmas, I would urge the active amelioration of physical evils; for theological
                    finality, that vitalizing faith in indefinite expansion which makes all things
                    possible. For human insulation I would show the homogeneity of all nature, where
                    man is the brain, truly, of the world, but not outside the ring-fence, nor
                    differing, save in degree and orderly development, from the rest. For the
                    confession of abject 
                        sinful-
                        sinfulness
                     ness I would teach a virile
                    self-respect; for humility, magnanimity; for revelations, each differing from
                    the other, the manly modesty of Agnosticism which knows nothing save the
                    obligation of active well-doing; for imaginative hierarchies, the living truths
                    of science; for the hope of Divine Blessing as the mainspring of endeavour, the
                    practice of altruistic Duty as the absolute law of moral life; for the heaven
                    that lies Beyond, doing the best we can with the things of time and space; and
                    for an eternity passed in the companionship of saints and angels, cherubim and
                    seraphim, the development of the living human being to the highest point of
                    perfectibility of which he is capable.
                THE END.
                BILLING AND SONS, PRINTER, GUILDFORD. G., C. & Co.
            
        
    
