
     ----CITATION----
        Schreiner, Olive (1855-1920). Dream Life and Real Life. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 52 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (10-September-1998).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7053
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    RALPH IRON
                
                
                    DREAM LIFE AND REAL LIFE
                    A LITTLE AFRICAN STORY
                
                BY THE AUTHOR OF “DREAMS,” “THE STORY OF AN AFRICAN FARM,”
                    &c.
                
                    LONDON 
                    T. FISHER UNWIN
                        PATERNOSTER SQUARE
                
                M DCCC XCIII
            
            
            
                DEDICATION
                TO MY BROTHER FRED, FOR WHOSE SCHOOL MAGAZINE THE FIRST OF THESE LITTLE
                    STORIES—ONE OF THE FIRST I EVER MADE—WAS WRITTEN OUT MANY LONG YEARS AGO.
                
                    R.I.
                    NEW COLLEGE, EASTBOURNE. Sept. 29th, 1893.
                
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                    1. DREAM LIFE AND REAL LIFE; A LITTLE AFRICAN STORY 13
                    2. THE WOMAN'S ROSE 51
                    3. THE POLICY IN FAVOUR OF PROTECTION —” 67
                
            
        
        
            
            
                DREAM LIFE AND REAL LIFE.
                
                DREAM LIFE AND REAL LIFE; A LITTLE AFRICAN STORY.
                LITTLE Jannita sat alone beside a milk-bush. Before her and behind her
                    stretched the plain, covered with red sand and thorny “Karroo” bushes; and here
                    and there a milk-bush, looking like a bundle of pale green rods tied together.
                    Not a tree was to be seen anywhere, except on the banks of the river, and that was far away, and the sun beat on her
                    head. Round her fed the Angora goats she was herding; pretty things, especially
                    the little ones, with white silky curls that touched the ground. But Jannita sat
                    crying. If an angel should gather up in his cup all the tears that have been
                    shed, I think the bitterest would be those of children.
                By and by she was so tired, and the sun was so hot, she laid her head against the
                    milk-bush, and dropped asleep.
                She dreamed a beautiful dream. She thought that when she went back to the farmhouse in the evening, the walls were
                    covered with vines and roses, and the “kraals” (sheepfolds) were
                    not made of red stone, but of lilac trees full of blossom. And the fat old Boer
                    smiled at her, and the stick he held across the door for the goats to jump over,
                    was a lily rod with seven blossoms at the end. When she went to the house her
                    mistress gave her a whole roaster-cake for her supper, and the mistress's
                    daughter had stuck a rose in the cake; and her mistress's son-in-law said,
                    “Thank you!” when she pulled off his boots, and did not kick her.
                
                It was a beautiful dream.
                While she lay thus dreaming, one of the little kids came and licked her on her
                    cheek, because of the salt from her dried-up tears. And in her dream she was not
                    a poor indentured child any more, living with Boers. It was her father who
                    kissed her. He said he had only been asleep--that day when he lay down under the
                    thorn-bush; he had not really died. He felt her hair, and said it was grown long
                    and silky, and he said they would go back to Denmark now. He asked her why her
                    feet were bare, and what the marks on her back were. Then he put her head on his shoulder, and picked her up, and
                    carried her away, away! She laughed--she could feel her face against his brown
                    beard. His arms were so strong.
                As she lay there dreaming, with the ants running over her naked feet, and with
                    her brown curls lying in the sand, a Hottentot came up to her. He was dressed in
                    ragged yellow trousers, and a dirty shirt, and torn jacket. He had a red
                    handkerchief round his head, and a felt hat above that. His nose was flat, his
                    eyes like slits, and the wool on his head was gathered into little round balls.
                    He came to the milk-bush, and looked at the
                    little girl lying in the hot sun. Then he walked off, and caught one of the
                    fattest little Angora goats, and held its mouth fast, as he stuck it under his
                    arm. He looked back to see that she was still sleeping, and jumped down into one
                    of the “sluits.” (The deep fissures, generally dry, in which the
                        superfluous torrents of water are carried from the “Karroo” plains after
                        thunderstorms.) He walked down the bed of the “sluit” a little way
                    and came to an overhanging bank, under which, sitting on the red sand, were two
                    men. One was a tiny, ragged, old bushman, four feet high; the other was an English navvy, in a dark blue blouse.
                    They cut the kid's throat with the navvy's long knife, and covered up the blood
                    with sand, and buried the entrails and skin. Then they talked, and quarrelled a
                    little; and then they talked quietly again.
                The Hottentot man put a leg of the kid under his coat and left the rest of the
                    meat for the two in the “sluit,” and walked away.
                When little Jannita awoke it was almost sunset. She sat up very frightened, but
                    her goats were all about her. She began to drive them home. “I do not think there are any lost,” she said.
                Dirk, the Hottentot, had brought his flock home already, and stood at the “kraal”
                    door with his ragged yellow trousers. The fat old Boer put his stick across the
                    door, and let Jannita's goats jump over, one by one. He counted them. When the
                    last jumped over: “Have you been to sleep today?” he said; “there is one
                    missing.”
                Then little Jannita knew what was coming, and she said, in a low voice, “No.” And
                    then she felt in her heart that deadly sickness that you feel when you tell a
                    lie; and again she said, “Yes.”
                
                “Do you think you will have any supper this evening?” said the Boer.
                “No,” said Jannita.
                “What do you think you will have?”
                “I don't know,” said Jannita.
                “Give me your whip,” said the Boer to Dirk, the Hottentot.
                
                The moon was all but full that night. Oh, but its light was beautiful!
                The little girl crept to the door of the outhouse where she slept, and looked at
                    it. When you are hungry, and very, very sore, you do not cry. She leaned her
                    chin on one hand, and looked, with her great
                    dove's eyes--the other hand was cut open, so she wrapped it in her pinafore. She
                    looked across the plain at the sand and the low karroo-bushes, with the
                    moonlight on them.
                Presently, there came slowly, from far away, a wild spring-buck. It came close to
                    the house, and stood looking at it in wonder, while the moonlight glinted on its
                    horns, and in its great eyes. It stood wondering at the red brick walls, and the
                    girl watched it. Then, suddenly, as if it scorned it all, it curved its
                    beautiful back and turned; and away it fled over the bushes and sand, like a sheeny streak of white lightning. She stood up to
                    watch it. So free, so free! Away, away! She watched, till she could see it no
                    more on the wide plain.
                Her heart swelled, larger, larger, larger: she uttered a low cry; and without
                    waiting, pausing, thinking, she followed on its track. Away, away, away! “I--I
                    also!” she said, “I--I also!”
                When at last her legs began to tremble under her, and she stopped to breathe, the
                    house was a speck behind her. She dropped on the earth, and held her panting
                    sides.
                
                She began to think now.
                If she stayed on the plain they would trace her footsteps in the morning and
                    catch her; but if she waded in the water in the bed of the river they would not
                    be able to find her footmarks; and she would hide, there where the rocks and the
                    “kopjes” were.
                
                    (“Kopjes,” in the karroo, are hillocks of stone, that rise up singly or
                        in clusters, here and there; presenting sometimes the fantastic appearance
                        of old ruined castles or giant graves, the work of human hands.)
                
                So she stood up and walked towards the river. The water in the river was low;
                    just a line of silver in the broad bed of sand,
                    here and there broadening into a pool. She stepped into it, and bathed her feet
                    in the delicious cold water. Up and up the stream she walked, where it rattled
                    over the pebbles, and past where the farmhouse lay; and where the rocks were
                    large she leaped from one to the other. The night wind in her face made her
                    strong--she laughed. She had never felt such night wind before. So the night
                    smells to the wild bucks, because they are free! A free thing feels as a chained
                    thing never can.
                At last she came to a place where the willows
                    grew on each side of the river, and trailed their long branches on the sandy
                    bed. She could not tell why, she could not tell the reason, but a feeling of
                    fear came over her.
                On the left bank rose a chain of “kopjes” and a precipice of rocks. Between the
                    precipice and the river bank there was a narrow path covered by the fragments of
                    fallen rock. And upon the summit of the precipice a kippersol tree grew, whose
                    palm-like leaves were clearly cut out against the night sky. The rocks cast a
                    deep shadow, and the willow trees, on either
                    side of the river. She paused, looked up and about her, and then ran on,
                    fearful.
                “What was I afraid of? How foolish I have been!” she said, when she came to a
                    place where the trees were not so close together. And she stood still and looked
                    back and shivered.
                At last her steps grew wearier and wearier. She was very sleepy now, she could
                    scarcely lift her feet. She stepped out of the river-bed. She only saw that the
                    rocks about her were wild, as though many little “kopjes” had been broken up and
                    strewn upon the ground, lay down at the foot of
                    an aloe, and fell asleep.
                
                But, in the morning, she saw what a glorious place it was. The rocks were piled
                    on one another, and tossed this way and that. Prickly pears grew among them, and
                    there were no less than six kippersol trees scattered here and there among the
                    broken “kopjes.” In the rocks there were hundreds of homes for the coneys, and
                    from the crevices wild asparagus hung down. She ran to the river, bathed in the
                    clear cold water, and tossed it over her head. She sang aloud. All the songs she knew were sad, so she
                    could not sing them now, she was glad, she was so free; but she sang the notes
                    without the words, as the cock-o-veets do. Singing and jumping all the way, she
                    went back, and took a sharp stone, and cut at the root of a kippersol, and got
                    out a large piece, as long as her arm, and sat to chew it. Two coneys came out
                    on the rock above her head and peeped at her. She held them out a piece, but
                    they did not want it, and ran away.
                It was very delicious to her. Kippersol is like raw quince, when it is very green; but she liked it. When
                    good food is thrown at you by other people, strange to say, it is very bitter;
                    but whatever you find yourself is sweet!
                When she had finished she dug out another piece, and went to look for a pantry to
                    put it in. At the top of a heap of rocks up which she clambered she found that
                    some large stones stood apart but met at the top, making a room.
                “Oh, this is my little home!” she said.
                At the top and all round it was closed, only in the front it was open. There was a beautiful shelf in the wall for the
                    kippersol, and she scrambled down again. She brought a great branch of prickly
                    pear, and stuck it in a crevice before the door, and hung wild asparagus over
                    it, till it looked as though it grew there. No one could see that there was a
                    room there, for she left only a tiny opening, and hung a branch of feathery
                    asparagus over it. Then she crept in to see how it looked. There was a glorious
                    soft green light. Then she went out and picked some of those purple little
                    ground flowers--you know them--those that keep their faces close to the ground, but when you turn them up and
                    look at them they are deep blue eyes looking into yours! She took them with a
                    little earth, and put them in the crevices between the rocks; and so the room
                    was quite furnished. Afterwards she went down to the river and brought her arms
                    full of willow, and made a lovely bed; and, because the weather was very hot,
                    she lay down to rest upon it.
                She went to sleep soon, and slept long, for she was very weak. Late in the
                    afternoon she was awakened by a few cold drops falling on her face. She sat up.
                        A great and fierce thunderstorm had been
                    raging, and a few of the cool drops had fallen through the crevice in the rocks.
                    She pushed the asparagus branch aside, and looked out, with her little hands
                    folded about her knees. She heard the thunder rolling, and saw the red torrents
                    rush among the stones on their way to the river. She heard the roar of the river
                    as it now rolled, angry and red, bearing away stumps and trees on its muddy
                    water. She listened and smiled, and pressed closer to the rock that took care of
                    her. She pressed the palm of her hand against it. When you have no one to love you, you love the dumb things very
                    much. When the sun set, it cleared up. Then the little girl ate some kippersol,
                    and lay down again to sleep. She thought there was nothing so nice as to sleep.
                    When one has had no food but kippersol juice for two days, one doesn't feel
                    strong.
                “It is so nice here,” she thought as she went to sleep, “I will stay here
                    always.”
                Afterwards the moon rose. The sky was very clear now, there was not a cloud
                    anywhere; and the moon shone in through the bushes in the door, and made a
                    lattice-work of light on her face. She was
                    dreaming a beautiful dream. The loveliest dreams of all are dreamed when you are
                    hungry. She thought she was walking in a beautiful place, holding her father's
                    hand, and they both had crowns on their heads, crowns of wild asparagus. The
                    people whom they passed smiled and kissed her; some gave her flowers, and some
                    gave her food, and the sunlight was everywhere. She dreamed the same dream over
                    and over, and it grew more and more beautiful; till, suddenly, it seemed as
                    though she were standing quite alone. She looked up: on one side of her was
                        the high precipice, on the other was the
                    river, with the willow trees, drooping their branches into the water; and the
                    moonlight was over all. Up, against the night sky the pointed leaves of the
                    kippersol trees were clearly marked, and the rocks and the willow trees cast
                    dark shadows.
                In her sleep she shivered, and half awoke.
                “Ah, I am not there, I am here,” she said; and she crept closer to the rock, and
                    kissed it, and went to sleep again.
                It must have been about three o'clock, for the moon had begun to sink towards the western sky, when she woke, with a violent
                    start. She sat up, and pressed her hand against her heart.
                “What can it be? A coney must surely have run across my feet and frightened me!”
                    she said, and she turned to lie down again; but soon she sat up. Outside, there
                    was the distinct sound of thorns crackling in a fire.
                She crept to the door and made an opening in the branches with her fingers.
                A large fire was blazing in the shadow, at the foot of the rocks. A little
                    Bushman sat over some burning coals that had been raked from it, cooking meat. Stretched on the ground was an
                    Englishman, dressed in a blouse, and with a heavy, sullen face. On the stone
                    beside him was Dirk, the Hottentot, sharpening a bowie knife.
                She held her breath. Not a coney in all the rocks was so still.
                “They can never find me here,” she said; and she knelt, and listened to every
                    word they said. She could hear it all.
                “You may have all the money,” said the Bushman; “but I want the cask of brandy. I
                    will set the roof alight in six places, for a
                    Dutchman burnt my mother once alive in a hut, with three children.”
                “You are sure there is no one else on the farm?” said the navvy.
                “No, I have told you till I am tired,” said Dirk; “the two Kaffirs have gone with
                    the son to town; and the maids have gone to a dance; there is only the old man
                    and the two women left.”
                “But suppose,” said the navvy, “he should have the gun at his bedside, and
                    loaded!”
                “He never has,” said Dirk; “it hangs in the passage, and the cartridges too. He
                    never thought when he bought it what work it
                    was for! I only wish the little white girl was there still,” said Dirk; “but she
                    is drowned. We traced her footmarks to the great pool that has no bottom.”
                She listened to every word, and they talked on.
                Afterwards, the little Bushman, who crouched over the fire, sat up suddenly,
                    listening.
                “Ha! what is that?” he said.
                A Bushman is like a dog: his ear is so fine he knows a jackal's tread from a wild
                    dog's.
                “I heard nothing,” said the navvy.
                
                “I heard,” said the Hottentot; “but it was only a coney on the rocks.”
                “No coney, no coney,” said the Bushman; “see, what is that there moving in the
                    shade round the point?”
                “Nothing, you idiot!” said the navvy. “Finish your meat; we must start now.”
                There were two roads to the homestead. One went along the open plain, and was by
                    far the shortest; but you might be seen half a mile off. The other ran along the
                    river bank, where there were rocks, and holes, and willow-trees to hide among.
                    And all down the river bank ran a little figure.
                
                The river was swollen by the storm full to its banks, and the willow trees dipped
                    their half-drowned branches into its water. Wherever there was a gap between
                    them, you could see it flow, red and muddy, with the stumps upon it. But the
                    little figure ran on and on; never looking, never thinking; panting, panting!
                    There, where the rocks were the thickest; there, where on the open space the
                    moonlight shone; there, where the prickly pears were tangled, and the rocks cast
                    shadows, on it ran; the little hands clinched, the little heart beating, the
                    eyes fixed always ahead.
                
                It was not far to run now. Only the narrow path between the high rocks and the
                    river.
                At last she came to the end of it, and stood for an instant. Before her lay the
                    plain, and the red farm-house, so near, that if persons had been walking there
                    you might have seen them in the moonlight. She clasped her hands. “Yes, I will
                    tell them, I will tell them!” she said; “I am almost there!” She ran forward
                    again, then hesitated. She shaded her eyes from the moonlight, and looked.
                    Between her and the farm-house there were three figures moving over the low
                    bushes.
                
                In the sheeny moonlight you could see how they moved on, slowly and furtively;
                    the short one, and the one in light clothes, and the one in dark.
                “I cannot help them now!” she cried, and sank down on the ground, with her little
                    hands clasped before her.
                
                “Awake, awake!” said the farmer's wife; “I hear a strange noise; something
                    calling, calling, calling!”
                The man rose, and went to the window.
                “I hear it also,” he said; “surely some jackal's at the sheep. I will load my gun
                    and go and see.”
                
                “It sounds to me like the cry of no jackal,” said the woman; and when he was gone
                    she woke her daughter.
                “Come, let us go and make a fire, I can sleep no more,” she said; “I have heard a
                    strange thing tonight. Your father said it was a jackal's cry, but no jackal
                    cries so. It was a child's voice, and it cried, ‘Master, master, wake!’”
                The women looked at each other; then they went to the kitchen, and made a great
                    fire; and they sang psalms all the while.
                At last the man came back; and they asked him, “What have you seen?” “Nothing,” he said, “but the sheep asleep in their
                    kraals, and the moonlight on the walls. And yet, it did seem to me,” he added,
                    “that far away near the ‘krantz’ [precipice] by the river, I saw
                    three figures moving. And afterwards--it might have been fancy--I thought I
                    heard the cry again; but since that, all has been still there.”
                
                Next day a navvy had returned to the railway works.
                “Where have you been so long?” his comrades asked.
                “He keeps looking over his shoulder,” said one, “as though he thought he should see something there.”
                “When he drank his grog today,” said another, “he let it fall, and looked
                    round.”
                Next day, a small old Bushman, and a Hottentot, in ragged yellow trousers, were
                    at a wayside canteen. When the Bushman had had brandy, he began to tell how
                    something (he did not say whether it was man, woman, or child) had lifted up its
                    hands and cried for mercy; had kissed a white man's hands, and cried to him to
                    help it. Then the Hottentot took the Bushman by the throat, and dragged him
                    out.
                Next night, the moon rose up, and mounted the
                    quiet sky. She was full now, and looked in at the little home; at the purple
                    flowers stuck about the room, and the kippersol on the shelf. Her light fell on
                    the willow trees, and on the high rocks, and on a little new-made heap of earth
                    and round stones. Three men knew what was under it; and no one else ever
                    will.
                
                    Lily Kloof, South Africa.
                
            
            
            
                THE WOMAN'S ROSE
                
                THE WOMAN'S ROSE.
                I HAVE an old, brown carved box; the lid is broken and tied with a
                    string. In it I keep little squares of paper, with hair inside, and a little
                    picture which hung over my brother's bed when we were children, and other things
                    as small. I have in it a rose. Other women also have such boxes where they keep such trifles, but no one has my rose.
                When my eye is dim, and my heart grows faint, and my faith in woman flickers, and
                    her present is an agony to me, and her future a despair, the scent of that dead
                    rose, withered for twelve years, comes back to me. I know there will be spring;
                    as surely as the birds know it when they see above the snow two tiny, quivering
                    green leaves. Spring cannot fail us.
                There were other flowers in the box once; a bunch of white acacia flowers,
                    gathered by the strong hand of a man, as we passed down a village street on a sultry afternoon, when it had rained, and
                    the drops fell on us from the leaves of the acacia trees. The flowers were damp;
                    they made mildew marks on the paper I folded them in. After many years I threw
                    them away. There is nothing of them left in the box now, but a faint, strong
                    smell of dried acacia, that recalls that sultry summer afternoon; but the rose
                    is in the box still.
                It is many years ago now; I was a girl of fifteen, and I went to visit in a small
                    up-country town. It was young in those days, and two days' journey from the
                        nearest village; the population consisted
                    mainly of men. A few were married, and had their wives and children, but most
                    were single. There was only one young girl there when I came. She was about
                    seventeen, fair, and rather fully-fleshed; she had large dreamy blue eyes, and
                    wavy light hair; full, rather heavy lips, until she smiled; then her face broke
                    into dimples, and all her white teeth shone. The hotel-keeper may have had a
                    daughter, and the farmer in the outskirts had two, but we never saw them. She
                    reigned alone. All the men worshipped her. She
                    was the only woman they had to think of. They talked of her on the “stoep,” at
                    the market, at the hotel; they watched for her at street corners; they hated the
                    man she bowed to or walked with down the street. They brought flowers to the
                    front door; they offered her their horses; they begged her to marry them when
                    they dared. Partly, there was something noble and heroic in this devotion of men
                    to the best woman they knew; partly there was something natural in it, that
                    these men, shut off from the world, should pour at the feet of one woman the worship that otherwise would have been given
                    to twenty; and partly there was something mean in their envy of one another. If
                    she had raised her little finger, I suppose, she might have married any one out
                    of twenty of them.
                Then I came. I do not think I was prettier; I do not think I was so pretty as she
                    was. I was certainly not as handsome. But I was vital, and I was new, and she
                    was old--they all forsook her and followed me. They worshipped me. It was to my
                    door that the flowers came; it was I had twenty horses offered me when I could only ride one; it was for me they waited
                    at street corners; it was what I said and did that they talked of. Partly I
                    liked it. I had lived alone all my life; no one ever had told me I was beautiful
                    and a woman. I believed them. I did not know it was simply a fashion, which one
                    man had set and the rest followed unreasoningly. I liked them to ask me to marry
                    them, and to say, No. I despised them. The mother heart had not swelled in me
                    yet; I did not know all men were my children, as the large woman knows when her
                    heart is grown.
                
                I was too small to be tender. I liked my power. I was like a child with a new
                    whip, which it goes about cracking everywhere, not caring against what. I could
                    not wind it up and put it away. Men were curious creatures, who liked me, I
                    could never tell why. Only one thing took from my pleasure; I could not bear
                    that they had deserted her for me. I liked her great dreamy blue eyes, I liked
                    her slow walk and drawl; when I saw her sitting among men, she seemed to me much
                    too good to be among them; I would have given all their compliments if she
                        would once have smiled at me as she smiled
                    at them, with all her face breaking into radiance, with her dimples and flashing
                    teeth. But I knew it never could be; I felt sure she hated me; that she wished I
                    was dead; that she wished I had never come to the village. She did not know,
                    when we went out riding, and a man who had always ridden beside her came to ride
                    beside me, that I sent him away; that once when a man thought to win my favour
                    by ridiculing her slow drawl before me I turned on him so fiercely that he never
                    dared come before me again. I knew she knew
                    that at the hotel men had made a bet as to which was the prettier, she or I, and
                    had asked each man who came in, and that the one who had staked on me won. I
                    hated them for it, but I would not let her see that I cared about what she felt
                    towards me.
                She and I never spoke to each other.
                If we met in the village street we bowed and passed on; when we shook hands we
                    did so silently, and did not look at each other. But I thought she felt my
                    presence in a room just as I felt hers.
                At last the time for my going came. I was to
                    leave the next day. Some one I knew gave a party in my honour, to which all the
                    village was invited.
                It was midwinter; there was nothing in the gardens but a few dahlias and
                    chrysanthemums, and I suppose that for two hundred miles round there was not a
                    rose to be bought for love or money. Only in the garden of a friend of mine, in
                    a sunny corner between the oven and the brick wall, there was a rose tree
                    growing which had on it one bud. It was white, and it had been promised to the
                    fair haired girl to wear at the party.
                The evening came; when I arrived and went to the waiting-room, to take off my
                    mantle, I found the girl there already. She was dressed in pure white, with her
                    great white arms and shoulders showing, and her bright hair glittering in the
                    candle-light, and the white rose fastened at her breast. She looked like a
                    queen. I said “Good evening,” and turned away quickly to the glass to arrange my
                    old black scarf across my old black dress.
                Then I felt a hand touch my hair.
                “Stand still,” she said.
                I looked in the glass. She had taken the white
                    rose from her breast, and was fastening it in my hair.
                “How nice dark hair is; it sets off flowers so.” She stepped back and looked at
                    me. “It looks much better there!”
                I turned round.
                “You are so beautiful to me,” I said.
                “Y-e-s,” she said, with her slow Colonial drawl; “I'm so glad.”
                We stood looking at each other.
                Then they came in and swept us away to dance. All the evening we did not come
                    near to each other. Only once, as she passed,
                    she smiled at me.
                The next morning I left the town.
                I never saw her again.
                Years afterwards I heard she had married and gone to America; it may or may not
                    be so--but the rose--the rose is in the box still! When my faith in woman grows
                    dim, and it seems that for want of love and magnanimity she can play no part in
                    any future heaven; then the scent of that small withered thing comes
                    back:--spring cannot fail us.
                
                    Matjesfontein, South Africa.
                
            
            
            
                “THE POLICY IN FAVOUR OF PROTECTION —.”
                Was it Right?—Was it Wrong?
                
                “THE POLICY IN FAVOUR OF PROTECTION —.”
                Was it Right?—Was it Wrong?
                A WOMAN sat at her desk in the corner of a room; behind her a fire burnt
                    brightly.
                Presently a servant came in and gave her a card.
                “Say I am busy and can see no one now. I have to finish this article by two
                    o'clock.”
                The servant came back. The caller said she would only keep her a moment: it was necessary she should see her.
                The woman rose from her desk. “Tell the boy to wait. Ask the lady to come
                    in.”
                A young woman in a silk dress, with a cloak reaching to her feet, entered. She
                    was tall and slight, with fair hair.
                “I knew you would not mind. I wished to see you so!”
                The woman offered her a seat by the fire. “May I loosen your cloak?--the room is
                    warm.”
                “I wanted so to come and see you. You are the only person in the world who could
                    help me! I know you are so large, and generous,
                    and kind to other women!” She sat down. Tears stood in her large blue eyes: she
                    was pulling off her little gloves unconsciously.
                “You know Mr.--” (she mentioned the name of a well-known writer): “I know you
                    meet him often in your work. I want you to do something for me!”
                The woman on the hearth-rug looked down at her.
                “I couldn't tell my father or my mother, or any one else; but I can tell you,
                    though I know so little of you. You know, last summer he came and stayed with us
                    a month. I saw a great deal of him. I don't
                    know if he liked me; I know he liked my singing, and we rode together--I liked
                    him more than any man I have ever seen. Oh, you know it isn't true that a woman
                    can only like a man when he likes her; and I thought, perhaps, he liked me a
                    little. Since we have been in town we have asked, but he has never come to see
                    us. Perhaps people have been saying something to him about me. You know him, you
                    are always meeting him, couldn't you say or do anything for me?” She looked up
                    with her lips white and drawn. “I feel sometimes as if I were going mad! Oh, it is so terrible to be a woman!” The woman
                    looked down at her. “Now I hear he likes another woman. I don't know who she is,
                    but they say she is so clever, and writes. Oh, it is so terrible, I can't bear
                    it.”
                The woman leaned her elbow against the mantel-piece, and her face against her
                    hand. She looked down into the fire. Then she turned and looked at the younger
                    woman. “Yes,” she said, “it is a very terrible thing to be a woman.” She was
                    silent. She said with some 
                        diffi-
                        difficulty
                     culty: “Are you sure you love him!
                    Are you sure it is not only the feeling a young girl has for an older man who is
                    celebrated, and of whom every one is talking.”
                “I have been nearly mad. I haven't slept for weeks!” She knit her little hands
                    together, till the jewelled rings almost cut into the fingers. “He is everything
                    to me; there is nothing else in the world. You, who are so great, and strong,
                    and clever, and who care only for your work, and for men as your friends, you
                    cannot understand what it is when one person is everything to you, when there is nothing else in the world!”
                “And what do you want me to do?”
                “Oh, I don't know!” She looked up. “A woman knows what she can do. Don't tell him
                    that I love him.” She looked up again. “Just say something to him. Oh, it's so
                    terrible to be a woman; I can't do anything. You won't tell him exactly that I
                    love him? That's the thing that makes a man hate a woman, if you tell it him
                    plainly.”
                “If I speak to him I must speak openly. He is my friend. I cannot fence with him.
                    I have never fenced with him in my own
                    affairs.” She moved as though she were going away from the fireplace, then she
                    turned and said: “Have you thought of what love is between a man and a woman
                    when it means marriage? That long, long life together, day after day, stripped
                    of all romance and distance, living face to face: seeing each other as a man
                    sees his own soul? Do you realize that the end of marriage is to make the man
                    and woman stronger than they were; and that if you cannot, when you are an old
                    man and woman and sit by the fire, say, ‘Life has been a braver and a freer thing for us, because we passed it hand
                    in hand, than if we had passed through it alone,’ it has failed? Do you care for
                    him enough to live for him, not tomorrow, but when he is an old, faded man, and
                    you an old, faded woman? Can you forgive him his sins and his weaknesses, when
                    they hurt you most? If he were to lie a querulous invalid for twenty years,
                    would you be able to fold him in your arms all that time, and comfort him, as a
                    mother comforts her little child?” The woman drew her breath heavily.
                “Oh, I love him 
                        abso-
                        absolutely
                     lutely! I would be glad to die, if
                    only I could once know that he loved me better than anything in the world!”
                The woman stood looking down at her. “Have you never thought of that other woman;
                    whether she could not perhaps make his life as perfect as you?” she
                    asked, slowly.
                “Oh, no woman ever could be to him what I would be. I would live for him. He
                    belongs to me.” She bent herself forward, not crying, but her shoulders moving.
                    “It is such a terrible thing to be a woman, to be able to do nothing and say
                    nothing!”
                
                The woman put her hand on her shoulder; the younger woman looked up into her
                    face; then the elder turned away and stood looking into the fire. There was such
                    quiet, you could hear the clock tick above the writing-table.
                The woman said: “There is one thing I can do for you. I do not know if it will be
                    of any use--I will do it.” She turned away.
                “Oh, you are so great and good, so beautiful, so different from other women, who
                    are always thinking only of themselves! Thank you so much. I know I can trust
                    you. I couldn't have told my mother, or any one
                    but you.”
                “Now you must go; I have my work to finish.”
                The younger woman put her arms round her. “Oh, you are so good and
                    beautiful!”
                The silk dress and the fur cloak rustled out of the room.
                The woman who was left alone walked up and down, at last faster and faster, till
                    the drops stood on her forehead. After a time she went up to the table; there
                    was written illegibly in a man's hand on a fragment of manuscript paper: “Can
                        I come to see you this afternoon?” Near
                    it was a closed and addressed envelope. She opened it. In it were written the
                    words: “Yes, please, come.”
                She tore it across and wrote the words: “No, I shall not be at
                    liberty.”
                She closed them in an envelope and addressed them. Then she rolled up the
                    manuscript on the table and rang the bell. She gave it to the servant. “Tell the
                    boy to give this to his master, and say the article ends rather abruptly; they
                    must state it is to be continued; I will finish it tomorrow. As he passes No. 20
                    let him leave this note there.”
                The servant went out. She walked up and down with her hands folded above her
                    head.
                
                Two months after, the older woman stood before the fire. The door opened
                    suddenly, and the younger woman came in.
                “I had to come--I couldn't wait. You have heard, he was married this morning? Oh,
                    do you think it is true? Do help me!” She put out her hands.
                “Sit down. Yes, it is quite true.”
                “Oh, it is so terrible, and I didn't know anything! Did you ever say anything to him?” She caught the woman's hands.
                “I never saw him again after the day you were here,--so I could not speak to
                    him--but I did what I could.” She stood looking passively into the fire.
                “And they say she is quite a child, only eighteen. They say he only saw her three
                    times before he proposed to her. Do you think it is true?”
                “Yes, it is quite true.”
                “He can't love her. They say he's only marrying her for her rank and her
                    money.”
                The woman turned quickly.
                “What right have you to say that? No one but me
                    knows him. What need has he of any one's rank or wealth? He is greater than them
                    all! Older women may have failed him; he has needed to turn to her beautiful,
                    fresh, young life to compensate him. She is a woman whom any man might have
                    loved, so young and beautiful; her family are famed for their intellect. If he
                    trains her, she may make him a better wife than any other woman would have
                    done.”
                “Oh, but I can't bear it--I can't bear it!” The younger woman sat down in the
                    chair. “She will be his wife, and have his children.”
                
                “Yes.” The elder woman moved quickly. “One wants to have the child, and lay its
                    head on one's breast and feed it.” She moved quickly. “It would not matter if
                    another woman bore it, if one had it to take care of.” She moved restlessly.
                “Oh, no, I couldn't bear it to be hers. When I think of her I feel as if I were
                    dying; all my fingers turn cold; I feel dead. Oh, you were only his friend; you
                    don't know!”
                The older spoke softly and quickly, “Don't you feel a little gentle to her when
                    you think she's going to be his wife and the
                    mother of his child? I would like to put my arms round her and touch her once,
                    if she would let me. She is so beautiful, they say.”
                “Oh, I could never bear to see her; it would kill me. And they are so happy
                    together to-day! He is loving her so!”
                “Don't you want him to be happy?” The older woman looked down at her. “Have you
                        never loved him, at all?”
                The younger woman's face was covered with her hands. “Oh, it's so terrible, so
                    dark! and I shall go on living year after year, always in this awful pain! Oh, if I could only die!”
                The older woman stood looking into the fire; then slowly and measuredly she said,
                    “There are times, in life, when everything seems dark, when the brain reels, and
                    we cannot see that there is anything but death. But, if we wait long enough,
                    after long, long years, calm comes. It may be we cannot say it was well; but we
                    are contented, we accept the past. The struggle is ended. That day may come for
                    you, perhaps sooner than you think.” She spoke slowly, and with difficulty.
                “No, it can never come for me. If once I have
                    loved a thing, I love it for ever. I can never forget.”
                “Love is not the only end in life. There are other things to live for.”
                “Oh, yes, for you! To me love is everything!”
                “Now, you must go, dear.”
                The younger woman stood up. “It has been such a comfort to talk to you. I think I
                    should have killed myself if I had not come. You help me so. I shall always be
                    grateful to you.”
                The older woman took her hand.
                “I want to ask something of you.”
                “What is it?”
                
                “I cannot quite explain to you. You will not understand. But there are times when
                    something more terrible can come into a life than it should lose what it loves.
                    If you have had a dream of what life ought to be, and you try to make it real,
                    and you fail; and something you have killed out in your heart for long years
                    wakes up and cries, ‘Let each man play his own game, and care nothing for the
                    hand of his fellow! Each man for himself. So the game must be
                    played!’ and you doubt all you have lived for, and the ground seems washing out
                    under your feet--.” She paused. “Such a time
                    has come to me now. If you would promise me that if ever another woman comes to
                    seek your help, you will give it to her, and try to love her for my sake, I
                    think it will help me. I think I should be able to keep my faith.”
                “Oh, I will do anything you ask me to. You are so good and great.”
                “Oh, good and great!--if you knew! Now go, dear.”
                “I have not kept you from your work, have I?”
                “No; I have not been working lately. Good-by, dear.”
                The younger woman went; and the elder knelt down by the chair, and wailed like a little child when you
                    have struck it and it does not dare to cry loud.
                
                A year after; it was early spring again.
                The woman sat at her desk writing; behind her the fire burnt brightly. She was
                    writing a leading article on the causes which in differing peoples lead to the
                    adoption of Free Trade or Protectionist principles.
                The woman wrote on quickly. After a while the servant entered and laid a pile of
                    letters on the table. “Tell the boy I shall have done in fifteen minutes.”
                        She wrote on. Then she caught sight of the
                    writing on one of the letters. She put down her pen, and opened it. It ran
                    so:--
                “DEAR FRIEND,--I am writing to you, because I know you will rejoice to hear of my
                    great happiness. Do you remember how you told me that day by the fire to
                        wait, and after long, long years I should see that all was for
                    the best? That time has come sooner than we hoped. Last week in Rome I was
                    married to the best, noblest, most large-hearted of men. We are now in Florence
                    together. You don't know how beautiful all life is to me. I know now that the old passion was only a
                    girl's foolish dream. My husband is the first man I have ever truly loved. He
                    loves me and understands me as no other man ever could. I am thankful that my
                    dream was broken; God had better things in store for me. I don't hate that woman
                    any more; I love every one! How are you, dear? We shall come and see you as soon
                    as we arrive in England. I always think of you so happy in your great work and
                    helping other people. I don't think now it is terrible to be a
                    woman; it is lovely.
                “I hope you are enjoying this beautiful spring
                    weather.
                “Yours, always full of gratitude and love,
                “E--.”
                The woman read the letter: then she stood up and walked towards the fire. She did
                    not re-read it, but stood with it open in her hand, looking down into the blaze.
                    Her lips were drawn in at the corners. Presently she tore the letter up slowly,
                    and watched the bits floating down one by one into the grate. Then she went back
                    to her desk, and began to write, with her mouth still drawn in at the corners.
                    After a while she laid her arm on the paper and
                    her head on her arm, and seemed to go to sleep there.
                Presently the servant knocked; the boy was waiting. “Tell him to wait ten minutes
                    more.” She took up her pen--“The Policy of the Australian Colonies in favour of
                    Protection is easily understood--” she waited--“when one considers the fact--the
                    fact--”; then she finished the article.
                
                    Cape Town, South Africa, 1892.
                
            
            UNWIN BROTHERS, CHILWORTH AND LONDON.
        
    
