
     ----CITATION----
        Naden, Constance (1858-1889). The Complete Poetical Works of Constance Naden. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 474 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (August 19, 1996).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7115
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                
                    THE COMPLETE POETICAL WORKS OF CONSTANCE
                        NADEN.
                    WITH AN EXPLANATORY FORE?WORD BY ROBERT LEWINS,
                        M.D., Surgeon Lieut.?Colonel (Retired).
                
                
                    
                        
                            “We receive but what we give,
                            And in our life alone does Nature live;
                            Ours is her wedding garment, ours her shroud.”
                        
                        —S.T. Coleridge
                    
                
                
                    London:
                    Bickers & Son,
                    1, Leicester Square, W.C.
                
                1894.
            
            
            
                PUBLISHERS’ ANNOUNCEMENT.
                IN this Complete Edition of the Poems of Constance Naden it has been
                    deemed advisable that the two volumes, “Songs and Sonnets of Springtime” and “A
                    Modern Apostle; The Elixir of Life; The Story of Clarice, and other Poems,”
                    should appear in the order in which they were originally published. No attempt
                    at re?arrangement has been made. The only additions are “The Better World “
                    (which is printed on p. 172, immediately after the conclusion of what formed
                    Miss Naden’s first volume of poems) and three miscellaneous pieces, “Winter and
                    Spring,” “The Priest’s Warning,” and “ Night and Morning” (which are printed
                    last of all).
                Appended to the present volume will be found a selection of Personal and Press
                    Opinions on the Works of Constance Naden.
            
            
            
                Introduction
                
                    FOREWORD.
                    
                        
                            
                                 “See all in self, and but for self [as all inclusive] be
                                    born.”
                            
                            —Pope’s “Dunciad,” 4th Book.
                        
                    
                    I DO not think I can submit to contemporary readers and serious
                        students of common?sense philosophy a better précis of the principle underlying both Miss
                        Constance Naden’s verses and prose than by reproduction of the following
                        curt and concise exposition, which adequately expresses the scope and gist
                        both of her Poetry and Philosophy—the former in a more or less informal and
                        cryptic manner, the latter in a more formal and implicit one. The very
                        simplicity of the subject?matter is the principal obstacle to its
                        acceptance. It resolves all objects into the subject self, and thus deals
                        the coup de grâce to all Dualism
                        whatsoever. So that Anima, an
                        ambiguous misnomer, signifying both Life and Mind, or soul, is shown to be
                        the product, not the germ or source, of the Hyle or Matter—the Brain, by its
                        function, being the sole cause of consciousness, without which all is blank
                        nullity and nihility.
                
                
                
                    THE UNITY AND IDENTITY OF THOUGHT AND THING. *
                    
                        Nemo potest exuere seipsum.
                    
                    
                        “Philosophy tells us that the world is a picture which we ourselves make.
                            There is nothing in the world [including that object itself] which we do
                            not put there. Our whole life, then, is one creative process.”
                    
                    The above affirmation of Monism and denial of dual subject and object is
                        taken from T. Bailey Saunders’s, M.A. (Oxon.), profound article on “The
                        Origin of Reason,” in No. 160 of the Open Court*. It seems completely to bear out the
                        scientific veridity of my title, and of Hylo?Idealism, that on the
                        apparitional, phenomenal, or relative theory of the universe, to which we
                        have alone access, Self is to Self, further than which research is vain, the
                        Be?all and End?all of sentient and non?sentient existence. Hence religion is
                        seen to have run its baneful course, and to be superseded by reason, Reprinted (revised) from theMonist, of Chicago, for
                            January, 1894, edited by Dr. Paul Carus, Ph.D.
                        See also a lengthy and serious review of that able thinker’s
                            “Translations from Schopenhauer” in the London Athenæum for
                            October 4th, 1890. on which Mr.
                        Saunders so lucidly discourses. For, if Self be all?in all, there can be no
                        room, in such a pleroma, for any
                            Latria or worship, in the
                        religious sense of the word, except Narcissus?like self?worship.
                    We are thus thrown back on, and face to face with, mere physical conditions,
                        out of which ideal concepts proceed, while rigidly
                        excluding all those misnamed “spiritual” ones, which
                        hitherto have played so momentous a rôle in the destiny of humanity *. We thus make hygiene, as defined by Dr. Parkes in the solemn
                        introduction to his manual of that last (and first) of the sciences, as not
                        merely bodily sanitation, though that is already much, but as supreme
                        culture of mind and body (or, to be more scientifically precise, of body
                        merely, including brain), the all?sufficing surrogate of Divine worship. The
                        old adage, mens sana in corpore
                            sano, should thus read corpus
                            sanum = mens sana, merely. This Volte face turns every extant ethical and
                        mental view topsy?turvy. As it must do by exploding
                        “thing” altogether, and by substituting our own thoughts for objects of all
                        kinds. It is true, or it may be granted, that there is an objective or
                        distal aspect of subjective thought. But that fact, or
                        admission, in no degree in? It is significant and suggestive that
                            no terms have ever been coined to express animistic concepts. Even
                            Spirit, Soul, Lord, God, etc., are purely materialistic ones. validates the position that the only
                        objects cognisable are those incorporated with, and by, the subject self,
                        from which all “things” proceed. This interpretation of the universe is,
                            inter alia multa, that of the
                        emancipated Baccalaureus in the second part of Goethe’s “Faust,” as
                        enunciated in the lines thus translated by the late Constance Naden:—
                    
                        “I tell you this is Youth’s [Man’s] supreme vocation!
                        Before me was no world—’tis my creation:
                        ’Twas I who raised the Sun from out the sea;
                        The Moon began her changeful course with me.
                        I gave the signal on that primal night
                        When all the host of heaven burst forth in light.
                        Who but MYSELF saves Man from the dominion
                        Of dogmas cramping, crushing, Philistianian?”
                    
                    Indeed, it is the very first and last principle of common sense and common
                        place that, before a “thing” is perceptible, it must
                        be made sensible, and where can sensibility
                        (consciousness) lie except in the sensorium which manifests that property? On the ground alone
                        of consciousness or sensation being a somatic office or function it can only
                        be, like all other organic functions, an emanation of the self, and hence we
                        are coerced into the conclusion that all things are but forms of the Ego itself, at once both Creator and Creation.
                    This non?animism thus makes each unit of humanity all that has, in
                        pre?scientific minds where Absolutism  and
                        Dualism is the watchword of the intellect, been predicated as Divine. Where reason, based on positive science, comes into
                        play, or, in other words, when man ceases to be an infant, religion or
                        Theism disappears as a childish illusion utterly incompatible with right
                        reason and rational ethics. All religious ideals and systems— none more than
                        the Christian—are based on hideous immorality. For what can be more
                        iniquitous than the doctrine of the Atonement—
                            i.e.
                            id est
                        , of the vicarious sacrifice of a sinless victim for a sinful
                        criminal? But preceding this ethical crux is the
                        logical fiction. For how can the Parthenogenetic birth of Christ redeem him
                        from the primeval “curse” entailed on all mankind by the mythical
                        “disobedience” of our federal head and representative? From this “curse”
                        virgins are no more exempt than their grandmothers, and thus, on its own
                            data, Christianity is “hoist with its
                        own petard.” Indeed, a replica of Adam’s abiogenetic
                        “creation” would not serve, since earth and air partook of the “curse”
                        entailed on our “first parents.” No God is needed since man is seen to be an
                        Autochthon, and, as such, an Anteus, who derives all the faculties required
                        for existence out of the telluric matrix
                        or humus (living earth) from
                        which he sprang.
                    As long as the absolute doctrine of dual existence vitiated philosophy—a dual
                        factor, in the guise of an animating principle was, or seemed, a desideratum. But  since the inductive biological theory, which
                        defines life as the sum of the organic functions and a physiological state,
                        was established, man can quite rest content in the satisfactory creed that
                        he himself—each for each— is his own law, standard, criterion, and final court of appeal. Clericals of all denominations
                        are then seen to be self?evidently “kicking against the pricks,” when, in
                        our fin de siècle age, they
                        attempt to bolster up the obsolete anachronism of animism (Dualism)—a quite
                        impossible task, as I have before shown—from the incompatibility of two such
                        factors as matter, and what they are pleased to call “spirit,” re?acting on
                        each other.
                    It is, I repeat, a case of pure 
                            fetishism
                            fetichism
                         or ghostism—the same in essence that induced the ancients to
                        formulate their Lares and Penates, Dryads, etc., and, in short, to feign a
                        god, or goddess, for every phenomenon from Jove, launcher of the
                        thunderbolts, to Cloacina of the sewers!
                    Pope, even, in his “Essay on Man,” written many years after the appearance of
                        Newton’s “Principia,” could not rid himself of the notion that “ruling
                        angels” were required to regulate the spheres. And, long after Pope, poets
                        invoked their muse as a source of inspiration separate from themselves! But,
                        in our age, all such confusion of thought is a really inexcusable blunder,
                        which must, sooner or later, prove a Nemesis to that vicious civilisation
                        which fosters so palpable a delusion.
                        Assume, as now we must do, that all objects and ideas,
                        great and small, including the abstract terms, Time, Space, and Immortality,
                        etc., are Brain products, that Cerebration and Thought, or Mind, are one,
                        and the seemingly paradoxical Unity and Identity for which I plead in the
                        title of this exordium is seen to be a categoric imperative. It really is a
                        physiological version of Kant’s negation of Thing in
                            Itself, from which, how ever, he recanted in all his works
                        subsequent to the first edition of the “Critique of Pure Reason.” It was
                        rendered perfectly certain more than sixty years ago—a full lustre before
                        its present opponent, Mr. Gladstone, entered public life—by Wöhler, when he
                        artificially manufactured organic— 
                            i.e.
                            id est
                        , “living” out of inorganic—
                            i.e.
                            id est
                        , pseudo?dead, compounds; a perfect proof that a vital Principle or
                            Anima, in the sense of what is falsely
                        interpreted as “Soul,” in the religious sense of the Anglo?Saxon term for
                        Life, is a fiction of the human imagination. An omnipotent, disposing Deity
                        must be as much of a fetish as the Pantheon of Olympus. As is clearly seen
                        from so many of these dispositions being failures, as lunacy, suicide,
                        disease, premature death, and other multiform forms of Demoniac Evil.
                        Anti?theism, therefore, not merely Atheism, as in the eighteenth century,
                        ought to be the charter of our present state; the Latin motto at the head of
                        this Foreword being perfectly expugnable.
                    
                    Devout nations and communities—
                             i.e.
                            id est
                        , in which the public mind is addicted to religious exercises of
                        Prayer, Praise, and Spiritualism (other?worldism) generally, are always
                        tardigrade, and even retrograde. This rule is well exemplified in the
                        records of the Protestant Reformation. When Luther visited Rome, saturated
                        as he was with the diabolic and other superstitions of a Thuringian forest
                        coal?burner, he was filled with disgust at the Atheism then prevalent amid
                        the priesthood and cultured classes. The former openly scoffed at the
                        Christian mysteries as cochonerie. He introduced into his creed, which so long has
                        imposed on Northern Europe and New England, all these degrading arcana. So that, for more than two
                        hundred years, Germany, especially, fell quite to the rear, as compared with
                        France and England, in ethical and intellectual progress. Till the peace of
                        Westphalia in 1648, at the close of the Thirty Years’ War, all was, in that
                        vast region, pure chaos. Indeed, till Frederic the Great’s time, a century
                        later, things were little better. Even to the very close of his reign that
                        “first of German sons,” who was himself a noted Voltairean, as Schiller
                        pathetically laments in his fine poem, “The German Muse,” cherished the
                        opinion, which subsequent events have proved so delusive, that the Germans
                        were “irreclaimable barbarians,” as he also held Shakespeare to be, whose
                        dramas he thought only fit for the savages of Canada. And this though in
                            his own lifetime Kant, Schelling,
                        Fichte, Bürger, Lessing, Herder, Goethe, Richter, and Schiller’s “Robbers,”
                        which last, no doubt, was especially distasteful to the great king, were
                        already above the horizon. David Hume, it will be remembered, delivered a
                        similar verdict upon the English “barbarians on the banks
                            of the Thames.” He held them as already quite below the pale of
                        Philosophy—a verdict fully corroborated by Lord Bacon in his essay on “The
                        True Greatness of Kingdoms,” and on “The Wisdom of the Ancients.” Commerce
                        he especially held to flourish during the disruption and decay of
                        nations.
                    R. Lewins, M.D., Surgeon Lieut.?Col. (Retired).Army and Navy
                            Club, Pall Mall.
                
            
            
            
                CONTENTS.
                
                    THE ASTRONOMER, Etc. 
                        The Astronomer 3
                        The Confession 11
                            The Roman Philosopher To Christian Priests 16
                        The Last Druid 19
                        The Carmelite Nun 22
                        The Alchemist 25
                        The Sculptor 27
                        The Sister of Mercy 29
                        The Wife’s Song 31
                        A Letter 34
                        The Mystic’s Prayer 36
                        The Pilgrim 39
                            The Pantheist’s Song Of Immortality 43
                        Light At Eventide 46
                        Books 48
                        Memory 50
                        Light?Born Sorrows 53
                        On The Malvern Hills 55
                            
                        January 28th, 1880 57
                        Springtide 59
                        Noonday 61
                        Twilight 63
                        Yearning 66
                        Changed 67
                        Sir Lancelot’s Bride 69
                        The Abbot 73
                        Das Ideal 76
                        
                    THE LADY DOCTOR, Etc. 
                        The Lady Doctor 81
                        The Old Love?Letters 85
                        Love Versus Learning 88
                        Moonlight and Gas 91
                        The Two Artists 93
                        Maiden Meditation 95
                        Lament of the Cork?Cell 98
                        Six Years Old 101
                        
                    SONNETS. 
                        January, 1879 109
                        To a Hyacinth In January 110
                        To The First Snowdrop 111
                        March, 1878 112
                        March, 1879 113
                        April, 1879 114
                            
                        May, 1879 115
                        Stratford?On?Avon, May 14th, 1880 116
                            In The Lanes Between Stratford and Shottery, May 14th, 1880 117
                        Sunshine 118
                        In The Garden 119
                        Yellow Roses 120
                        July, 1878 121
                        Sunset 122
                        September, 1880 123
                        Songs Before Daybreak 124
                        The Seed 125
                        October, 1879 126
                        November, 1878 127
                        December, 1879 128
                        Undiscerned Perfection 129
                        The Painter To The Musician 130
                        Speech And Silence 131
                        Beauty 132
                        The Mystery Of Light 133
                        Illusions 134
                        Day?Dreams 135
                        Morning Twilight 136
                        Semele 137
                        The Priest’s Prayer 138
                        Weariness 139
                        The Agnostic’s Psalm 140
                            To Amy, On Receiving Her Photograph 141
                        Starlight. I. 142
                        Starlight. II. 143
                        
                    
                    TRANSLATIONS (see also p. xxii.). 
                            The Knight of Toggenburg. From the German of Schiller 147
                            The Maiden’s Lament. From the German of Schiller 152
                            The Sharing Of Earth. From the German of Schiller 154
                            Comfort in Tears. From the German of Goethe 156
                            The Wanderer’s Night?Song. From the German of Goethe 158
                            Evening. From the German of Goethe 159
                            Bury The Dead Thou Lovest. From the German of Carl Siebel 160
                            Spring. From the German of Ernst Schulze 161
                            The Ruined Mill. From the German Julius Sturm162
                            The Fir?Tree. From the German of Luise von Ploennies 163
                            The Well. From the German of Paul Heyse 165
                            An Evening Song. From the German of Rückert. 167
                            My Only One. From the German of J.G. Fischer 169
                            Farewell. From the German of Emmanuel Geibel 170
                            The Better World. From the German of Hieronymus Lorm 172
                        
                    A MODERN APOSTLE, Etc. 
                        A Modern Apostle 175
                        The Elixir Of Life 239
                        The Story of Clarice 271
                        
                    
                    RESIPISCENTIA, Etc. 
                        Resipiscentia 291
                        The Recluse 297
                        Love’s Mirror 298
                        Friendship 300
                        Christ, The Nazarene 302
                        Song 303
                        Time And Love 304
                        
                    EVOLUTIONAL EROTICS. 
                        Scientific Wooing 307
                        The New Orthodoxy 311
                        Natural Selection 314
                        Solomon Redivivus 316
                        
                    SONNETS. 
                        Heloise 323
                                
                                    I. Bride 323
                                    II. Nun 324
                                    III. Abbess 325
                                
                        Hercules 326
                        Prometheus And Pandora 327
                        The Nebular Theory 328
                            
                        The Pessimist’s Vision 329
                        The Gift 330
                            Andrew Marvell’s “Definition Of Love” 331
                        Poet and Botanist 332
                        Science and Philosophy 333
                        The Double Rainbow 334
                        Recompense 335
                        
                    TRANSLATIONS. (see also p. xx.) 
                            Ideals. From the German of Schiller 339
                        Fragments From Faust 343
                                
                                    Mephistopheles on Logic 343
                                    The Baccalaureus 345
                                
                            The Eye. From the German of Emil Rittershaus 346
                            On The Water. From the German of Geibel 347
                            Dante and Nino. From the Italian of Dante 348
                        
                    FRAGMENTS. 
                        Winter And Spring 353
                        A Priest’s Warning 356
                        Night And Morning 360
                        
                
            
            
            
                DEDICATION.*
                To J. C. and Caroline Woodhill.
                
                    YE who received me, when your hearts were sore,
                    With double welcome, since I came in lieu
                    Of one whose fond embrace I never knew—
                    Your child, my mother, dear for evermore—
                    Who scarce had time to greet the babe she bore,
                    But, dying in her spring, bequeathed to you,
                    Her father and her mother, guardians true,
                    One little life, to tend when hers was o’er:
                
                
                    Ye who have watched me from my infant days
                    With tenderest love and care, who treasure yet
                    Quaint sayings, sketches rude, and childish lays;
                    Accept this wreath, entwined in April hours:
                    Yours was the garden where the seed was set,
                    To you I dedicate the opening flowers.
                
                This Dedication and the
                    Motto on the next page were originally prefixed to Miss Naden’s first volume of
                    poems, “Songs and Sonnets of Springtime.”
                
                
                    
                        
                            “Nicht länger wollen diesen Lieder leben
                            Als bis ihr Klang ein fühlend Herz erfreut,
                            Mit schönern Fantasien es umgeben,
                            Zu höheren Gefühlen es geweiht;
                            Zur fernen Nachwelt wollen sie nicht schweben,
                            Sie tönten, sie verhallen in der Zeit,
                            Des Augenblickes Lust hat sie geboren
                            Sie fliehen fort im leichten Tanz der Horen.”
                        
                        SCHILLER
                    
                
            
        
        
            
                
                    
                    
                    THE ASTRONOMER, Etc.
                    
                    
                        POEMS.
                        THE ASTRONOMER.
                        
                            WHITE, cold, and sacred is my chosen home,
                            A seat for gods, a mount divine;
                            And from the height of this eternal dome,
                            Sky, sea, and earth are mine.
                        
                        
                            All these I love, but only heaven is near,
                            Only the tranquil stars I know;
                            I see the map of earth, but never hear
                            Life’s tumult far below.
                        
                        
                            Bright hieroglyphs I read in heaven’s book;
                            But oft, with eyes too dim for these,
                            In half?regretful ignorance I look
                            On common fields and trees.
                        
                        
                        
                            Scant fare for wife and child the fisher gains
                            From yon broad belt of lucent grey;
                            Rude peasants till those green and golden plains;
                            Am I more wise than they?
                        
                        
                            Oh, far less glad! And yet, could I descend
                            And breathe the lowland air again,
                            How should I find a brother or a friend
                            ’Mid earth?contented men?
                        
                        
                            Though, while I sat beside my household fire,
                            Some dear, dear hand should clasp my own,
                            Must I not pine with home?sick, sharp desire
                            For this my mountain throne?
                        
                        
                            I were impatient of the narrowed skies,
                            Yes, even of the clasping hand;
                            And she, sad gazing in my restless eyes,
                            Would haply understand,
                        
                        
                            And know my fevered yearning to depart,
                            To dwell once more alone and free:
                            Well might I love, yet needs must break the heart
                            That puts its trust in me.
                        
                        
                        
                            Yet hope and ecstasy desert me not,
                            But coldly shine, like moonlit snows;
                            This earthly dream, renounced yet unforgot,
                            To heavenly splendour grows.
                        
                        
                            For oft, when sleep has lulled a brain o’erwrought,
                            Strange light across my brow is thrown;
                            The glorious incarnation of my thought,
                            Urania stands alone.
                        
                        
                            She, passionless, of no fond woman born,
                            Towers awful in her virgin grace;
                            Calmly she smiles; the first faint rose of morn
                            Flushes her sovereign face.
                        
                        
                            Her atmosphere of white unswerving rays
                            Athwart the fading moonlight swims;
                            Rare vapour, like a comet’s luminous haze,
                            Floats round her argent limbs.
                        
                        
                            Her clear celestial eyes look deep in mine,
                            Her brow and breast gleam icy pure;
                            She whispers—“Be thy heart my secret shrine,
                            So shall thy strength endure.
                        
                        
                        
                            “So shall thy god?like wisdom soar above
                            All rainbow hues of grief or mirth,
                            And I will love thee as the stars do love
                            Even thy distant earth.”
                        
                        
                            Then her eyes lighten, then her voice thrills clear,
                            But life and death contend in me;
                            And still she speaks, but now I may not hear;
                            Shines, but I dare not see.
                        
                        
                            How shall immortal splendour wed the gaze
                            Of man, who knows but that which seems,
                            Whose sight were blinded, if the sun should blaze
                            With unrefracted beams?
                        
                        
                            Void were the earth and formless, if arrayed
                            In purity of perfect white;
                            All things are clear by colour and by shade,
                            Glorious with lack of light.
                        
                        
                            But what is she, whose beauty makes me blind,
                            Whose voice is like the voice of Fate?
                            What, save a lustrous mirage of the mind,
                            My slave, whom I create?
                        
                        
                        
                            Yet from such dear illusions Wisdom springs,
                            Though these may fade she shall not die;
                            In fabled forms of heroes and of kings,
                            E’en yet we map the sky.
                        
                        
                            Slow?conquering Truth loves well the joyous noon,
                            But silent midnight gave her birth;
                            The cone of darkness that o’ershades the moon
                            Revealed the orbëd earth.
                        
                        
                            Man knelt to constellated suns supreme,
                            But as he knelt to golden clods,
                            Nor, till he ceased to worship, e’er could dream
                            The greatness of his gods.
                        
                        
                            He wove for all the planets as they passed
                            Strange legends, wrought of love and youth,
                            While o’er the poet?soul was vaguely cast
                            A shadow of the truth.
                        
                        
                            Kinsman is he to all the stars that burn
                            Mirrored in eyes of sleepless awe;
                            And from his brotherhood with dust, may learn
                            The heavens’ living law.
                        
                        
                        
                            Nor shall the essences of Truth and Might
                            Sleep ever in thick darkness furled:
                            Yon dim horizon bounds my present sight,
                            Not the eternal world.
                        
                        
                            When the skies glitter, when the earth is cold,
                            In some divine and voiceless hour,
                            The heavens vanish, and mine eyes behold
                            The elemental Power.
                        
                        
                            Now has the breath of God my being thrilled;
                            Within, around, His word I hear:
                            For all the universe my heart is filled
                            With love that casts out fear.
                        
                        
                            In one deep gaze to concentrate the whole
                            Of that which was, is now, shall be,
                            To feel it like the thought of mine own soul,
                            Such power is given to me.
                        
                        
                            My sight, love?strengthened, Time and Space controls;
                            No more are Force and Will at strife;
                            Beyond the sun I pass; around me rolls
                            Infinite?circled Life.
                        
                        
                        
                            This realm where he his destined orbit keeps,
                            This world of planet?ruling spheres,
                            Borne onward with its Pleiad?centre, sweeps
                            Through unimagined years.
                        
                        
                            In suns, that shining for some nobler race
                            Their twin?born light commingled give,
                            And through black depths of interstellar space
                            A boundless life I live.
                        
                        
                            To me the orbs their fiery past reveal,
                            With each minutest change designed;
                            Till, in this harmony of worlds, I feel
                            The future of mankind,
                        
                        
                            When each shall aid the universal plan,
                            When every deed its end shall serve,
                            When e’en the wildest comet?thought of man
                            Shall flash in ordered curve,
                        
                        
                            When mighty souls, that burst all prison bars,
                            Shall their diviner selves obey,
                            When man shall hold communion with the stars,
                            Constant and calm as they,
                        
                        
                        
                            When every heart shall perfect peace attain,
                            And every mind celestial scope;
                            Such were mine own, save for this hungry pain,
                            This lack of earth?born hope.
                        
                        
                            I were content, though palsied, sightless, dumb,
                            If, blasting toil?worn brain and eye,
                            The heights and depths of human joy to come
                            Shone clear, before I die.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE CONFESSION.
                        
                            OH, listen, for my soul can bear no more;
                            I crave not pardon; that I cannot win:
                            Yet hear me, Father, for I must outpour
                            My tale of deadly sin.
                        
                        
                            This night I passed through dim and loathsome lairs,
                            Where dwell foul wretches, that I feared to see:
                            Yet would to God my lot were such as theirs!
                            They have not sinned like me.
                        
                        
                            And then I saw that lovely girl who stood
                            Here, where I stand, some venial fault to show:
                            I was as fair, as innocently good,
                            One long, long year ago.
                        
                        
                            High thoughts were mine, and yearnings to endure
                            Some noble grief, and conquer heaven by pain:
                            Alas, I was a child; my prayers were pure,
                            Yet they were all in vain.
                        
                        
                        
                            Love came and stirred my breast; not fierce or vile,
                            But springing stainless, like some mountain stream;
                            And I was happy for a little while,
                            And lived as in a dream.
                        
                        
                            Thou art a priest, and dwellest far apart;
                            In vain I speak of joys thou hast not known:
                            Even to him I scarce could show my heart,
                            Although it was his own.
                        
                        
                            Nay, look not in my face! One night he came,
                            And I sprang forward, giddy with delight:
                            Father! His blood?stained hands! His eyes aflame!
                            His features deadly white!
                        
                        
                            Ah, wherefore ask me more? Some hated foe—
                            But ’tis a common tale—thou knowest all:
                            A word, a gesture; then a sudden blow;
                            And then—a dead man’s fall.
                        
                        
                            Dumbly I heard, and could not weep or sigh;
                            Gone was all power of motion, e’en of breath;
                            But from my heart rose up one silent cry,
                            My first wild prayer for death.
                        
                        
                        
                            “Farewell,” he said, “farewell! Yet bury deep
                            My bloody secret, that it shall not rise;
                            Or it will track and slay me, though I sleep
                            Nameless, ’neath foreign skies.”
                        
                        
                            Such boon he craved of me, his promised wife:
                            Earth’s hope, heaven’s joy, for him I lost the whole:
                            Some give but love, and some have given life,
                            But I gave up my soul.
                        
                        
                            “Embrace me not,” I said. But ere he went
                            One long impassioned kiss he gave me yet:
                            Still, still we loved—oh, Father, I repent—
                            Would God I could forget!
                        
                        
                            Ah, not to fiery love would Christ deny
                            The gift of mercy that I cannot seek:
                            Father, a guiltless man was doomed to die,
                            And yet I did not speak.
                        
                        
                            Mine was the sin; for me it was he died,
                            Slain for the murder that my Love had wrought:
                            How blest was he, when Death’s gate opened wide,
                            And Heaven appeared unsought!
                        
                        
                        
                            But I, who dared no seek the Virgin’s shrine,
                            Whose very faith was madness and despair,
                            Lived lonely, exiled far from Love Divine,
                            From peace, from hope, from prayer.
                        
                        
                            None dreamt that I consumed with secret fire,
                            Nor knew the sin that withered up my youth:
                            I wasted with a passionate desire
                            Only to tell the truth.
                        
                        
                            But now they say that he I love is dead;
                            Calmly I listen; see, my cheeks are dry;
                            My heart is palsied, all my tears are shed;
                            And yet I would not die.
                        
                        
                            Let me do penances to save his soul,
                            And pray thy God to lay the guilt on me;
                            Strong is my spirit; I can bear the whole,
                            If that will set him free.
                        
                        
                            For could my expiating woe and shame
                            Raise him to Paradise, with Christ to dwell,
                            Then were there joy in purgatorial flame—
                            Nay, there were Heaven in Hell.
                        
                        
                        
                            And then, perchance, when countless years are past,
                            Ages of torment in some fiery sea,
                            The grace of God may reach to me at last;
                            Yes, even unto me.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE ROMAN PHILOSOPHER TO CHRISTIAN PRIESTS.
                        
                            WELL have ye spoken, but the words ye said
                            Stir in my constant soul nor love, nor rage;
                            Through you my life is bare, my joy is dead,
                            Yet speak I calmly, as a Roman sage.
                        
                        
                            Behold the myriad orbs, whose light from far
                            Darts through the spherëd heavens, when day is done:
                            What if the dwellers in yon faintest star
                            Deem its weak light more glorious than the sun?
                        
                        
                            And were it granted those dim eyes to share
                            The glow of noon that glads our earth and sea,
                            Would they not hate the white unpitying glare,
                            And choose to dream in daylight, e’en as ye?
                        
                        
                        
                            Clear truth to vulgar minds no comfort yields;
                            The fair old myths have served their purpose well:
                            Is Heaven more bright than our Elysian fields?
                            And was not Tartarus sufficient Hell?
                        
                        
                            Till now, the ancient symbols have sufficed;
                            But there is room for all; the world is wide:
                            Zeno was great, and so, perchance, was Christ,
                            And so were Plato, and a score beside.
                        
                        
                            If I were young, I might adore with you;
                            But knowledge calms the heart, and clears the eye:
                            A thousand faiths there are, but none is true,
                            And I am weary, and shall shortly die.
                        
                        
                            It is not rest, to stand for evermore
                            And chant with myriads round a flaming throne;
                            I cave not this your heaven; my life is o’er,
                            And I would slumber, silent and alone.
                        
                        
                            Ye cannot give me back my one desire:
                            How have ye changed my daughter, my delight!
                            Since I, forsooth, must writhe in quenchless fire,
                            While she sings anthems, clad in vestal white!
                        
                        
                        
                            I have not warred with doctrines, but with deeds;
                            In fair and generous mood I met you first;
                            I hated not her teachers, nor their creeds,
                            And yet she scorns me as a thing accursed.
                        
                        
                            She deems my lordly house unclean, defiled;
                            She scarce will sip my wine, or taste my bread.
                            Ye boast of virgin martyrs—if my child
                            Die for her faith, my vengeance on your head!
                        
                        
                            Ye sons of slaves, unworthy to be free!
                            Calmly I speak, yet fear me, crafty priests!
                            I will rouse the people—they shall see
                            Your bodies hacked with knives, or torn by beasts.
                        
                        
                            Go, eat and drink, and call your feast divine;
                            But, if my daughter dies, ye shall not live:
                            The ancient Roman spirit still is mine,
                            And I forget not, neither can forgive.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE LAST DRUID.
                        
                            DESPAIRING and alone,
                            Where mountain winds make moan,
                            My days are spent:
                            Each sacred wood and cave
                            Is a forgotten grave
                            Where none lament.
                        
                        
                            This is my native sod,
                            But to a stranger God
                            My people pray;
                            Till to myself I seem
                            A scarce remembered dream
                            When morn is gray.
                        
                        
                            I know not what I seek;
                            My heart is cold and weak,
                            My eyes are dim:
                            
                            Across the vale I hear
                            An anthem glad and clear,
                            The Christians’ hymn.
                        
                        
                            Oh, Christ, to whom they sing,
                            Thou art not yet the King
                            Of this wild spot;
                            I am too weary now
                            At new?made shrines to bow;
                            I know Thee not.
                        
                        
                            They say, when death is o’er
                            Man lives for evermore
                            In heaven or hell;
                            They call Thee Love and Light:
                            Alas! they may be right,
                            I cannot tell.
                        
                        
                            But if in truth Thou live,
                            If to mankind Thou give
                            Life, motion, breath;
                            If Love and Light Thou be,
                            No longer torture me,
                            But grant me death.
                        
                        
                        
                            Give me not heaven, but rest;
                            In earth’s all?sheltering breast
                            Hide me from scorn:
                            The gods I served are slain;
                            My life is lived in vain;
                            Why was I born?
                        
                        
                            Gone is the ancient race;
                            Earth has not any place
                            For such as I:
                            Nothing is true but grief;
                            I have outlived belief,
                            Then let me die.
                        
                        
                            These dim, deserted skies
                            To aged heart and eyes
                            No comfort give:
                            Woe to my hoary head!
                            Woe! for the gods are dead,
                            And yet I live.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE CARMELITE NUN.
                        
                            SILENCE is mine, and everlasting peace;
                            My heart is empty, waiting for its Lord;
                            All hope, all passion, all desire shall cease,
                            And loss of self shall be my last reward.
                        
                        
                            For I would lose my life, my thought, my will;
                            The love and hate, the grief and joy of earth:
                            I watch and pray, and am for ever still;
                            So shall I find the death, which yet is birth.
                        
                        
                            Yet once I loved to hear the wild birds sing,
                            I knew the hedge?row blossoms all by name;
                            Keen sight was mine, to trace the budding spring,
                            Clear voice, for songs of joy when summer came.
                        
                        
                            Too dear I held each earthly sight and sound,
                            Too well I loved each fair created thing,
                            And when I prayed to Him I had not found,
                            I called Him in my heart “the mountains’ King.”
                        
                        
                        
                            All, all is past—gone, every vain delight;
                            No beauty tempts me in this lonely cell:
                            Yet why, O Lord, were earth and sky so bright,
                            Winning the soul that in Thyself should dwell?
                        
                        
                            Often my heart recalls the sacred time
                            When fell the tresses of my nut?brown hair;
                            But then will come—O God, forgive the crime!—
                            That guilty question—Can I still be fair?
                        
                        
                            I cannot quite forget that I am young;
                            I sometimes long to see my mother’s face:
                            Oh, when I left her, how she wept, and clung
                            About my neck in agonized embrace!
                        
                        
                            And there was one—Ah, no, the thought is sin—
                            Why come these thronging forms of earthly grace?
                            Close, close, my heart! Thou shalt not let them in,
                            To break the stillness of this holy place.
                        
                        
                            Oh, Mary, Mother, help me to endure! 
                            I am a woman, with a heart like thine:
                            But no—thy nature is too high and pure,
                            Thou canst not feel these low?born pangs of mine.
                        
                        
                        
                            Oh, for the vision of the Master’s face!
                            Oh, for the music of the heavenly throng!
                            I have but lived on earth a little space,
                            And yet I cry, “How long, O Lord, how long?”
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE ALCHEMIST.
                        
                            IN lonely toil my manhood has been spent,
                            Spurning all ties of home, all joyance free;
                            And now my heart is sick, my frame is bent,
                            And I would sleep, but rest is not for me.
                        
                        
                            Two gifts I seek, two wondrous powers unknown
                            Shall yield their treasures to my dauntless mind;
                            The meaner, boundless wealth to me alone;
                            The nobler, endless life for all mankind.
                        
                        
                            My star of distant hope doth far transcend
                            All dew?drop glories, that around me lie:
                            With Nature I will struggle to the end;
                            Conquer I must, though conquering I should die.
                        
                        
                            Though I should die, ere I have tasted life,
                            Losing the heritage I give to all;
                            Though, as I grasp the trophy of the strife,
                            My battle?wearied arm should powerless fall.
                        
                        
                        
                            I conquer still, though strength may not be mine
                            To drink the cup my dying hand prepares;
                            My life, but not my triumph I resign,
                            For all mankind shall be my deathless heirs.
                        
                        
                            I care not who the victor’s crown may wear,
                            I care not, though my bones neglected lie:
                            This is my latest, this my only prayer—
                            Come life, come death, let not my wisdom die.
                        
                        
                            Yet oh! sweet Life, for whom I long have served,
                            Whose glorious beauty I from far have seen,
                            Not this reward thy votary deserved,
                            Not this thy warrior’s guerdon should have been.
                        
                        
                            Oh no, it cannot be! for I shall live,
                            And priceless bounty royally impart,
                            And life and love, and wealth and gladness give,
                            Dug from the treasure cavern of my heart.
                        
                        
                            I still will hope, and struggle for the crown;
                            Night shall not come, before I grasp the truth;
                            For I will yet behold my just renown,
                            And feel at last the fresh delight of youth.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE SCULPTOR.
                        
                            BEFORE the noblest from his genius wrought
                            The sculptor stood: with awe, but not with pride,
                            He saw the image of his highest thought,
                            His inner self, transfigured, purified.
                        
                        
                            He spoke with sad emotion, half concealed,
                            Like one who sorrows, but would fain rejoice;
                            No glad content was in his eye revealed,
                            Nor any thought of triumph in his voice.
                        
                        
                            “This is my grand ideal. ’Twas for this
                            I gave my strength, while yet an eager boy;
                            Leaving fresh mirth for some diviner bliss,
                            Trusting to Hope my fair estate of joy.
                        
                        
                            “But hope is gone for ever. I am left
                            With this sublime fulfilment of my dreams;
                            Not of the midnight loveliness bereft,
                            Yet clear and steadfast in the noonday beams.
                        
                        
                        
                            “Oh, that some charm were wanting! that some stain
                            Marred the ideal grace that my vision wore!
                            For I may live, but cannot hope again,
                            And I may toil, but shall advance no more.
                        
                        
                            “I saw my rival frown, his cheek turn pale,
                            In envy of the fame so dearly bought;
                            But this I know—the hope of those who fail
                            Is better than the victory they sought.
                        
                        
                            “Yet in my heart some new delights may spring,
                            As humble flowers on lordly ruins live;
                            Still shall my work some tranquil pleasures bring,
                            Though not the ecstasy it once could give.
                        
                        
                            “I do not grieve that glowing youth is spent,
                            Nor would I quench the yet remaining fire;
                            Since lofty joy dwells not with calm content,
                            Nor peaceful happiness with strong desire.”
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE SISTER OF MERCY.
                        SPEAK not of passion, for my heart is tired,
                        I should but grieve thee with unheeding ears;
                        Speak not of hope, nor flash thy soul inspired
                        In haggard eyes, that do but shine with tears.
                        Think not I week because my task is o’er;
                        This is but weakness—I must rest to?day:
                        Nay, let me bid farewell and go my way,
                        Then shall I soon be patient as before.
                        Yes, thou art grateful, that I nursed thee well;
                        This is not love, for love comes swift and free:
                        Yet might I long with one so kind to dwell,
                        Cared for as in thy need I cared for thee:
                        And sometimes when at night beside thy bed
                        I sat and held thy hand, or bathed thy head,
                        And heard the wild delirious words, and knew
                        Even by these, how brave thou wert, and true,
                        Almost I loved—but many valiant men
                        These hands have tended, and shall tend again;
                        And now thou art not fevered or distressed
                        
                        I hold thee nothing dearer than the rest.
                        Nay, tell me not thy strong young heart will break
                        If to thy prayer such cold response I make;
                        It will not break—hearts cannot break, I know,
                        Or this weak heart had broken long ago.
                        Ah no! I would not love thee, if I could;
                        And when I cry, in some rebellious mood,
                        “To live for others is to live alone;
                        Oh, for a love that is not gratitude,
                        Oh, for a little joy that is my own!”
                        Then shall I think of thee, and shall be strong,
                        Knowing thee noblest, best, yet undesired:
                        Ah, for what other, by what passion fired,
                        Could I desert my life?work, loved so long?
                        I marvel grief like thine can move me still,
                        Who have seen death, and worse than death, ere now—
                        Nay, look not glad, rise up; thou shalt not bow
                        Thy knee, as if these tears thy hope fulfil:
                        Farewell! I am not bound by any vow;
                        This is the voice of mine own steadfast will.
                    
                    
                    
                        THE WIFE’S SONG.
                        
                            I. NIGHT.
                            
                                SHE kneels with folded hands, as though she prayed;
                                Over her pure, pale cheek the moonlight streams,
                                And o’er the slender form, in white arrayed;
                                Her room is consecrate to bridal dreams,
                                And she is like some lonely priestess?maid,
                                Believing, though her god be silent long,
                                And in his temple chanting secret song.
                            
                            
                                “To heaven I lift my longing eyes,
                                Knowing that yonder tranquil moon
                                Is bright for you in western skies.
                                And has she power your soul to tune
                                In subtlest harmony divine
                                With all the passioned thoughts of mine?
                            
                            
                                “Nay, rather let her give you rest,
                                In peace to sleep, with joy to wake;
                                
                                Yet, if a dream the slumber break,
                                Dream of my yearning lips and breast,
                                Hungered and lone, far off and sad,
                                But dream them near, and dream them glad!”
                            
                        
                        
                            II. MORNING.
                            
                                Now has she slept; nor fell there any blight
                                Over her beauty from those wakeful hours;
                                Her darkest grief was but a moonlit night,
                                Tuneful with birds, and sweet with summer
                                    flowers,
                                Closed by an early daybreak of delight;
                                And now she lifts anew her matin chant,
                                With all the garden conjubilant.
                            
                            
                                “The morning sunshine floods my room,
                                its tender glow my brow has kissed,
                                And scattered all the night?born gloom;
                                Yon, floating, thin, translucent mist,
                                Pierced through and through with living gold
                                Makes lovelier what it half enshrouds,
                                And you in distant skies behold
                                The self?same sun, but other clouds.
                            
                            
                            
                                “Trim English lowlands bloom for me,
                                For you, Atlantic waves are bright;
                                For both, o’er earth, and sky, and sea,
                                Through thought and passion, mind and heart,
                                Still streams the same all?glorious light:
                                Earth’s barriers keep us far apart,
                                But we are one at heaven’s height.”
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        A LETTER.
                        
                            ONLY a woman’s letter, brown with age,
                            Yet breathing deathless love, too strong and deep
                            E’er to be told, save by the written page,
                            That cannot blush, or hesitate, or weep:
                            Only a letter, treasured by the dead;
                            Voiceful, yet ever powerless to impart
                            Its hidden melodies to any heart
                            Alien from hers who wrote, from his who read;
                            Save as a lute long silent, waked at last
                            By heedless fingers, or by winds that thrill
                            The chords untuned, may feebly murmur still
                            Some love?sweet echoes from the tuneful past.
                        
                        
                            Take my one treasure: take, and ever keep
                            My whole heart’s love: nor shall the gift be vain,
                            Although it cannot bring you rest from pain,
                            Nor glad forgetfulness, nor tranquil sleep.
                            
                            Oh, that my power were boundless as my love!
                            Then would I give to him I hold so dear
                            Joys faintly dreamt by many an ancient seer,
                            Chanting sweet fables of the heavens above.
                        
                        
                            “Alas,” I thought, “such dreams are all too bright,
                            Too poor am I, of god?like gifts to sing;”
                            But you have said that even these I bring;
                            You tell me, that to raptured touch and sight,
                            I seem the essence of ethereal Spring,
                            The incarnation of perfume and light.
                            Wherefore I will not grieve, but gladly twine
                            Amid your mellow fruit my virgin flowers:
                            All have their time for love, and this is ours;
                            Let us rejoice, while yet the sun doth shine.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE MYSTIC’S PRAYER.
                        
                            MY God, who art the God of loneliness,
                            Who, Life of human souls, art yet alone,
                            Who, Lord of joy, dost bear the world’s distress,
                            Come Thou, and quench my being in Thine own;
                            Come, in this mute cathedral make Thy throne
                            While moonlight through the blazoned window streams,
                            Where kings and saints a ceaseless vigil keep;
                            Their reflex glories, like celestial dreams,
                            Haunt the grey carven brows of those who sleep,
                            Illuming changeless eyes, that will not wake and
                                weep.
                        
                        
                            Thy sleep, O Christ, hath sanctified their calm;
                            Their hands point upward; yet nor wish nor care
                            Doth move Thy tranquil souls to join the psalm
                            Sung in this ancient home of tears and prayer.
                            Yes, these are dead; but I, who live and breathe,
                            Would learn of them, and dying would bequeath
                            
                            A memory of one, who deaf to sound
                            Communed with Silence, guardian of all truth;
                            Who, with divinest midnight compassed round,
                            The secret soul of earth and heaven found,
                            And knew the heart of death, wherein are life and youth.
                        
                        
                            For this one hope I wrestle, day and night;
                            In this one faith I joined thy chosen saints,
                            And left my virgin love, my young delight,
                            An earth?born cloud, that seemed most fair and white
                            Until I looked beyond, and saw the sun,
                            And blinded by his beams, desired not sight.
                            Now might I dream that heaven is almost won,
                            Save that yon pale Madonna’s plaintive smile
                            Thrills me with anguish, till my spirit faints,
                            Till, even in this lone cathedral aisle,
                            A sad voice murmurs—“Didst thou scorn thy life
                            For love of God? and hath He sealed thy choice?
                            A main contented, or a happy wife
                            I might have been.” Hush, Lord, this bitter voice.
                            I am not worthy, save of Thy disdain,
                            Yet unto Thee have I performed my vow,
                            And tortured soul and sense, and prayed for pain;
                            It cannot be that Thou wilt scorn me now,
                            That thou hast let me toil and agonize in vain.
                        
                        
                        
                            Not martyrdom I crave, nor length of days;
                            But grant me, Lord, ere this frail form decays,
                            The perfect union that my soul has sought,
                            The ecstasy that knows nor prayer nor praise,
                            The raptured silence, unprofaned by thought.
                            No more wilt Thou in heavenly dreams appear,
                            When of Thy mystic Essence I am part,
                            For mine own soul I see not, nor can hear
                            Even the pulsings of this fevered heart,
                            Fevered and weary; but full calm is near;
                            Almighty calm, in endless being blest,
                            Infinitude of life, too deep for aught save rest.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE PILGRIM.
                        
                            THERE was a land, where all men lived in dreams,
                            Where heaven was hid by vapours, grey or gold;
                            Yet real seemed their life, as our life seems,
                            And lovers wooed, and merchants bought and sold;
                            But e’en ’mid feast, and song, and soft caress,
                            Each heart was sore with utter weariness.
                        
                        
                            And some were rich, some miserably poor,
                            And each for other felt a dull contempt;
                            And some were fools, of loftiest wisdom sure,
                            And some seemed wise, but no man knew he dreamt;
                            If any woke, men shrank with angry fear,
                            Or smiling said, “What doth this dreamer here?”
                        
                        
                            But at the last, one minstrel boy awoke,
                            And strove to rouse his fellows, but in vain;
                            
                            Till, strong and flushed with hope, away he broke,
                            And left them revelling in mirthful pain:
                            His hands were trembling from a last embrace,
                            Yet somewhat sternly smiled the youthful face.
                        
                        
                            His golden singing?robes were cast aside,
                            The roses all were shed, that wreathed his brow;
                            No more ’mid guilty dreams might he abide,
                            Who in his heart had sworn a solemn vow
                            To find the ancient innocent again
                            In some far land unknown of weary men.
                        
                        
                            No kindred nature deemed his purpose good;
                            The vision and the promise were his own:
                            High hills he climbed; through many a tangled wood
                            He cut his way, in darkness and alone,
                            Or built a trembling bridge where wild waves tossed,
                            Or in a fragile boat the surges crossed.
                        
                        
                            On sandy plains he saw fair miraged lakes,
                            And oft he hungered, and was oft athirst;
                            Through haunts of savage beasts and venomed snakes
                            He roamed, still bravest when the path was worst;
                            
                            Toiling for heedless kinsfolk unforgot,
                            For those delirious hearts, that knew him not.
                        
                        
                            But when he next shall speak, they must
                                awake;
                            Or if this last best triumph may not be,
                            Yet will he struggle, e’en for life’s dear sake—
                            What lustre blinds him? Has he strength to see
                            That primal Heaven on Earth, desired so long,
                            Won with no joy?burst, greeted with no song?
                        
                        
                            Oh, glorious recompense for vanished youth,
                            For love untasted, for the silenced lyre!
                            This is indeed that ancient land of truth,
                            Nobler than thought, more lovely than desire:
                            The snow?crowned heights are girt with blossoms sweet,
                            And grass lies cool beneath his fevered feet.
                        
                        
                            But is there respite here for soul and flesh?
                            Are yonder glades but homes of idle calm?
                            This is no dreamland—here the wind blows fresh,
                            Lulling the sense with no voluptuous balm;
                            Full life inspires the pilgrim’s heart and eyes
                            From yon bright waves, yon high unclouded skies.
                        
                        
                        
                            Shall he not twine fresh garlands for his head,
                            And seek new singing?robes of quaint device?
                            Here roses blush, more delicately red
                            Than e’er he dreamed the flowers of Paradise,
                            And in this lovely land is plenteous store
                            Of gems and gold, more rich than once he wore.
                        
                        
                            Ah no! Exulting ’neath yon radiant sky
                            For youth’s forgotten songs he oft may yearn;
                            But the unflinching hand, the wakeful eye,
                            Still tireless to their lonely task shall turn:
                            Ere his limbs fail, ere his strong heart be dumb,
                            Let him make plain the path, that all may come.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE PANTHEIST’S SONG OF IMMORTALITY.
                        
                            BRING snow?white lilies, pallid heart?flushed roses,
                            Enwreath her brow with heavy?scented flowers;
                            In soft undreaming sleep her head reposes,
                            While, unregretted, pass the sunlit hours.
                        
                        
                            Few sorrows did she know—and all are over;
                            A thousand joys—but they are all forgot:
                            Her life was one fair dream of friend and lover;
                            And they were false—ah, well, she knows it not.
                        
                        
                            Look in her face, and lose thy dread of dying;
                            Weep not, that rest will come, that toil will cease:
                            Is it not well, to lie as she is lying,
                            In utter silence, and in perfect peace?
                        
                        
                            Canst thou repine that sentient days are numbered?
                            Death is unconscious Life, that waits for birth:
                            So didst thou live, while yet thy embryo slumbered,
                            Senseless, unbreathing, e’en as heaven and earth.
                        
                        
                        
                            Then shrink no more from Death, though Life be gladness,
                            Nor seek him, restless in thy lonely pain:
                            The law of joy ordains each hour of sadness,
                            And firm or frail, thou canst not live in vain.
                        
                        
                            What though thy name by no sad lips be spoken,
                            And no fond heart shall keep thy memory green?
                            Thou yet shalt leave thine own enduring token,
                            For earth is not as though thou ne’er hadst been.
                        
                        
                            See yon broad current, hasting to the ocean,
                            Its ripples glorious in the western red:
                            Each wavelet passes, trackless; yet its motion
                            Has changed for evermore the river bed.
                        
                        
                            Ah, wherefore weep, although the form and fashion
                            Of what thou seemest, fades like sunset flame?
                            The uncreated Source of toil and passion,
                            Through everlasting change abides the same.
                        
                        
                            Yes, thou shalt die: but these almighty forces,
                            That meet to form thee, live for evermore:
                            They hold the suns in their eternal courses,
                            And shape the tiny sand?grains on the shore.
                        
                        
                        
                            Be calmly glad, thine own true kindred seeing
                            In fire and storm, in flowers with dew impearled;
                            Rejoice in thine imperishable being,
                            One with the Essence of the boundless world.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        LIGHT AT EVENTIDE.
                        
                            EVIL has brought forth good, but good in turn
                            Brings evil forth, and painfully we learn
                            The rich resulting harmony of life:
                            Triumphant glories, that most brightly burn,
                            Last not the longest; for the worth of strife
                            Consists not in the crown the victors earn.
                        
                        
                            The man who truly strives can never fail;
                            For though at set of sun
                            The battle is not won,
                            And he is left, despairing and alone;
                            Yet through the gloom, when flesh and spirit quail,
                            New radiance flashes, e’en to hope unknown.
                        
                        
                            He that can walk in darkness, will not slip
                            Although some bright surprise
                            At first may blind his eyes;
                            The ancient glow comes back to heart and lip,
                            And tears remembered make his laughter wise.
                        
                        
                        
                            Fresh love and joy, not seeking, he shall find,
                            While Truth at last her promised garland weaves,
                            Not of gay roses or green laurels twined,
                            But bright with scarlet berries, amber leaves.
                        
                        
                            In some fair glade he seems awhile to rest,
                            All Dead Sea fruits forgot;
                            Wild songsters chant, while breezes blow;
                            His path is overgrown, his brow caressed
                            By blossoms, that he did not sow,
                            And foliage, that he tended not.
                        
                        
                            And what though once, in vain yet noble quest,
                            With burning feet and eyeballs dim,
                            He strove to scale volcanic heights of power?
                            Since on the fertile terrace grew for him
                            Wisdom and Love, rich fruit and glorious flower.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        BOOKS.
                        
                            OH, fatal fruits, nurtured with tears and blood!
                            To taste your richness, we have given youth,
                            Unshadowed mirth, and calm credulity;
                            Your heavy perfume spoils the wild?flower scent
                            Wafted around us by the winds of heaven.
                            Ye steal the young delight, that was so sweet,
                            The simple, thoughtless joy in all things fair,
                            Giving instead a weary questioning,
                            A striving for what cannot be attained,
                            A cloudy vision of the inner life.
                            We might have lingered in our paradise,
                            Hearing no music sadder than the notes
                            Of dreamy birds; while Hope and Memory,
                            Still young and fair and gaily innocent,
                            Still undefiled by any touch of doubt,
                            Together trod the dewy meads of life.
                        
                        
                            Thus said I, in unreasoning complaint,
                            Bitterly railing on the friends I love
                            
                            Because their voice and sweet companionship
                            Must bring the grief that ever comes with joy.
                            My heart was full: each common sight and sound
                            Seemed fraught with mournful meaning; and the earth
                            Was like a hopeless bride, bedecked in vain
                            With gems and flowers, for one who will not come.
                            What wonder I rebelled against the art
                            That taught me thus to think in metaphors,
                            And gave me reasons for my soul’s unrest?
                            For I remembered not that it had drawn
                            My higher nature forth, and given voice
                            To secret melody. I missed the truth
                            That knowledge is a greater thing than mirth.
                            And aspiration more than happiness.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        MEMORY.
                        
                            PRECIOUS glimpses through the future’s curtain
                            He may catch, who sees the past unveiled;
                            Else, in seeking for a goal uncertain,
                            Blindly groping, will and heart had failed.
                        
                        
                            What were love, its faded flowers uncherished?
                            What were life, its bygone days forgot?
                            Memory may live, when hope has perished;
                            Hope were dead, if we remembered not.
                        
                        
                            All our past, in colours soft and tender,
                            Stretches backward, till it melts in night;
                            While the future, robed in hazy splendour,
                            Shows us transient phantoms of delight;
                        
                        
                            Glorified reflections of the present;
                            Spirits of the days that once have been;
                            Hopes of bright perfection, when life’s crescent
                            Fills the orbëd outline, dimly seen.
                        
                        
                        
                            Yesterday’s delights will haunt to?morrow,
                            Subtle essences of vanished joys,
                            Till the spectre of remembered sorrow
                            Their ethereal witchery destroys.
                        
                        
                            Rays of memory have sunned our pleasure;
                            In the self?same light regret will spring;
                            Sorrow is man’s burden, yet his treasure;
                            Proves him servant, yet proclaims him king.
                        
                        
                            Sharpest anguish, meaner things besetting,
                            Finds a perfect and a swift relief:
                            Man alone, immortal, unforgetting
                            Wears the sombre coronal of grief.
                        
                        
                            In his heart a quenchless fire is burning,
                            Kindled ere his conscious life began:
                            Lord of restless thought and noble yearning
                            Reigns in loneliness the soul of man.
                        
                        
                            Yet the earth must yield him free communion,
                            Heights of heaven his daring hope must gain,
                            Till he joy in that eternal union
                            Which the struggling spirit may attain.
                        
                        
                        
                            Linking Past, and Present, and Hereafter
                            Man shall find a staff, where seems a rod:
                            Solemn memories, that check his laughter,
                            Draw him nearer to the heart of God.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        LIGHT?BORN SORROWS.
                        
                            HATH Wisdom made thee weep? Be yet more wise,
                            And sing for joy. The blind man, gaining sight,
                            Says haply, “Would I ne’er had seen the light!
                            This world is all so strange, my ’wildered eyes
                            Know nought of fair or foul: ah, dear content,
                            Ere any spectre came to me at night,
                            When, watched and soothed by unimagined skies,
                            My dreams were nought but music and sweet scent.
                            Now must I link to faithful touch and tone
                            A wondrous alien form, unloved, unknown,
                            And try to read the face that may be sweet
                            When I have learnt its language—not till then.
                            E’en if I shut my eyes, am blind again,
                            And strive, undoubting, that dear voice to greet,
                            To trust the hand, that still must guide my feet,
                            The phantom that I know not comes between;
                            I must look up—I, who was blind from birth,
                            And conning wistfully her face and mien,
                            
                            Interpret mystic features by clear voice,
                            Loving the song, must love the plumage too,
                            And make the rose’s scent explain its hue:
                            Thus, keeping faith in beauty, I rejoice,
                            (Or hope for joy) in green fields, heavens blue,
                            In all my new?found plenty, felt as dearth,
                            In all enigmas of this visible earth.”
                        
                        
                            Ah, think ye not, if that poor man be wise,
                            He will exult because his night is past,
                            Saying “Although it come to baffled eyes,
                            Yet light is good, and shall be sweet at last:
                            From this new face, that even now grows dear,
                            I shall but learn more richly cadenced love,
                            And all this foreign world, around, above,
                            Shall float like music to my inward ear;
                            Amid all discords, through all thunder?strife,
                            My soul shall glory in perfected life.”
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        ON THE MALVERN HILLS.
                        
                            IN pleasant shade I walk, while sunshine lies
                            On many a distant slope,
                            And far above me, gold?green summits rise,
                            Like steadfast towers of Hope.
                        
                        
                            My hands are full of wreathëd bryony,
                            And bracken from the hill;
                            And sated with the beauty that I see
                            My very heart is still.
                        
                        
                            Lonely I step o’er this elastic sod;
                            All living things are dumb;
                            But whispering of heights I have not trod
                            The mountain breezes come.
                        
                        
                            Only a little while my heart can rest,
                            A little while forget
                            The rugged paths to many a sun?lit crest
                            That must be mounted yet.
                        
                        
                        
                            Take, wild fresh winds, my fading flowers and fern;
                            These joys I may not keep:
                            Sweet slumberous glade, farewell! When I return,
                            It will be time for sleep.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        JANUARY 28th, 1880.
                        
                            NO more I long for April’s fitful sheen,
                            For little fluttering lives, that passed in June,
                            For leaves and flowers, by sad October lost;
                            Since now in ecstasy mine eyes have seen
                            The rich blue heaven of a summer noon
                            O’er dazzling trees, thick?robed with mossy frost.
                        
                        
                            Amid the leafless hedge?rows jewel?twined,
                            Great trunks and boughs, not crystal?clad as they,
                            Like black majestic arches I behold;
                            All wreathed and crowned with woven sprays, defined
                            In every tender shade of pearly grey,
                            And radiant white, that glitters into gold.
                        
                        
                            Around the mighty limbs all gnarled and bowed,
                            The oak?tree twigs are finely interlaced;
                            The willows droop in bright cascades of foam,
                            Each distant tree, a white and feathery cloud,
                            The nearer branches, delicately traced,
                            And gleaming pure against the azure dome.
                        
                        
                        
                            The winds are hushed—there comes no murmuring breeze
                            To stir the poplar’s lofty sun?lit cone,
                            Or myriad branchlets of the wide?spread beech:
                            Through this all?glorious temple of the trees,
                            As through the house of God, I walk alone;
                            A silence, as of worship, is their speech.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        SPRINGTIDE.
                        THE silver birch, with pure?green flickering leaves,
                        Flooded by morn with golden light, rejoices,
                        And mingles with the kindred merriment
                        Of perfume?laden winds and happy voices:
                        No child of spring is lonely, but receives
                        Some subtle charm, by diverse beauty lent,
                        And with another life its own inweaves;
                        E’en man’s creative eyes win all their gain
                        From light, whose glory, but for him, were vain.
                        While bud the flowers, while May?tide sunshine beams,
                        Through all the world of mind and body streams
                        One constant rapture of melodious thought,
                        One fragrant joy, with summer promise fraught,
                        And one eternal love illumes the whole;
                        For odour, light, and sound are truthful dreams,
                        Inspired by Nature in the human soul.
                        This fresh young life, whereof my own is part,
                        With boundless hope all earth and heaven fills;
                        
                        The birds are waking music in my heart,
                        A voiceless chant, more sweet than they can sing;
                        My thoughts are sunbeams; all my being thrills
                        With that exultant joy whose name is Spring.
                    
                    
                    
                        NOONDAY.
                        
                            THE deep enchantment of the summer?tide
                            Lay o’er the earth, and hill and valley dreamed,
                            And all the trees with light were glorified,
                            That through the half?transparent foliage gleamed.
                        
                        
                            The sunbeams brightly pierced the deep?red beech,
                            Kindling the sombre leaves to scarlet flame:
                            Like half?articulate, melodious speech, &
                            The thousand murmurs of the noonday came.
                        
                        
                            All sounds were mingled in one dreamy tune;
                            All joys were fused in one supreme delight:
                            No hope, no fear, profaned that lustrous noon,
                            Nor any dim forebodings of the night.
                        
                        
                            It was a poet’s paradise of rest,
                            Where, for a season, heart and brain might sleep:
                            Not now by passion and by thought possessed,
                            Yet ripening golden grain, that they must reap.
                        
                        
                        
                            Grain to be harvested with anxious toil,
                            Winnowed and crushed, till fullest worth be won:
                            But first, in light and heat, the fruitful soil
                            Receives the inspiration of the sun.
                        
                        
                            And even night, with depth of mystic gloom,
                            And even Autumn, with its slow decay,
                            Bring no more solemn message than the bloom
                            And joyful splendour of a summer day.
                        
                        
                            To each grand thought, some beauteous form replies;
                            The soul, exalted to its noblest height,
                            Grows, like the pure, illimitable skies,
                            The chosen home of Mystery and Light.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        TWILIGHT.
                        
                            THE radiant colours in the west are paling;
                            Fast fades the gold, and green, and crimson light,
                            And softly comes, each trivial object veiling,
                            The all?ennobling mystery of night.
                        
                        
                            This is the hour of thought and silent musing,
                            When poets’ fancies tender buds unfold;
                            Like the sweet primrose of the twilight, choosing
                            To spend on evening noonday’s gift of gold.
                        
                        
                            These blossoms hide within their deep recesses
                            Treasures the wandering wind can never seize;
                            Not all its inner wealth the flower confesses,
                            Nor gives its choicest perfume to the breeze.
                        
                        
                            What wizard’s wand can charm the secret sweetness
                            From the fair prison, where it lies concealed?
                            What poet’s lay can show in grand completeness
                            The inmost heart, by human speech revealed?
                        
                        
                        
                            We twine the spell of rich harmonious numbers,
                            We conjure up the graceful words in vain:
                            Our lighter fancies waken from their slumbers;
                            Without a voice the noblest thoughts remain.
                        
                        
                            So dash the restless billows of the ocean,
                            But bring no tidings of the tranquil deep;
                            Above, are endless tumult and commotion;
                            Below, are silence and eternal sleep.
                        
                        
                            Beneath the realms that human skill discloses,
                            Where Life and Death have ceased their ancient fight,
                            The deep foundation of the earth reposes,
                            A temple sacred to primæval night.
                        
                        
                            In wild rejoicing, and in vengeful madness,
                            Men haste o’er vale and mountain, sea and shore,
                            But calmly, underneath their grief and gladness,
                            The earth’s great secret lies for evermore.
                        
                        
                            Above, the sky with myriad stars is gleaming;
                            Fair in their light the sleeping land appears;
                            And yet that radiance, o’er the earth down?streaming,
                            Tells not the wonders of the distant spheres.
                        
                        
                            
                            
                                And far beyond the realms of starlight glory
                                Are mysteries too high for Fancy’s wing,
                                Nameless alike in science and in story
                                In all that sage can tell or poet sing.
                            
                            
                                As height and depth alike transcends our Vision,
                                The human soul whence clearest lustre beams,
                                Has yet its Hades and its fields Elysian,
                                Revealed alone in symbols and in dreams.
                            
                            
                                For there are griefs, that none has ever spoken,
                                Joys, that no mortal tongue has power to tell;
                                The silence of the soul must be unbroken
                                Till to the speech of earth we bid farewell.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        YEARNING.
                        
                            I MURMUR songs of past delight,
                            To tunes of present pain:
                            Around me is the empty night
                            That answers not again.
                        
                        
                            My thoughts were better told by tears,
                            And yet I scorn to weep:
                            Forgetting hopes, forgetting fears,
                            My eyes and heart shall sleep.
                        
                        
                            Yet must I see, in visions wild,
                            The joys I cannot gain,
                            And, like a little lonely child,
                            Stretch out my arms in vain.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        CHANGED.
                        
                            THEY told me she was still the same,
                            In form, and mind, and heart;
                            With freshly?dawning joy I came,
                            And now in grief depart.
                        
                        
                            Still round the forehead, smooth and white,
                            The golden tresses twine,
                            The face is fair, the step is light,
                            As when I called her mine.
                        
                        
                            And yet the mouth that once I kissed
                            Is not the same as then;
                            The smile of love I never missed
                            Comes not for me again.
                        
                        
                            More measured is the silver voice,
                            The words more fitly said;
                            But while she speaks, I half rejoice
                            To feel my love is dead.
                        
                        
                        
                            The eyes are deeper than before,
                            And far more subtly sweet;
                            And yet I pray that mine no more
                            Their altered glance may meet.
                        
                        
                            My dream is past. I loved a child,
                            The woman I resign;
                            The world and she are reconciled,
                            And now she is not mine.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        SIR LANCELOT’S BRIDE.
                        
                            SOFT blows the breeze, the sun shines bright,
                            The birds sing loud and gay;
                            But from the castle on the height
                            Sounds forth a blither lay.
                        
                        
                            The hall is decked with flowerets fair,
                            The gates are opened wide,
                            To welcome home that youthful pair,
                            Sir Lancelot and his bride.
                        
                        
                            The lingering hours pass slowly by,
                            The blossoms droop and fade;
                            And many a bright impatient eye
                            Looks down the rocky glade.
                        
                        
                            “Look forth, my son, adown the height,”
                            Outspeaks a harper old;
                            “Methought I saw a helmet bright
                            Flash back the sunset’s gold.
                            
                            
                                “Sir Lancelot’s band draw nigh, my sire,
                                Their hundred helmets gleam,
                                And like a line of living fire
                                They ford the shallow stream.
                            
                            
                                “Hurrah! hurrah! they come, they come!
                                But why so slow and sad?
                                Why march they not to beat of drum,
                                With shouts and laughter glad?
                            
                            
                                “Oh, sweet and sad their music streams,
                                In cadence low and long;
                                More like a funeral dirge it seems
                                Than a gay bridal song.”
                            
                            
                                “Look forth again,” the old man said,
                                “Thy sight is strong and clear;
                                What bear they on that narrow bed,
                                That looks so like a bier?”
                            
                            
                                “I see the gleam of golden hair,
                                As slowly on they ride:
                                For weird in beauty, strangely fair,
                                They bring Sir Lancelot’s bride.
                            
                            
                            
                                “They bear her through the rocky dale;
                                Methinks they sigh and weep:
                                My lady’s cheek is deadly pale—
                                Oh, say, can that be sleep?
                            
                            
                                “She lies in all her loveliness,
                                A fair yet awful sight;
                                And that is not her bridal dress,
                                That gleams so ghastly white.
                            
                            
                                “The light falls on her lily cheek,
                                And on her golden head—
                                Oh, hush, or but in whispers speak:
                                Say not—that she is dead!
                            
                            
                                “Alas, alas! in deep despair
                                Sir Lancelot’s head is bowed:
                                He hides his face; he cannot bear
                                To see the snow?white shroud.”
                            
                            
                                Within the hall the flowerets fair
                                Ere now have drooped and died;
                                Fit welcome to that mournful pair,
                                Sir Lancelot and his bride.
                            
                            
                            
                                The morn shall come with brighter flowers,
                                The lark shall warble gay;
                                But never more shall Lancelot’s towers
                                Send forth a gladsome lay.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE ABBOT
                        
                            SLOWLY, with dream?like sadness, tolled
                            The monastery bell;
                            The Abbot of those cloisters old
                            Lay dead within his cell.
                        
                        
                            The monks were gathered round his bed;
                            Solemn and still they stood;
                            The fearful presence of the dead
                            Awed that stern brotherhood.
                        
                        
                            They gazed upon his hoary head,
                            And on his noble brow;
                            They saw the form whence life had fled—
                            Where was the spirit now?
                        
                        
                            Strong will was his, a nature stern,
                            That loved nor wine nor gold:
                            Did youthful passion ever burn
                            Within that bosom cold?
                        
                        
                        
                            The monks had loosed his rugged vest,
                            While yet alive he lay:
                            What saw they on that wasted breast
                            That gleamed so golden gay?
                        
                        
                            No shining cross, no image fair,
                            Those eager brethren found;
                            Only a tress of golden hair,
                            With a black ribbon bound.
                        
                        
                            They gazed upon that witness dumb,
                            That told of love and death;
                            Some spake with scorn, with pity some,
                            But all with bated breath.
                        
                        
                            “Lay it again upon his breast,”
                            An ancient brother said;
                            “His soul hath entered into rest;
                            Judge not the silent dead.
                        
                        
                            “Long hath he lived a life apart
                            From every earthly snare;
                            Yet who shall say what aching heart
                            Throbbed ’neath his shirt of hair?
                        
                        
                        
                            “Blame not his long?enduring love,
                            Nor call it weak and vain,
                            But pray that he, in realms above,
                            May meet his bride again.”
                        
                        
                            They buried him beneath the shade
                            Of cloisters grey and old;
                            And near his silent heart they laid
                            That treasured lock of gold.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        DAS IDEAL.
                        
                            
                                “Denn sehet, das Reich Gottes ist inwendig in euch.”
                            
                            Luc. xvii. 21.
                        
                        MEINEM VEREHRTEN FREUNDE HERRN DR. LEWINS IN
                            DANKBARKEIT GEWIDMET.
                        
                            ICH bin ein Sonnenkind, und strebe immer
                            Hinauf zum ew’gen Licht;
                            Der Erdentag, der enge Wolkenschimmer
                            Stillt meine Sehnsucht nicht.
                        
                        
                            Genügt es mir, auf Bergeshöh’ zu wohnen,
                            Der scheuen Gemse gleich?
                            Nein! wo kein Adler schwebte, muss ich thronen,
                            Wie in der Ahnherrn Reich.
                        
                        
                            Zerreissen will ich die geträumten Schleier
                            Des Stoffs, des Raums, der Zeit,
                            Und mich ergiessen, frei und immer freier,
                            In die Unendlichkeit.
                        
                        
                        
                            Nie soll es mir an Brüdergeistern fehlen,
                            Wie hier im Lügenrauch;
                            Das todte Weltall will ich selbst beseelen,
                            Mit leichtem Gotteshauch.
                        
                        
                            Der Wind verstärkt sich nur durch eignes Wehen,
                            Die That gebiert die Kraft:
                            Ich bin noch nicht. Erst kann der Mensch
                                entstehen,
                            Wenn er als Gott erschafft.
                        
                        
                            Umsonst! Was hilft’s, dass sich der Wahrheit Funkeln
                            Zu vollem Tag vermehrt?
                            Selbst auf dem Sonnenthron muss sich verdunkeln
                            Das Herz, das stets begehrt.
                        
                        
                            Wie sollt’ ich laben mein verdurstet Wesen
                            Mit leerem, schwankem Schein?
                            Nur an der Erde Brust kann ich genesen
                            Von scharfer Himmelspein.
                        
                        
                            Verzeih’ mir, o Natur, das kind’sche Lallen,
                            Den rasenden Gesang:
                            Doch was bist Du, als nur das Wiederhallen
                            Vom alten Seelenklang?
                        
                        
                        
                            Der kühne Dichtertraum ist nicht verloren,
                            Er war zu eng, zu bleich:
                            Nur in des Menschen Seele wird geboren
                            Das Erd? und Himmelreich.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                
            
            
            
                
                    
                    THE LADY DOCTOR, Etc.
                    
                    
                        THE LADY DOCTOR.
                        
                            SAW ye that spinster gaunt and grey,
                            Whose aspect stern might well dismay
                            A bombardier stout?hearted?
                            The golden hair, the blooming face,
                            And all a maiden’s tender grace
                            Long, long from her have parted.
                        
                        
                            A Doctor she—her sole delight
                            To order draughts as black as night,
                            Powders, and pills, and lotions;
                            Her very glance might cast a spell
                            Transmuting Sherry and Moselle
                            To chill and acrid potions.
                        
                        
                            Yet if some rash presumptuous man
                            Her early life should dare to scan,
                            Strange things he might discover;
                            For in the bloom of sweet seventeen
                            She wandered through the meadows green
                            To meet a boyish lover.
                        
                        
                        
                            She did not give him Jesuit’s bark,
                            To brighten up his vital spark,
                            Nor ipecacuanha,
                            Nor chlorodyne, nor camomile,
                            But blushing looks, and many a smile,
                            And kisses sweet as manna.
                        
                        
                            But ah! the maiden’s heart grew cold,
                            Perhaps she thought the youth too bold,
                            Perhaps his views had shocked her;
                            In anger, scorn, caprice, or pride,
                            She left her old companion’s side
                            To be a Lady Doctor.
                        
                        
                            She threw away the faded flowers,
                            Gathered amid the woodland bowers,
                            Her lover’s parting token:
                            If suffering bodies we relieve,
                            What need for wounded souls to grieve?
                            Why mourn, though hearts be broken?
                        
                        
                            She cared not, though with frequent moan
                            He wandered through the woods alone
                            Dreaming of past affection:
                            
                            She valued at the lowest price
                            Men neither patients for advice
                            Nor subjects for dissection.
                        
                        
                            She studied hard for her degree;
                            At length the coveted M.D.
                            Was to her name appended;
                            Joy to that Doctor, young and fair,
                            With rosy cheeks and golden hair,
                            Learning with beauty blended.
                        
                        
                            Diseases man can scarce endure
                            A lady’s glance may quickly cure,
                            E’en though the pains be chronic;
                            Where’er that maiden bright was seen
                            Her eye surpassed the best quinine,
                            Her smile became a tonic.
                        
                        
                            But soon, too soon, the hand of care
                            Sprinkled with snow her golden hair,
                            Her face grew worn and jaded;
                            Forgotten was each maiden wile,
                            She scarce remembered how to smile,
                            Her roses all were faded.
                        
                        
                        
                            And now, she looks so grim and stern,
                            We wonder any heart could burn
                            For one so uninviting;
                            No gentle sympathy she shows,
                            She seems a man in woman’s clothes,
                            All female graces slighting.
                        
                        
                            Yet blame her not, for she has known
                            The woe of living all alone,
                            In friendless, dreary sadness;
                            She longs for what she once disdained,
                            And sighs to think she might have gained
                            A home of love and gladness.
                        
                        
                            Moral.
                            Fair maid, if thine unfettered heart
                            Yearn for some busy, toilsome part,
                            Let that engross thee only;
                            But oh! if bound by love’s light chain,
                            Leave not thy fond and faithful swain
                            Disconsolate and lonely.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE OLD LOVE?LETTERS.
                        
                            TO?DAY I’ve discovered a treasure
                            Tied up with a ribbon of blue;
                            That record of pain and of pleasure,
                            A packet of old billets?doux.
                        
                        
                            The note?paper, quite out of fashion,
                            The date of ten summers ago,
                            Recall the unreasoning passion
                            Of juvenile rapture and woe.
                        
                        
                            No face was so lovely as Minnie’s,
                            I praised it in prose and in verse;
                            Her curls were like piles of new guineas—
                            Alas, she had none in her purse!
                        
                        
                            I loved her for beauty and kindness,
                            I grieved when I fancied her cold,
                            But Cupid, quite cured of his blindness,
                            Now takes a good aim at the gold.
                        
                        
                        
                            To fair Lady Flora, the heiress,
                            I’ve offered my love and my life;
                            Repenting of ancient vagaries,
                            I’ll settle to wealth and a wife.
                        
                        
                            The heat of my boyhood is banished
                            Alike from my heart and my head;
                            The comet for ever has vanished,
                            But fireworks will answer instead.
                        
                        
                            I’ve kept all my ardent effusions,
                            Appeal, protestation, and vow:
                            I’m cured of my youthful delusions,
                            And can’t write such love?letters now.
                        
                        
                            The thing was excessively silly,
                            But then we were only eighteen,
                            And she was all rose?bud and lily,
                            And I was uncommonly green.
                        
                        
                            I’m happy to say she was fickle,
                            She blighted my love with a frown;
                            It withered, ere Time with his sickle
                            Could cut the first blossoming down.
                        
                        
                        
                            We parted—how well I remember
                            That gloomy yet fortunate day!
                            It seemed like the ghost of December,
                            Aroused by the frolics of May.
                        
                        
                            I shook myself loose from her fetters—
                            (I did not express it so then);
                            ’Twas well she returned me the letters,
                            For now I can use them again.
                        
                        
                            I am not afraid of detection,
                            I cast all my scruples away;
                            The embers of former affection
                            Shall kindle the fire of to?day.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        LOVE VERSUS LEARNING.
                        
                            ALAS, for the blight of my fancies!
                            Alas, for the fall of my pride!
                            I planned, in my girlish romances,
                            To be a philosopher’s bride.
                        
                        
                            I pictured him learned and witty,
                            The sage and the lover combined,
                            Not scorning to say I was pretty,
                            Nor only adoring my mind.
                        
                        
                            No elderly, spectacled Mentor,
                            But one who would worship and woo;
                            Perhaps I might take an inventor,
                            Or even a poet would do.
                        
                        
                            And tender and gay and well?favoured,
                            My fate overtook me at last:
                            I saw, and I heard, and I wavered,
                            I smiled, and my freedom was past.
                        
                        
                        
                            He promised to love me for ever,
                            He pleaded, and what could I say?
                            I thought he must surely be clever,
                            For he is an Oxford M.A.
                        
                        
                            But now, I begin to discover
                            My visions are fatally marred;
                            Perfection itself as a lover,
                            He’s neither a sage nor a bard.
                        
                        
                            He’s mastered the usual knowledge,
                            And says it’s a terrible bore;
                            He formed his opinions at college,
                            Then why should he think any more?
                        
                        
                            My logic he sets at defiance,
                            Declares that my Latin’s no use,
                            And when I begin to talk Science
                            He calls me a dear little goose.
                        
                        
                            He says that my lips are too rosy
                            To speak in a language that’s dead,
                            And all that is dismal and prosy
                            Should fly from so sunny a head.
                        
                        
                        
                            He scoffs at each grave occupation,
                            Turns everything off with a pun;
                            And says that his sole calculation
                            Is how to make two into one.
                        
                        
                            He says Mathematics may vary,
                            Geometry cease to be true,
                            But scorning the slightest vagary
                            He still will continue to woo.
                        
                        
                            He says that the sun may stop action,
                            But he will not swerve from his course;
                            For love is his law of attraction,
                            A smile his centripetal force.
                        
                        
                            His levity’s truly terrific,
                            And often I think we must part,
                            But compliments so scientific
                            Recapture my fluttering heart.
                        
                        
                            Yet sometimes ’tis very confusing,
                            This conflict of love and of lore—
                            But hark! I must cease from my musing,
                            For that is his knock at the door!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        MOONLIGHT AND GAS.
                        
                            THE poet in theory worships the moon,
                            But how can he linger, to gaze on her light?
                            With proof?sheets and copy the table is strewn,
                            A poem lies there, to be finished to?night.
                            He silently watches the queen of the sky,
                            But orbs more prosaic must dawn for him soon—
                            The gas must be lighted; he turns with a sigh,
                            Lets down his venetians and shuts out the moon.
                        
                        
                            “This is but a symbol,” he sadly exclaims,
                            “Heaven’s glory must yield to the lustre of earth;
                            More golden, less distant, less pure are the flames
                            That shine for the world over sorrow and mirth.
                            When Wisdom sublime sheds her beams o’er the night,
                            I turn with a sigh from the coveted boon,
                            And choosing instead a more practical light
                            Let down my venetians and shut out the moon.”
                        
                        
                        
                            He sits to his desk and he mutters “Alas,
                            My muse will not oaken, and yet I must write!”
                            But great is Diana: venetians and gas
                            Have not been sufficient to banish her quite.
                            She peeps through the blinds and is bright as before,
                            He smiles and he blesses the hint opportune,
                            And feels he can still, when his labour is o’er,
                            Draw up his venetians and welcome the moon.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE TWO ARTISTS.
                        
                            “EDITH is fair,” the painter said,
                            “Her cheek so richly glows,
                            My palette ne’er could match the red
                            Of that pure damask rose.
                        
                        
                            “Perchance, the evening rain?drops light,
                            Soft sprinkling from above,
                            Have caught the sunset’s colour bright,
                            And borne it to my love.
                        
                        
                            “In distant regions I must seek
                            For tints before unknown,
                            Ere I can paint the brilliant cheek
                            That blooms for me alone.”
                        
                        
                            All this his little sister heard,
                            Who frolicked by his side;
                            To check such theories absurd,
                            That gay young sprite replied:
                        
                        
                        
                            “Oh, I can tell you where to get
                            That pretty crimson bloom,
                            For in a bottle it is set
                            In Cousin Edith’s room.
                        
                        
                            “I’m sure that I could find the place,
                            If you want some to keep;
                            I watched her put it on her face—
                            She didn’t see me peep!
                        
                        
                            “So nicely she laid on the pink,
                            As well as you could do,
                            And really, I almost think
                            She is an artist, too.”
                        
                        
                            The maddened painter tore his hair,
                            And vowed he ne’er would wed,
                            And never since, to maiden fair,
                            A tender word has said.
                        
                        
                            Bright ruby cheeks, and skin of pearl,
                            He knows a shower may spoil,
                            And when he wants a blooming girl
                            Paints one himself in oil.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        MAIDEN MEDITATION.
                        
                            “I’LL don my kerchief blue,” she said,
                            “And wear my Sunday gown,
                            For every morn, with lightsome tread
                            A youth goes by to town.
                        
                        
                            “And ever as he passes by,
                            Methinks he walks more slow,
                            And glances up, with wistful eye,
                            To where I sit and sew.
                        
                        
                            “And sometimes, with a tender sound
                            He whistles soft and low;
                            How can that gentle youth have found
                            That I love music so?
                        
                        
                            “His flashing eyes reveal his soul,
                            They are so very bright;
                            And ever in his button?hole
                            He sticks a lily white.
                        
                        
                        
                            “He never dons a flaunting rose,
                            But always wears the same;
                            Perhaps it is because he knows
                            That Lily is my name!
                        
                        
                            “I’ll wear a wreath of lilies white
                            Methinks, when I’m a bride—
                            Oh, here he comes, with footstep light—
                            But—who walks at his side?
                        
                        
                            “It’s some one in a scarlet shawl;
                            Perhaps he calls her fair,
                            But I don’t think she’s nice at all:
                            I hate that yellow hair!
                        
                        
                            “How can he walk with such a fright?
                            Oh dear, what shall I do?
                            He’s given her that blossom white!
                            Is her name Lily too?
                        
                        
                            “But now I look at him, he seems
                            Less handsome than before;
                            His eyes have lost their radiant gleams,
                            His voice is sweet no more.
                        
                        
                        
                            “His hair, methinks, is getting red,
                            His nose less straight appears:
                            I could not such a creature wed,
                            Though he should sue for years!
                        
                        
                            “And other youths for me may sigh,
                            And I may love again,
                            But never, never more will I
                            Watch at the window?pane!”
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        LAMENT OF THE CORK?CELL. *
                        
                            FAREWELL oh mocking Wind! No more I mix
                            Thine airy substance with my world, the Tree:
                            Farewell, oh Carbon, that I cannot fix,
                            And Oxygen, that I no more set free!
                        
                        
                            They tell me I have helped the trunk to grow,
                            The roots to suck the earth, the boughs to fork,
                            The fruits to ripen—well, it may be so,
                            But I am dying, and shall soon be cork.
                        
                        
                            Dead, sapless cork! yet I remember still
                            My moist and merry life in windy March;
                            How green I was! how full of chlorophyll!
                            But soon it shrivelled, leaving only starch.
                        
                        * Towards the end
                            of summer, the cells immediately beneath the epidermis of a young shoot
                            usually become converted into cork. Their green colour is changed to
                            brown, and the walls are rendered almost impervious to water, so that
                            vital functions are no longer possible.
                        
                        
                            Blest epoch! when transparent and elastic,
                            My membrane scarce restrained its endoplast,
                            When, homogeneous, semi?fluid, plastic,
                            My vital molecules rotated fast.
                        
                        
                            Dry as I am, I once was young and tender,
                            Alive with chemic yearnings; then, alas!
                            What thoughtless joy was mine, in spring tide splendour,
                            To decompose carbonic acid gas!
                        
                        
                            Oh, had I sunk to inorganic slumber,
                            And left the atoms to their gaseous glee!
                            The greatest pleasure of the greatest number
                            My life may serve—but what is that to me?
                        
                        
                            Backward I look, as o’er a fearful chasm,
                            To days when I rejoiced to live and grow;
                            Now less and less becomes my protoplasm,
                            My nucleus divided long ago.
                        
                        
                            My wall grows thicker, dryer—oh to issue
                            From this dark prison, where compressed I dwell,
                            To live, no more a part of any tissue,
                            But a primordial protoplasmic cell!
                        
                        
                        
                            A cell amœboid, drifting from its mother,
                            Naked and houseless in the cruel storm,
                            Having no aid of sister or of brother,
                            Nor any cellulose to keep it warm;
                        
                        
                            Yet having freedom! Nay, the dream I banish,
                            The time of cell?division long is past;
                            Slowly and surely, all my contents vanish,
                            My walls are waterproof—I’m cork at last!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        SIX YEARS OLD.
                        
                            THEY’VE left me alone in the garden,
                            So I’ll talk to that dear little wren—
                            Mr. Beetle! I do beg your pardon,
                            I was very near killing you, then.
                        
                        
                            I’ll tell you a tale, Mrs. Robin,
                            Please do not be frightened at all—
                            A tale about Neddy and Dobbin—
                            She’s gone! she’s flown over the wall!
                        
                        
                            That wall must be very old—maybe
                            They’re the children of Israel’s bricks;
                            It was built before I was a baby,
                            And now—only think—I am six!
                        
                        
                            Six years old! What a beautiful swallow,
                            Catching flies! How I wish he could speak!
                            He’s gone down to that house in the hollow;
                            I went there to dinner last week.
                        
                        
                        
                            I could stay in that garden for ever,
                            And make friends with the beeches and limes:
                            I saw Dr. Jones—he’s so clever;
                            He writes to the papers sometimes!
                        
                        
                            He looked at me hard through his glasses,
                            And said, “Now make plenty of noise,
                            Have a regular romp with my lasses,
                            And be petted and teased by the boys.”
                        
                        
                            He said that my curls wanted rumpling,
                            My cheeks should be red and not pink,
                            He called me a sweet little dumpling—
                            He’s very insulting, I think.
                        
                        
                            ’Twas Nurse that had made me so tidy,
                            And how can I help being small?
                            He gave me some roses on Friday;
                            Perhaps he is nice, after all.
                        
                        
                            I stayed with the children till seven;
                            They’re kind, but so dreadfully rough!
                            There were ten of them—I made eleven—
                            We played Tick, French and English, and Buff.
                        
                        
                        
                            The girls are as bad as their brothers,
                            They teased me, and played me such tricks!
                            But Maude isn’t rude like the others,
                            She says I look older than six.
                        
                        
                            She showed me her dog and her kittens,
                            And the birds, and the fish in the pool:
                            She crochets her scarves and her mittens,
                            And goes to Miss Trimmington’s school.
                        
                        
                            She mustn’t make blunders or stammer,
                            Or stoop when she sits on the bench;
                            She knows History, Science, and Grammar,
                            Geography, Tables, and French.
                        
                        
                            She takes pepper and mustard at dinner,
                            She may ask for plum?pudding again:
                            I wish I were taller and thinner,
                            I wish—how I wish—I were ten!
                        
                        
                            She has brothers and sisters—a dozen—
                            And Rover, and Pussy, and Poll;
                            But I haven’t even a cousin,
                            I’ve only Mamma, and my doll.
                        
                        
                        
                            Papa’s out all day in the City,
                            And I’m often in bed when he comes:
                            He’s so tired and so grave—what a pity!
                            When will he have finished his
                                sums?
                        
                        
                            I wish there were more of us, only
                            It’s nice to play just what I please;
                            And when I am mopish and lonely
                            I always can talk to the trees.
                        
                        
                            Mamma says, “Sweet flowers will not tarry,
                            But trees are companions for life.”
                            I wish that great lime?tree could marry,
                            With me for his dear little wife!
                        
                        
                            Sometimes, when I shoot at the sparrows
                            (I don’t want to hit them, they know),
                            I peel his small twigs for my arrows,
                            And bend a strong branch for my bow.
                        
                        
                            If he died, oh, how much I should miss him!
                            (It’s only his dry sticks I
                                peel)
                            I put my arms round him and kiss him,
                            And sometimes I think he can feel.
                        
                        
                        
                            Those beautiful green caterpillars
                            Live here, that Nurse cannot endure;
                            And the birds—cruel butterfly?killers!
                            But they don’t know it’s wrong, I am sure.
                        
                        
                            I make tales about flying and creeping
                            About branches, and berries, and flowers;
                            And at night, when I ought to be sleeping,
                            I wake and lie thinking for hours.
                        
                        
                            I keep quiet, that Nurse may not scold me,
                            And think, while the stars twinkle bright,
                            Of the tales that Aunt Mary has told me,
                            And wonder—who comes here at night?
                        
                        
                            I fancy the fairies make merry,
                            With thorns for their knives and their forks;
                            They have currants for bottles of sherry,
                            And the little brown heads are the corks.
                        
                        
                            A leaf makes the tent they sit under,
                            Their ball?room’s a white lily?cup:
                            Shall I know all about them, I wonder,
                            For certain, when I am grown up?
                        
                        
                        
                            Far over the seas and the mountains
                            There’s a wonderful country of light;
                            My new home—full of castles and fountains;
                            My Dolly goes there every night.
                        
                        
                            I’ve seen it in dreams—there are plenty
                            Of birds and beasts, talking in verse;
                            I shall take Mamma there when I’m twenty,
                            And Papa, and Aunt Mary, and Nurse.
                        
                        
                            Papa will look glad, when I show him
                            Such new and such beautiful things;
                            He’ll be pleased when I write my grand poem,
                            And paint a bright angel with wings.
                        
                        
                            I’ll swim, with a mermaid and merman,
                            Through the seas and the ocean so broad;
                            I’ll learn French, and Italian, and German,
                            And soon be as clever as Maude.
                        
                        
                            I’ll often have tea at Aunt Mary’s,
                            With marmalade—orange and quince:
                            I’ll visit the queen of the fairies,
                            And then I will marry a prince.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                
            
            
            
                
                    
                    SONNETS.
                    
                    
                        JANUARY, 1879.
                        
                            WITH bounding heart, with eyes and cheeks aglow.
                            Not caring how the frost may stab and sting,
                            I haste along, where leafless branches fling
                            Their clear blue shadows o’er the sun?lit snow.
                            For though I count sad Winter as my foe,
                            Within my heart I can create the Spring,
                            Can hear sweet music, ere the thrushes sing,
                            And see white flowers, before the pear?buds blow.
                        
                        
                            These homely scenes, whence first my childish eye
                            Its own ideal form of beauty chose,
                            I love for ever; leaves and blossoms die,
                            But this ethereal image lingers yet;
                            And if I grieved, I could but grieve for those
                            Who know not spring, or having known, forget.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        TO A HYACINTH IN JANUARY.
                        
                            SWEET household hyacinth, whose dainty breath
                            Steals through my spirit like an April dream!
                            Each day I watch another snowy gleam,
                            That dawns and brightens through thine emerald sheath:
                            The encircling air, the water from beneath,
                            The fireside glow, the pallid noon?day beam,
                            Arise transfigured in thy white raceme,
                            Safe from the New Year’s wind, whose touch were death.
                        
                        
                            The bells of Spring are not so sweet and fair,
                            For they with wind and rain and hail must cope,
                            That all too soon their tender life destroy;
                            But thou, warm sheltered from the frosty air,
                            Art like some delicate and hidden hope,
                            More full and fragrant than the promised joy.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        TO THE FIRST SNOWDROP.
                        
                            FAIR, sunny?hearted child of many tears!
                            Thou, while thy mother Earth forsaken slept,
                            Didst gather to thyself pure hopes, that crept
                            Through stormy dreams; and now the sun appears,
                            White buds reflect each rare faint smile, that cheers
                            The home where thine unshapen germ was kept,
                            Safe in deep midnight, while the heavens wept,
                            Or hung the shuddering trees with frosty spears.
                        
                        
                            Now springs to life and light each buried joy,
                            With broken music and with tearful glow,
                            With drooping blossoms, winter?pale and coy;
                            For Love shall soon fulfil her long desire—
                            Her face and breast are memories of snow,
                            Her heart, like thine, is lit with vestal fire.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        MARCH, 1878.
                        
                            THE blackbird sits and pipes his love?notes clear
                            In yon dark tracery of budding sprays,
                            Sharply defined against the distant haze,
                            But soon ’mid fresh green leaves to disappear:
                            Now soft, now keen, the wind breathes hope and fear,
                            While with unsheltered almond flowers It plays:
                            The skies are sad, remembering winter days,
                            But birds and blossoms know that Spring is here.
                        
                        
                            I, too, foresee her glory, and rejoice;
                            Though to my heart she comes in wintry guise,
                            Dark?robed, slow?stepping; for in eye and voice
                            Are promises of music and of light,
                            And I can wait till smiles shall come for sighs,
                            And golden hues for grey, and bloom for blight.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        MARCH, 1879.
                        
                            YE little birds, that chant your love so loud,
                            Your careless hearts are not so glad as mine,
                            For he who sings because the sun doth shine
                            Is robbed of joy by every murky cloud;
                            And ye, sweet heralds of the summer crowd
                            Of unremembered flowers, whose tints combine
                            To light the meadows—ye grow pale and pine,
                            When by cold winds your radiant heads are bowed.
                        
                        
                            From you, from all fair creatures of the earth,
                            I do but gain the beauty that I give;
                            Your form, your music, in my soul have birth,
                            And in my very life your colours live;
                            And when the sunlight fades, and ye depart,
                            I hold your joy within my secret heart.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        APRIL, 1879.
                        
                            CLEAR, golden, soft, the spring?tide sunshine beams,
                            With tranquil splendour piercing grove and dingle,
                            As though bright morning, noon, and eve could mingle
                            In some eternal home of daylight dreams;
                            Even as though this radiance were not fleeting,
                            But shone for ever from the slumbering skies,
                            Calming with tender light impassioned eyes,
                            And sleepless brain, and heart too strongly beating.
                        
                        
                            Yet cold March winds prepared these breezes warm,
                            And heralded this glow of April weather,
                            And soon dim flakes of cloud will float together,
                            Till earth be sad once more with rain and storm;
                            For all fresh glory must be born of strife,
                            And still perfection were but death in life.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        MAY, 1879.
                        
                            AT last, coy Spring, concede one festal day
                            To us who yearn thy beauty to behold;
                            These pallid leaves, that peer above the mould,
                            Perfume and brighten; lanes and woods array
                            With hawthorn, that was wont to bloom in May,
                            White?petalled, crimson?anthered; lilies cold,
                            With drooping bells that hide their central gold,
                            And sun?bright buttercups and cowslips gay.
                        
                        
                            Long have we listened to a song of death,
                            That wild winds chant o’er living seeds entombed:
                            Sing thou of life; inspire us with thy breath;
                            Transfuse thy lustre e’en through clouds and showers;
                            Our hearts shall glow, like dells by thee illumed,
                            Whose shadows are but images of flowers.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        STRATFORD?ON?AVON, MAY 14th, 1880.
                        THE grey old church is solemn in the sheen
                        Of noonday—half its reverend beauty won
                        From that blind, silent, lifeless denizen
                        Who sleeps within; whose living soul is seen
                        In tall and arching lindens, freshly green,
                        With light leaves golden?twinkling in the sun;
                        In all sweet May?tide joyance, new begun,
                        That sings or blooms where frost and snow have been
                        And in the rippling, daisy?bordered river,
                        That flashes back the joy of God and man,
                        And whispers to fresh hearts, that wake and quiver,
                        Such melodies, as round young Shakespeare wove
                        Their spells, while near his feet the Avon ran,
                        Changeful, yet changeless, e’en as life and love.
                    
                    
                    
                        IN THE LANES BETWEEN STRATFORD AND SHOTTERY, MAY 14th, 1880.
                        
                            THROUGH dreamful meads, that still his spirit keep,
                            Roamed the boy?poet, when the morn was young,
                            And listened while the skylark’s mirth out?rung,
                            Though his own heart was warbling strains more deep;
                            And ’mid half?wakened king?cups, thought of sleep
                            More sweet than theirs, that waited till he sung,
                            And bade it flee; then to his eyes there sprung
                            Such gladsome tears, as waking, she might weep.
                        
                        
                            Here with his Love he wandered to and fro,
                            Yet ’mid his utmost passion of desire,
                            High hopes, deep thoughts, had room to live and grow;
                            Here, while he mused of old heroic strife,
                            His blood leapt through his veins, a fount of fire,
                            And all his nature glowed with boundless life.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        SUNSHINE.
                        
                            COME, tender sunlight of the spring, and shine
                            Through all my thoughts; my inmost being fill,
                            Teaching my heart to glow, and yet be still,
                            With that victorious quiet which is thine.
                            Oh that my hand had cunning to combine
                            The tints wherewith thou robest copse and hill!
                            But I, so rich in love, am poor in skill,
                            And praise fair Truth, yet may not build her shrine.
                        
                        
                            But every spirit, worshipping aright,
                            Must glory in the gifts that others bring;
                            So would I triumph—not as one apart,
                            But with the kindred throng who love the light,
                            Joying in beauty that transcends my art,
                            And mutely dreaming notes I cannot sing.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        IN THE GARDEN.
                        
                            SWEET sounds, and scents, and colours join to woo
                            My musing heart to love and reverence;
                            A tender and a subtle influence
                            Comes from each graceful form, each brilliant hue;
                            Strange power have they, my spirit to imbue
                            With thoughts above themselves; for e’en while sense
                            Adores the Beautiful with joy intense,
                            The soul, far gazing, only seeks the True.
                        
                        
                            And ye, fair flowers, translating to my sight,
                            In gold or blue the pure uncoloured beams,
                            Are poets and revealers of the light;
                            Soon is your message told, your life?work done,
                            For all your tints are only passing dreams
                            Of the eternal splendour of the sun.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        YELLOW ROSES.
                        
                            MY sweet sun?tinted roses, faint and fair
                            As morning twilight! though ye soon must fade,
                            Still shall ye bloom for me. I will not braid
                            Soft leaves and fragile blossoms in my hair,
                            But for a few bright hours, with loving care
                            I strive to paint the golden light and shade
                            Wherein each curling petal is arrayed,
                            And the translucent green your leaf?sprays wear.
                        
                        
                            So would I keep sweet hopes, that else might die,
                            And fragrant fancies, withering too fast,
                            All fresh delight in earth, and sea, and sky,
                            And the deep joy, so near akin to grief;
                            That from the slumberous garden of the past
                            I may not lose one sun?reflecting leaf.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        JULY, 1878.
                        
                            LIKE waves that rise and fall, the morning sheen
                            Glows between quivering leaves, which fain would
                                fling
                            Their dust and blight to breezes, murmuring
                            Sweet May?time legends ’mid the sombre green.
                            Alas for wistful eyes, that have not seen
                            The promised loveliness: for changeful Spring
                            Has quickly passed, and summer does but bring
                            Scorched buds and flowers, that tell what might have been.
                        
                        
                            The trees are dark against the tender blue;
                            A deeper shade has bronzed the purple beech,
                            But even yet, the red leaves bud anew:
                            And thus, ’mid barren splendours of July,
                            Fresh, brilliant hopes burst forth in glowing speech,
                            And light some pensive heart before they die.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        SUNSET.
                        
                            THE sun is setting—not in colours gay,
                            But pure as when he blazed with noonday heat;
                            The upland path is gold before my feet,
                            Save where long, dancing, poplar?shadows play,
                            Or arching lindens cast a broader gray:
                            This radiant hour, when peace and passion meet,
                            Stirs with tumultuous breezes, freshly sweet,
                            The odorous languor of an August day.
                        
                        
                            Above is peace; below is gleeful strife;
                            Aflame with sunshine, battling with the wind,
                            The trees rejoice in plenitude of life:
                            A sea of light is sleeping in the west,
                            Untroubled light, o’erflowing heart and mind
                            With that empyreal rapture, which is rest.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        SEPTEMBER, 1880.
                        
                            TO still September comes a dream of joy:
                            The breath of dying roses in the calm
                            And sultry air, seems changed to hyacinth?balm;
                            Fresh beams and breezes waken, such as toy
                            With amorous wind?flowers and May?lilies coy:
                            Raise, oh ye birds, a wild conjubilant psalm!
                            Autumn has reached the goal, has gained the palm,
                            And Winter comes not surely to destroy.
                        
                        
                            Nay, prosperous Autumn! not for thee shall ope
                            May’s blossoms; nor for thy dull ear shall sing
                            Her choir of birds; thine own winds whirl away
                            Thy golden vapours, and thy rich decay,
                            Till Winter come, stern pioneer of Spring,
                            Renewing Earth by terror and by hope.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        SONGS BEFORE DAYBREAK.
                        
                            THE birds are singing, though it is not morn,
                            Though in the east no rays of glory shine:
                            Made clear by hope, their eyes and hearts divine
                            That in the dusky twilight, day is born.
                            Trusting they carol, though the heavens warn
                            Their fearless joy with many a threatening sign;
                            Though, still untinged with gold, the clouds combine,
                            While moans the rain?fraught wind, a voice forlorn.
                        
                        
                            Yes, wake me with your warbling, happy birds,
                            That I may feel, before I see, the day;
                            That I may muse of hope, while in my heart
                            The notes translate themselves in gladsome words:
                            E’en plashing rain?drops mingle with your lay,
                            And in its harmony the wind has part.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE SEED.
                        
                            NO light of sun or moon can reach the seed
                            That blindly in the bosom of a flower
                            Ripens through summer, till its living power
                            Breaks the frail clasp that held it, and is freed:
                            Yet not with new?found sunshine can it feed
                            The embryo life, that lighted but an hour
                            Waits long in utter night its glorious dower:
                            Cold grows the earth, and spring?time shall not speed.
                        
                        
                            Not as when warm in fragrant gloom it lay,
                            But living hopeless, tombed in frost?bound sod,
                            Now seems it poorer than the lifeless clod,
                            That lies above it, open to the day:
                            Yet Night shall keep her own, and lose not one,
                            And every child of Day shall find the sun.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        OCTOBER, 1879.
                        
                            THROUGH all the dolorous year mine eyes have sought
                            The ever?living loveliness that cleaves
                            Even to dim grey skies and rain?bent sheaves;
                            Still is my garden with such beauty fraught,
                            And bright azaleas flash me back my thought;
                            Their sunny flowers are fallen, but the leaves
                            Flame gold and scarlet, and my heart receives
                            Delight more full than spring or summer brought.
                        
                        
                            And I can twine a rich October crown
                            With branchlets of the golden?tressëd birch,
                            Green cedar plumes, and beech?leaves ruddy brown,
                            And woodbine gems, of pure translucent red;
                            Even some lonely flowers may cheer my search,
                            Sweet as new joys that spring when hope is dead.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        NOVEMBER, 1878.
                        
                            THE sky is dim and silent; lost are mirth,
                            Colour, and motion; e’en the winds are dumb,
                            Save for a constant, faint, unchanging hum,
                            That seems the voice of the despairing earth
                            The birds are pining in this wintry dearth;
                            The trees, that rang with carols frolicsome,
                            Show dead black branches, fringed with white, whence
                                come
                            No whispered hopes of any future birth.
                        
                        
                            And yet to me, the season still is fair,
                            Though things of joy so sad and cold become;
                            Majestic stand the trunks and branches bare,
                            Their lace?like twigs half?seen, half?hid with snow:
                            One frost?bit flower, a red chrysanthemum
                            Tells of the hidden store of life below.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        DECEMBER, 1879
                        
                            NOW is the Earth at rest from sun and storm;
                            And stripped of all her gems and vestures gay,
                            Gives thanks to Heaven, while weaklings can but pray:
                            In germs of life, uncouth of hue and form,
                            She feels the glory of the summer swarm,
                            And knows December not less rich than May;
                            For she is young as on her primal day,
                            And still beneath the snow her heart is warm.
                        
                        
                            All flowers and fruits are folded in her breast,
                            Waiting but fuller radiance from above;
                            And she lies dreaming of her destined hour,
                            All white and still, most like a soul at rest,
                            Rich in hid wealth, and strong in secret power,
                            Silent with joy, and pure with perfect love.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        UNDISCERNED PERFECTION.
                        
                            BEYOND the realm of dull and slumberous Night
                            I long have wandered with unwearied feet;
                            The land where Poetry and Science meet
                            Streaks the far distance with a magic light:
                            Fair visions glide before my dazzled sight,
                            And shine, and change, and pass with motion fleet,
                            But never clear, and steadfast, and complete
                            In one transcendent brilliancy unite.
                        
                        
                            I know, the seeming discord is but mine;
                            The glory is too great for mortal eyes,
                            All powerless to discover the divine
                            And perfect harmony of earth and skies:
                            I know that each confused and tortuous line,
                            To fuller sight, in true perspective lies.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE PAINTER TO THE MUSICIAN.
                        
                            OH, sing once more, nor think your subtle spells
                            Are vainly woven for a nature cold,
                            Although I kneel not at the shrine of gold
                            Wherein the spirit of your worship dwells:
                            For when your voice in tones impassioned swells,
                            The hosts of Dreamland are by you controlled,
                            And secrets higher than my words unfold
                            Even to me the perfect music tells.
                        
                        
                            And your devotion is akin to mine,
                            Though I give praise in colour, you in song;
                            The self?same goddess, in another shrine,
                            Counts me among the servitors who throng
                            Her outer courts: to Poesy divine
                            Our noblest work, our deepest thoughts, belong.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        SPEECH AND SILENCE.
                        
                            WHEN some sweet voice flows forth in foreign speech,
                            The soul shines through the words, and makes them
                                clear,
                            And all we see interprets all we hear,
                            For smiles and frowns have wondrous power to teach:
                            And voiceless grief our inmost heart can reach,
                            With calm, deep gaze, too sad for hope or fear:
                            Our eyes are wet for those who shed no tear,
                            And lips that Death has silenced, yet may preach.
                        
                        
                            In stillness we must win our deepest lore,
                            Or ’mid the speechless chant of earth and sea:
                            Truth is a spirit, bodiless and free;
                            Imaged in words, ’tis perfect truth no more,
                            For all our lofty visions fade and flee,
                            And song begins, when ecstasy is o’er.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        BEAUTY.
                        
                            ETERNAL Beauty, Truth’s interpreter,
                            Is bound by no austere æsthetic creed;
                            All forms of art she uses at her need,
                            And e’en unlovely things are slaves to her:
                            And we, whose hearts her lightest breath can stir,
                            Must prize her flowers, whoe’er has sown the seed,
                            And love each noble picture, song, or deed,
                            Whose soul is true, although the form should err.
                        
                        
                            She is God’s servant, but the queen of man,
                            Who fondly dreams she lives for him alone,
                            And while her power is felt through time and space,
                            Proclaims her priestess of some petty clan,
                            Catching but transient glimpses of a face
                            Veiled in rich vestures, loved but still unknown.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE MYSTERY OF LIGHT.
                        
                            LIGHT glorious and eternal, that reveals
                            All earthly things, itself is secret still;
                            Love, silent king of heart, and mind, and will,
                            In lustrous mystery his power conceals;
                            And many a clouded spirit dumbly feels,
                            But knows not, sees not yet, those truths that fill
                            With beauty and with joy the dwellings chill
                            Even of life that wounds, of Death that heals.
                        
                        
                            Yet Light, and Love, and Truth are all our own,
                            And minister to us, who know them not;
                            Fair hopes, that look like memories, will throng
                            E’en hearts that live in darkness and alone,
                            And seem to chant some half?remembered song,
                            The notes recalled, the lovely words forgot.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        ILLUSIONS.
                        
                            NOT in the heavens alone is Truth renowned;
                            Sad human hearts, that seem to love her less,
                            Even in mutiny her power confess:
                            We speak in fables, and are compassed round
                            With poesy, distilling song from sound,
                            Colour from light, and hope from happiness;
                            Subliming weakness, yearning, and distress,
                            To that high faith wherewith our life is crowned.
                        
                        
                            All fair deceits are prophets of the truth,
                            E’en as the desert mirage tells a tale
                            Of palms and wells, real, though far away:
                            The star?bright hopes that light the world’s dim youth
                            Are not too brilliant, but too silvery pale,
                            To sparkle still, when dawns the golden day.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        DAY?DREAMS.
                        
                            FULL oft through some enchanted land I tread,
                            Wherein can live no hatred, pain, or fear,
                            Where all the heavens with Truth’s own light are
                                clear,
                            And Love’s own tints o’er all the earth are spread;
                            Where, through illumined foliage overhead,
                            Swift, bright?winged birds will flash and disappear,
                            While murmuring voices from the leaves I hear,
                            Repeating all my heart in secret said.
                        
                        
                            Not there I dwell, and yet my home is there;
                            Those flower?grown paths I trod, a lonely child,
                            Breathing with simple joy the fragrant air:
                            Lured on by half?seen beauty even then,
                            With restless feet I roamed from hill to glen,
                            By gleaming birds, by whispering leaves beguiled.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        MORNING TWILIGHT.
                        
                            THERE is a time, when all the heart is dumb,
                            Too tired for dread of ill, or hope of good;
                            When o’er dull brain and heavy eyelids brood
                            Shades of dead grief, endured and overcome,
                            Whose ghostly presence lingering doth benumb
                            The constant soul, that gazed with hardihood
                            On living evil: in this twilight mood
                            Even the sun and wind are wearisome.
                        
                        
                            Yet is their flickering strife but joy begun;
                            For e’en the spectral shades grow faintly bright,
                            Like night?born mist, half kindled by the sun:
                            Then shut not out the breeze, nor bar the light;
                            Full noon shall glow for him, who will not shun
                            Heaven’s dazzling joy?break, though tears cloud his
                                sight.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        SEMELE.
                        
                            FOR her who loves a God, all hope must die
                            Of sweet familiar joys, that daily move
                            A woman’s soul; of gentle cares, that prove
                            Her free devotion; of the answering eye,
                            Where speaks the heart, and hears each mute reply:
                            Yes, these and more she lacks; yet far above
                            That earthly home, expands her heaven of love,
                            And he she worships glows in sea and sky.
                        
                        
                            She whom the Sun has wooed—for whom his rays
                            Have shone but once, unclouded—well may wait
                            Through blackest night; her hope is one with fate:
                            Let me behold thee, Zeus! Dispel the haze
                            That shields too tenderly my mortal sight:
                            If life be darkness, let it cease in light.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE PRIEST’S PRAYER.
                        
                            HAVE pity, Lord! Let me not die alone!
                            Though once I dared my fellow?souls to shrive,
                            I am unclean; with pangs of death I
                                strive.
                            Alas, what healing balm to me was known
                            For every heart that made its fevered moan!
                            But now that I am sick, who shall
                                revive
                            My hopeless faith, or save my soul alive,
                            Since that elixir fails, which was mine own?
                        
                        
                            Spirit of God, Who dwellest e’en in me,
                            Who speakest even by this doubtful breath,
                            Whether for good or ill Thou set me free,
                            Withhold not Truth, although its price be Death:
                            I faint, I die, in scorching plains accurst,
                            Let me drink hemlock, if it slake my thirst!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        WEARINESS.
                        
                            TELL me no more, I must not fear to die;
                            Ye waste your words; not death, but life I dread:
                            Oh, to be numbered with the tranquil dead!
                            For I am tired; I do but crave to lie
                            Under the turf; only for rest I cry;
                            And yet ye bid me turn my weary head,
                            And on the scroll that hangs beside my bed
                            Read of another life, a home on high.
                        
                        
                            ’Tis strange to think I once had power to cope
                            With those who hate the Christ, and scorn His word;
                            Sore were my wounds; my triumphs, oh, how few!
                            But now, at last, my prayer for sleep is heard:
                            Forgive me, Lord! Thy promises are true,
                            And yet I have not strength enough to hope.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE AGNOSTIC’S PSALM.
                        
                            OH Thou, who art the life of heaven and earth,
                            Eternal Substance of all things that seem;
                            Or but the glorious phantom of a dream
                            That in the brain of mortal man has birth:
                            To know that Thou dost live were little worth,
                            Not knowing Thee; yet oft the heart will deem
                            That through its inmost deeps Thy light doth stream
                            Bestowing peace for grief, calm joy for mirth.
                        
                        
                            E’en thus rich music enters tuneless ears,
                            Tuneless, and all untrained by ordered notes;
                            Yet its ethereal essence inward floats,
                            And mingling with the secret source of tears,
                            Awhile endues the spirit’s wistful sight
                            With dim perceptions of unknown delight.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        TO AMY, ON RECEIVING HER PHOTOGRAPH.
                        
                            WHEN of some lovely landscape unforgot
                            A shadowy sketch I see, my thought divines
                            Clear sunshine gleaming through the pencilled lines
                            And cool green shade, where seems a shapeless blot:
                            I know how morning pierced that sheltered grot,
                            How noonday glowed between the tufted pines:
                            And even so, your cold grey portrait shines
                            With tints unseen by those who know you not.
                        
                        
                            They cannot see the apple?blossom cheek,
                            The eyes of midnight blue, the sun?lit hair;
                            Grave are the lips, and will not smile or speak:
                            And yet to me the pictured face is fair:
                            I conned that May?tide bloom when last we met,
                            And all the eye saw then, the heart sees yet.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        STARLIGHT. I.
                        
                            NIGHT works like Time: hushed is the busy street;
                            Grey are the walls, whose yet untarnished red
                            Glared in the sun; for shadows overspread
                            All hues of earth, that wearied eyes may meet
                            The restful heavens; that mortal hearts may greet
                            Eternal truth: while darksome paths I tread,
                            The light of other worlds is round me shed,
                            The glow of distant æons guides my feet.
                        
                        
                            The silent stars my ecstasy control;
                            No daring hopes, no awe?struck fears intrude
                            Upon the calm rejoicing of the soul:
                            From sun to sun, from age to age I climb,
                            Until for Space I see Infinitude,
                            And feel Eternity, where was but Time.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        STARLIGHT. II.
                        
                            MAN needs no dread unwonted Avatar
                            The secrets of the heavenly host to show;
                            From waves of light, their lustrous founts we know,
                            For every gleaming band and shadowed bar
                            Is fraught with homelike tidings from afar;
                            Each ripple, starting long decades ago,
                            Pulsing to earth its blue or golden glow,
                            Beats with the life of some immortal star.
                        
                        
                            A life to each minutest atom given—
                            Whether it find in Man’s own heart a place,
                            Or past the suns, in unimagined space—
                            That Earth may know herself a part of Heaven,
                            And see, wherever sun or spark is lit,
                            One Law, one Life, one Substance infinite.
                        
                    
                        
                
            
            
            
                
                    
                    TRANSLATIONS.
                    
                    
                        THE KNIGHT OF TOGGENBURG.
                        From the German of Schiller.
                        
                            “KNIGHT, with sister’s love for brother,
                            Dear to me thou art:
                            Take this love, and ask no other,
                            For it grieves my heart:
                            Calmly coming, calmly going,
                            Welcome shouldst thou be,
                            But these tears, in silence flowing,
                            These are strange to me.”
                        
                        
                            To his bosom, dumbly aching,
                            Wild the maid he wrings,
                            Then away in anguish breaking
                            On his charger springs;
                            
                            From their mountains, where they tarry,
                            Calls his Switzers brave;
                            On their breast the Cross they carry
                            To the Holy Grave.
                        
                        
                            Wondrous deeds that host undaunted
                            Have in fight performed,
                            Every helmet’s plume has flaunted
                            Where the foemen swarmed;
                            Toggenburg, that name victorious,
                            Frights the Moslem train,
                            But his heart, ’mid triumphs glorious,
                            Is not healed from pain.
                        
                        
                            He has borne a year of sorrow,
                            Now can bear no more,
                            Wins no respite, night or morrow,
                            Rides from camp to shore;
                            Sees a ship, with canvas flying,
                            Joppa’s haven leaves,
                            Home to that dear country hieing
                            Where her bosom heaves.
                        
                        
                        
                            Now the pilgrim nears her castle,
                            Now his knock is heard;
                            Woe! ’tis opened by a vassal
                            With the thunder?word—
                            “She you seek, to God is given,
                            Veiled before Him bows,
                            Yestermorn the bride of Heaven
                            Sealed her marriage vows.”
                        
                        
                            Now his father’s castle never
                            Shall receive its lord,
                            Faithful steed he leaves for ever,
                            Helm, and lance, and sword;
                            From the Toggenburg down?stealing,
                            Tells to none his name,
                            ’Neath a gown of hair concealing
                            His majestic frame.
                        
                        
                            And a little hut he raises
                            Looking towards the glade
                            Where the convent darkly gazes
                            From the linden shade:
                            
                            Waiting from the morn’s first blushing
                            Till the sunset shone,
                            Silent hope his features flushing,
                            Sat he there alone,
                        
                        
                            Towards the convent gazing, yearning,
                            Kept for hours his watch,
                            To his loved one’s window turning,
                            Till she clinked the latch,
                            Till the face and form entrancing
                            From the window smiled,
                            Downward o’er the valley glancing,
                            Peaceful, angel?mild.
                        
                        
                            Now rejoicing, healed from sadness,
                            Down to sleep he lay,
                            Woke again with quiet gladness
                            At the dawn of day:
                            So he sat for many a morrow,
                            Kept for years his watch,
                            Waiting mutely, void of sorrow,
                            Till she clinked the latch,
                        
                        
                        
                            Till the face and form entrancing
                            From the window smiled,
                            Downward o’er the valley glancing,
                            Peaceful, angel?mild.
                            So he sat, when morning’s brightness
                            Dead and cold he met,
                            With a face of placid whiteness,
                            Towards her window set.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE MAIDEN’S LAMENT.
                        From the German of Schiller.
                        
                            THE oak?wood murmurs,
                            The sky clouds o’er,
                            The maiden paces
                            The grassy shore;
                            The billows are breaking with might, with might,
                            And she sighs aloud in the gloomy night;
                            Her eyes all heavy with sadness:
                        
                        
                            “The heart is broken,
                            The world is void,
                            With empty pleasures
                            My soul is cloyed;
                            Thou Holy One, summon thy child above;
                            I have lived my life, I have loved my love,
                            And revelled in earthly gladness.”
                        
                        
                        
                            “The tears that thou weepest
                            All vainly are shed,
                            No power hath thy plaining
                            To waken the dead;
                            But tell me, what comforts and gladdens the heart
                            When the joys of sweet Love must for ever depart;
                            I, the Holy One, bend to thy crying.”
                        
                        
                            “Let the tears I am weeping
                            All vainly be shed,
                            Let my plaining be powerless
                            To waken the dead:
                            The sweetest delight for the sorrowful heart
                            When the joys of bright Love must for ever depart,
                            Is Love’s own weeping and sighing.”
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE SHARING OF EARTH.
                        From the German of Schiller.
                        
                            “TAKE ye the world,” cried Zeus from Heaven’s height,
                            “Ye sons of men! I give it all to you,
                            A heritage in everlasting right;
                            Now share the gift, as brethren do.”
                        
                        
                            Then hasted every hand to grasp its gain,
                            And young or old, each claimed his share of good;
                            Soon clutched the Husbandman his golden grain;
                            The Squire rode hunting through the wood;
                        
                        
                            The Merchant bustled, till his wares were stowed;
                            The Abbot chose him generous cobwebbed wine;
                            The Monarch barred the river and the road,
                            Crying, “The tenth of all is mine.”
                        
                        
                        
                            Late, when the last had long received his share,
                            The Poet came, from regions far and dim;
                            Too late! each heritage had found an heir,
                            And nought, alas! was left for him.
                        
                        
                            “Ah, woe is me! Of all thy sons, shall I,
                            The truest, be forgotten?I alone?”
                            Loud to the ears of Zeus he sent his cry,
                            And threw himself before the throne.
                        
                        
                            “Nay, if in dreamland thou wert pleased to hide,”
                            Rejoined the God, “accuse thyself, not me;
                            Where, while they portioned Earth, didst thou
                                abide?”
                            “I was,” the Poet said, “with thee.
                                    ”
                                     
                                
                        
                        
                            “Mine eye was fixed on thy celestial face,
                            Mine ear upon the harmonies of Heaven;
                            If, by thy light entranced, I lost my place
                            On Earth, oh, be the fault forgiven!”
                        
                        
                            “What help?” said Zeus: “the Earth is given away,
                            Mart, greenwood, harvest, these no more are mine;
                            But, if thou be content with me to stay,
                            Come when thou wilt, a home in Heaven is thine
                                    .
                                     
                                
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        COMFORT IN TEARS.
                        From the German of Goethe.
                        
                            WHY art thou sad, when all around
                            So gay and bright appears?
                            For plainly in thine eyes are seen
                            The traces of thy tears.
                        
                        
                            “And if I wept in solitude
                            The grief is mine alone,
                            And with the tears that sweetly streamed,
                            More light my heart has grown.”
                        
                        
                            Come, let us clasp thee in our arms,
                            Thy joyous comrades say;
                            And there, whatever thou hast lost,
                            Weep thy regrets away.
                        
                        
                            “Ye brawl and bluster, dreaming not
                            The secret of my pain;
                            My grief is not that I have lost,
                            But that I long in vain.”
                        
                        
                        
                            Spring boldly up; for thou art young,
                            With speed thy task begin;
                            Thine is the age of daring deeds,
                            And strength to strive and win.
                        
                        
                            “Ah no! ’tis what I cannot win,
                            From me ’tis all too far;
                            It dwells as high, it gleams as bright,
                            As shineth yonder star.”
                        
                        
                            We do not long to reach the stars,
                            But glory in their light,
                            And gaze to heaven in ecstasy
                            Each fair and cloudless night.
                        
                        
                            “I, too, look up in ecstasy,
                            By day my watch I keep,
                            Then let we weep the nights away
                            While I have heart to weep.”
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE WANDERER’S NIGHT SONG.
                        From the German of Goethe.
                        THOU, who Heaven’s angel art,
                        Thou, who pain and sorrow stillest,
                        And the doubly mournful heart
                        With a double comfort fillest!
                        Ah, what weary days I number!
                        Why this sad or gay unrest?
                        Sweetest slumber
                        Come, oh come, to calm my breast
                                .
                                 
                            
                    
                    
                    
                        EVENING.
                        From the German of Goethe.
                        
                            O’ER every mountain height
                            Slumber broods,
                            Scarcely a zephyr light
                            Stirs in the woods
                            One leafy crest;
                            The song?bird sleeps on the bough.
                            Wait a little, and thou,
                            Thou too, shalt rest.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        BURY THE DEAD THOU LOVEST.
                        From the German of Carl Siebel.
                        
                            BURY the dead thou lovest,
                            Deep, deep within thy heart;
                            So shall they live and love thee
                            Till Life and thou shall part.
                        
                        
                            So for their risen spirits
                            Thy breast a heaven shall be;
                            Like angels, pure and shining,
                            They go through life with thee.
                        
                        
                            Bury the life thou livest
                            Deep in another’s heart;
                            So shalt thou live belovëd
                            When dead and cold thou art.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        SPRING.
                        From the German of Ernst Schulze.
                        
                            OH come, sweet Spring, thy budding flowers unfold;
                            Within the woods awake the song?bird’s lay,
                            And gloriously adorn thy kingdom gay
                            With light, perfume, and clouds beflecked with gold.
                            All trees shall chant in Love’s own murmurous tone,
                            With Love the stream shall sing, the forest glow:
                            My heart, perchance, that home of midnight woe,
                            Circled with joy, shall deem that joy its own.
                        
                        
                            Alas for me! Why sadly, mutely look
                            After long?vanished beams, that once were bright?
                            Why call in vain the ghosts of days more fair?
                            She who from out my life all gladness took,
                            From Springtide, too, has stolen Love’s delight,
                            And nothing left, save only Love’s despair.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE RUINED MILL.
                        From the German of Julius Sturm.
                        
                            THE moon is newly risen,
                            I wander through the vale;
                            My dreaming eyes are spell?bound
                            By radiance sad and pale.
                        
                        
                            Behind the mill she rises;
                            I watch her silver shield,
                            And in my heart burst open
                            The wounds I thought were healed.
                        
                        
                            Long since, the wheels have mouldered,
                             And roof and door are gone;
                            Babbling of days departed
                             The glittering stream flows on.
                        
                        
                            The moon has sunk in darkness,
                             The wind is blowing cold;
                            Dead is the miller’s daughter,
                            And I am grey and old.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE FIR?TREE.
                        From the German of Luise von Ploennies.
                        
                            HIGH on that hill thou seest
                            A single fir?tree stand;
                            I sit there every morning
                            And gaze across the land.
                        
                        
                            The stork comes flying swiftly,
                            The field with flowers is gay;
                            But into the world, my sweetheart
                            Has travelled far away.
                        
                        
                            And roses bloom in the garden,
                            And they cut the ripened grain;
                            And still I wait for my sweetheart,
                            He yet may come again.
                        
                        
                            And the leaves have grown so golden,
                            The leaves have grown so red;
                            And if my sweetheart will not come,
                            I would that I were dead!
                        
                        
                        
                            Oh why hast thou, green fir?tree,
                            No red and gold array?
                            Oh, fiery love within me,
                            Why dost thou burn for aye?
                        
                        
                            Oh, fir?tree, dark?green fir?tree,
                            Why art thou not sere and old?
                            Oh, fiery heart within me,
                            When, when wilt thou be cold?
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE WELL.
                        From the German of Paul Heyse.
                        
                            YES, wayward girl, be cold and shy,
                            From morn till eve lock up thy heart;
                            The flashing lustre of thine eye
                            Must still betray how rich thou art.
                        
                        
                            That legendary tale they tell
                            Comes back, while thus I gaze and think:
                            In some old city lay a well,
                            Whose virgin waters none might drink.
                        
                        
                            So deep, so fathomless a well
                            So wondrous deep, that when they let
                            A pitcher down, for hours it fell,
                            And had not reached the bottom yet.
                        
                        
                            A minstrel, wandering through the land,
                            Espied it, as he passed along;
                            He took his fiddle in his hand,
                            And played a tune and sang a song.
                        
                        
                        
                            And hark! a sound unwonted here,
                            A rising, rushing, surging, splashing,
                            Of water sweet, and cool, and clear,
                            High over the brim exuberant dashing
                        
                        
                            The minstrel drank a joyous draught,
                            And all the neighbours shared his glee:
                            What boundless bliss must he have quaffed,
                            Whose voice could set the fountain free!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        AN EVENING SONG.
                        From the German of Rückert.
                        
                            I STOOD upon the mountain
                            Before the sun had set,
                            And saw how o’er the forest
                            Hung evening’s golden net.
                        
                        
                            Earth was bedewed with slumber,
                            Shed from the clouded sky,
                            And all the bells of even
                            Sang Nature’s lullaby.
                        
                        
                            I said—Oh heart, acknowledge
                            The sleep of earth and air,
                            And with the meadow’s children,
                            Rest thou from all thy care.
                        
                        
                            For all the little blossoms
                            Their eyelids gently close,
                            And with a softer motion
                            The streamlet’s current flows.
                        
                        
                        
                            And now the sylph, grown weary,
                            Under a leaf doth hide;
                            The dragon?fly, dew?sprinkled,
                            Sleeps at the river?side.
                        
                        
                            Now in his rose?leaf cradle
                            The golden beetle rocks;
                            Back to the fold are hasting
                            The shepherd and his flocks.
                        
                        
                            The lark flies earthward, seeking
                            His clover?shaded nest,
                            And in the wood’s recesses
                            Lie hart and doe at rest.
                        
                        
                            And he who has a cottage
                            There to his rest has lain,
                            And he who lives in exile,
                            In dreams goes home again.
                        
                        
                            An eager yearning fills me:
                            In vain I long to climb
                            Up to my own true country
                            By mountain paths of time.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        MY ONLY ONE.
                        From the German of J. G. Fischer.
                        
                            THOU knowest well, that thou art all I have;
                            Oh, do not turn thy lovely eyes from me,
                            When of the joys of love I speak to thee;
                            For thou art all I have.
                        
                        
                            Thou knowest well, that thou art all I have;
                            Why wilt thou envying on the blossoms look,
                            Withered too soon, and drifting down the brook?
                            Since thou art all I have.
                        
                        
                            Thou knowest well, that thou art all I have;
                            But oh, I feel that thou wilt soon depart,
                            And leave in loneliness this mournful heart
                            Though thou art all I have.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        FAREWELL.
                        From the German of Emmanuel Geibel.
                        
                            ONE goblet more I drink to thee,
                            Thou fair and foreign strand;
                            No sadder could this parting be
                            Wert thou my native land.
                        
                        
                            Farewell, farewell! The sails are spread,
                            The wind blows fresh and free;
                            Its trail of foam the keel has led
                            Along the deep?green sea.
                        
                        
                            Now sinks the sun ’mid islets fair,
                            And rose?red shines the sky;
                            ’Twas in the hut that glimmers there
                            We said our last good?bye.
                        
                        
                            And oh! how gladly would I stay,
                            Thou lovely child, with thee!
                            In vain! the vision fades away
                            That was so fair to see.
                        
                        
                        
                            For this is life—to come, to go,
                            To haste o’er sea and shore,
                            The joys of rest awhile to know,
                            Then part for evermore.
                        
                        
                            Loved for a time, forgotten quite,
                            But mutely loving yet—
                            Is it the dazzling sunset light
                            That makes my eyes so wet?
                        
                        
                            ’Tis past! I dash the tear away,
                            And joy with grief has flown;
                            This restless heart, where’er I stray,
                            Must beat henceforth alone.
                        
                        
                            Well, be it so! Far o’er the main
                            The moon’s first ray is bright;
                            The coast recedes—Yet once again,
                            My little maid, good?night!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE BETTER WORLD.
                        From the German of Hieronymus Lorm.
                        
                            WHO lives by thought or by belief
                            Finds in the World a home of pain,
                            But when Religion’s might is vain
                            Reason is strong to vanquish grief
                        
                        
                            Religion, in deep midnight furled,
                            A better World but prophesies;
                            Reason, with clear and open eyes,
                            Is in itself a better World.
                        
                    
                        
                
            
            
            
                
                    
                    A MODERN APOSTLE.
                    
                    
                        A MODERN APOSTLE.
                        
                            I.
                            
                                A GARRET room, outlooking on dull streets;
                                A bed, a chair or two, a half?starved fire;
                                A little table, with a lamp, and sheets
                                Of printed proofs, and many a written quire;
                                Bending o’er these, as though they held the sweets
                                Of Power or Wisdom, one in mean attire;
                                A slender youth, with sallow mobile face,
                                Quick, dark?browed, nervous—sure, of Celtic race.
                            
                            
                                You cry, “A common picture!” Look again—
                                A massive forehead shades the features thin;
                                The deep?set eyes are like stilettos twain,
                                That might transfix a heart grown hard with sin,
                                Or pierce a clean?edged wound through skull and brain,
                                A pathway for the Truth to enter in:
                                What strange bright soul inspires that body frail?
                                Hear if you will, and know young Alan’s tale:
                            
                            
                            
                                He was the prophet of a little sect
                                Which deemed itself a plot of favoured ground,
                                A nursery?garden for the Lord’s elect,
                                Rich?soiled, high?walled, and sentinelled around
                                By angel?bands so keenly circumspect
                                They challenged every wind of dubious sound,
                                And quarantined the sunbeams, lest afloat
                                In any ray should lurk some poison?mote.
                            
                            
                                And Alan, nurtured from his infant years
                                To be a Levite, holy to the Lord,
                                Took up the ark of God with reverent fears,
                                And girded on the spiritual sword;
                                He would not flinch before Philistine jeers,
                                Nor take the Babylonish spoils abhorred,
                                Clean would he keep his soul, pure from the stain
                                Of thought, of earthly love, of lore profane.
                            
                            
                                Alas! not every saint can quite disown
                                Those two unsaintly organs, brain and heart,
                                Nor dwell upon a pedestal of stone
                                Until he grow the pillar’s counterpart;
                                Nor can he by long prayers and fasts atone
                                For unregenerate virtues—the black art
                                Of feeling and of thought is ne’er unlearned,
                                And spirits come, although the books be burned.
                            
                            
                            
                                Poor Alan, with the Gael in his hot blood,
                                And that insatiate mind, which rather durst
                                Plunge and be drowned in the full tidal flood
                                Of human wisdom, than live on athirst—
                                Ah! how could he, though bred from babyhood
                                To deem what most he craved a thing accurst,
                                Dwell in a land of streams innumerous,
                                And pine a self?afflicted Tantalus?
                            
                            
                                A second?hand bookstall was his fatal tree
                                Of knowledge, bearing divers kinds of fruit:
                                Peaches soft?rinded, melting lusciously,
                                Yet bitter?flavoured; on another shoot
                                Ruddy?cheeked apples, innocent to see,
                                But yielding potent cider; from one root,
                                It seemed, grew stimulants and anodynes,
                                Green opium capsules, and rich?clustered vines.
                            
                            
                                Here Alan read; at first, the guilt of reading
                                Weighed on his conscience; he would toss all
                                    night,
                                Praying the Holy Ghost to grant him leading,
                                And quell or quench this lawless appetite;
                                And then for days from that unhallowed feeding
                                Would hold aloof, till in his own despite
                                He turned unthinking down the accustomed street—
                                The serpent tempted him, and he did eat.
                            
                            
                            
                                Soon he waxed bolder; could it be a crime
                                To learn how men with spirit overcast
                                Doubted, and told their doubts in prose or rhyme,
                                Prating of “Cosmos” or of “Protoplast”?
                                What then of Job, rash questioner sublime?
                                What of the weary throned Ecclesiast?
                                He reasoned; thus accomplishing his fall,
                                For Reason is the Sin Original.
                            
                            
                                And so at last he shut his eyes and plunged,
                                And took whate’er he found, both good and ill—
                                Pale Christianity with Christ expunged,
                                Faint Unbelief deploring its own skill,
                                Great tomes of metaphysic lore, that sponged
                                The World away, leaving the lonely Will:
                                Carlyle he conned, and—guilt of dye intenser!
                                Dallied with Darwin and with Herbert Spencer.
                            
                            
                                A thousand thoughts within his head ran riot,
                                Shunning at first his Faith, ensceptred long;
                                As Rome’s old senators, august and quiet,
                                Sat on their ivory chairs, and cowed the strong
                                Victorious Gauls, as by a speechless fiat
                                Divine; till one of that barbarian throng
                                Stroked a grey beard; the answering blow began
                                The slaughter; weak wrath proved the god but man.
                            
                            
                            
                                And thus, when Alan’s Faith, by touches rude
                                Disturbed, in angry tone began to speak,
                                And let the invading spirits know how crude
                                She was in wit, in argument how weak,
                                What marvel that the unbaptizëd brood
                                Taunted and mocked, and smote her on the cheek,
                                Cast her to earth, discrowned her reverend head,
                                And left her bleeding, senseless, well?nigh dead?
                            
                            
                                Yet still she was not slain, and Alan grieved,
                                And fain had stanched her wounds and set the
                                    crown
                                On her scarred forehead, and again believed;
                                But Reason came and stayed him with a frown,
                                Saying, “Why crave and yearn to be deceived?
                                She who lies low deserved to be cast down;
                                ’Tis Nature’s mandate—to the puny rival
                                Defeat and death: to the more fit, survival.”
                            
                            
                                Yet many times poor wounded Faith uprose,
                                But each time paler, fainter, freshly maimed,
                                And stronger and more valiant grew her foes,
                                Their skill more sure, their strokes more truly
                                    aimed;
                                Till tortured Alan, reft of all repose,
                                Plagued night and day by fiery thoughts untamed,
                                Sought, not the Deity on sapphire throne
                                Circled with elders; but a God Unknown.
                            
                            
                            
                                It was a broken prayer, a wild appeal;
                                He spoke aloud, nor knew what words he said.
                                He did not clasp his hands, or bend, or kneel,
                                But paced the room with quick uneven tread,
                                Now hurrying in the tumult of his zeal,
                                Now halting, with a pang of sudden dread,
                                And now he seemed, with fixed gaze, to invoke
                                Some present Power: and these strange words he spoke:
                            
                            
                                “My God! whether thou be my Father too,
                                The Father who willed not to take from Christ
                                That bitter cup, but rather to renew
                                His strength to suffer and be sacrificed;
                                Or whether the green earth, the heavens blue,
                                And men—kings high enthroned, slaves cheaply
                                    priced—
                                Be but thy Visions—transient thoughts and themes,
                                Which thou, the World?Soul, shadowest in thy dreams:
                            
                            
                                “My God! if thou dost hear, or if indeed
                                Thy Spirit breathes in mine, and prays this
                                    prayer—
                                Thou knowest my pain, my strife, my famished need;
                                For health, love, gladness, let the morrow care,
                                To?day I hunger for a perfect creed:
                                If I be but thy dream, in me declare
                                Some symbol of the Truth—or let me die,
                                That, fleeting, l may know the Dawn is nigh.
                            
                            
                            
                                “Is not this madness? Wherefore do I pray
                                To my own soul, and cheat myself with hope?
                                Seeking for earnest in the Cosmic play,
                                Weak victim of an Oriental trope!
                                And yet, O Truth, whom I blaspheme to?day,
                                Because with doubt and dread I scarce may cope,
                                Reveal thyself, and let thy sole word be—
                                ‘Leave all, take up thy cross, and follow me!’”
                            
                            
                                His deep eyes shone with rapture as he bade
                                To Love and Faith, for Hope’s dear sake, adieu:
                                He owned no “great possessions;” but he had
                                Home, friends, a pittance, and from hearers few
                                Credence devout; though some looked shrewd and sad,
                                And shook their heads, and whispered that he drew
                                His doctrines from vile books of Babylon,
                                By scoffers, named Carlyle and Emerson.
                            
                            
                                Little he cared in that ecstatic hour
                                For friendly or for hostile tongues and pens;
                                Let the grim Orthodox be starched and sour,
                                The dull beasts growl morosely in their dens!
                                He felt but his own spirit’s fervent power,
                                Which—by his thought as by a crystal lens
                                Converged and focussed in one burning spot—
                                Imaged that Sun, which mortal eyes see not.
                            
                            
                            
                                A wondrous Vision rose before his sight—
                                The Earth in all her glory; flowers and trees;
                                Purple?robed mountain?ranges, every height
                                Gleaming like gold; rich meadows; boundless seas,
                                That changed from sapphire to green chrysolite
                                And topaz; in the land and ocean breeze
                                Life’s voices murmured; scale and fur and wing
                                Bright glistened; while Man trod, apparent king.
                            
                            
                                But as he looked, there passed a stormful cloud
                                Athwart the sun, and wakened fiery strife
                                In heaven; he heard the waves roar, and the loud
                                Thunders; then deeper gazing, saw how life
                                Preyed upon life; how men, ruthless and proud,
                                Destroyed their fellow?men with club and knife
                                And fire?brand; or by deadlier arms, and fraud
                                Refined, and smooth hypocrisy unawed.
                            
                            
                                Yet in the stained Earth and the darkened Sun,
                                He saw, by some revealing miracle,
                                The Eternal Power which makes the Many, One,
                                Shining through all; the Law made visible:
                                As though this embryo world had just begun
                                To quicken with the shaping Principle
                                Which silently prepares its robe of youth
                                A body all translucent to the Truth.
                            
                            
                            
                                Then came a Voice—“Behold what thou hast sought
                                So long; thyself, and Nature’s Self, behold!
                                Thou couldst not spend thy prayers and tears for nought,
                                By human pain my Being I unfold;
                                I am the end and essence of thy thought,
                                The life of all new creeds and symbols old;
                                I rule in star and atom; all mankind
                                Work out my purpose in their battlings blind.
                            
                            
                                “But thou, whose eyes are opened; who dost see
                                Thy true Soul, and yet livest—thou, rejoice!
                                Go forth into the world and speak of me;
                                I choose thee from all men by thine own choice;
                                In evil and in good, in bond and free
                                I live, and utter truth in every voice;
                                Each sings his few faint notes of joy and woe,
                                Only my Prophets the full concord know.”
                            
                            
                                The Voice passed, and the Vision, and gave place
                                To darkness and deep silence, as of death;
                                And the young mystic fell upon his face,
                                Scarce his heart beat, and scarce he drew his
                                    breath:
                                This glorious message to the human race,
                                Unknown to ancient seers, who cried, “Thus saith
                                The Lord,” held all his sense and soul entranced,
                                While the hours fled, night deepened, morn advanced.
                            
                            
                            
                                He felt as one who, having grasped the whole
                                Of his desire, may rest; he seemed estranged
                                From realms of Space, and freed from Time’s control,
                                Pure Spirit; not from dream to dream he ranged,
                                Nor prayed, nor hoped, nor pondered; for his soul
                                Was all concentred in one thought unchanged:
                                Till slowly he awoke, when dawn was near,
                                Mortal again; but God’s anointed seer.
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            II.
                            
                                SMALL, fragile, and dark?eyed was Alan’s mother,
                                Of Highland blood; her solemn Saxon mate
                                Had ne’er been able quite to quench or smother
                                The poet?flame within her breast innate;
                                She had been wont, to Alan and no other,
                                Strange tales of wraith and kelpie to relate,
                                And wondrous legends of the second sight,
                                Claimed by her race as its ancestral right.
                            
                            
                                She told her tales in rapid whispers, sitting
                                Over the fire, with changeful glances wild,
                                And quick dramatic hands, that wove unwitting
                                A spiritual garment for her child,
                                Who all the while, his bright eyes never quitting
                                Her face, beside her crouched, enrapt, beguiled:
                                But these were secret pleasures: when she heard
                                A slow step, hushed was the half?spoken word
                            
                            
                            
                                For Alan’s father, tall, large?boned, and grim,
                                Considered works of fiction merely lies,
                                And banned all poetry except the hymn;
                                His creed forbade him earthly gifts to prize,
                                Calling mirth, folly—love, a sinful whim:
                                Such faith at once contracts and satisfies
                                The constant soul; that one ideal spark
                                Shows all the world around blank, cold, and dark.
                            
                            
                                Each day he opened with a prayer, and singing;
                                The prayer a little sermon in disguise,
                                Teaching the Lord His own designs, and slinging
                                Smooth pebbles at unwise and overwise;
                                The hymn was loud, aggressive, as though flinging
                                Contemptuous pearls to neighbours or to spies;
                                Like a big drum he sang, beat with small skill;
                                Alan, more low; the mother, clear and shrill.
                            
                            
                                That morning, Alan sang with fervour double;
                                His inner exaltation overbore
                                All sad presentiment of toil and trouble
                                And severance of old friendships, and welled o’er
                                In natural song: the hymn said, “Life’s a bubble,
                                A wave that breaks in foam upon the shore,
                                A fading leaf:” but Alan’s voice rang out
                                As though its burden were a triumph?shout.
                            
                            
                            
                                And after prayer, and hymn, and frugal meal,
                                He spoke, and all his glorious Vision told;
                                At first with painful strivings to reveal
                                His secret heart: but soon he grew more bold,
                                And e’en his father’s look could not congeal
                                His ardour; as the petrifying cold
                                That binds the dull stream, Winter’s prisoned vagrant,
                                Freezes not generous wine, nor ether fragrant.
                            
                            
                                The old man heard with bony brows drawn down,
                                And keen eyes watchful, and thin lips compressed;
                                The anxious mother shivered at his frown,
                                And trembled for her son, yet unconfessed
                                Shared in the new belief; she plucked her gown
                                With nervous fingers, while her loving breast
                                Was rent with fear, and hope, and awe?struck joy
                                That Heaven had found a Prophet in her boy.
                            
                            
                                The story ended; then with look austere,
                                And speech deliberate, calm, the father spoke:
                                “I understand you well; your words are clear;
                                You fain would cast away the ancient yoke,
                                Renounce the Lord of Hosts, whom devils fear
                                And angels worship; and, forsooth, invoke
                                Some newer God, who dwells in rogue and thief,
                                Yet speaks by you, of his apostles chief.
                            
                            
                            
                                “Call on your Baal! Try what he can do—
                                Surely he is a god, though he begins
                                With blasphemy—doubt not—your course pursue;
                                Shout, leap, and wound your soul, till suffering
                                    wins
                                Success; and then remember, that while you
                                Are feasting, I am fasting for my sins,
                                And wishing Heaven had blotted out the morn
                                On which a man?child to the world was born.”
                            
                            
                                He broke off with a sob; Alan, aghast
                                At such emotion, hastened to his side,
                                Crying, “My father!” But he roughly cast
                                His son away, with gestures that defied
                                Sorrow and pity, and in silence passed
                                Out from the house, in his unbending pride
                                That did brave battle with a love and grief
                                More deep than aught except his stern belief.
                            
                            
                                And now the son and mother, each to each
                                The best?loved thing on earth, were left alone;
                                Then on his knees beside her, without speech
                                He fell, and took her cold hands in his own;
                                And she, all trembling, weeping the new breach
                                Between her dear ones, spoke in faintest tone,
                                Pleadingly, brokenly, as though she prayed
                                For grace, that some hard sentence might be stayed.
                            
                            
                            
                                “My Alan, my dear son! my heart will break—
                                Although I always knew that God would send
                                His Spirit—that some morning you would wake
                                And feel that strength was granted you to spend
                                In some great service—only, for my sake
                                And for your father’s, wait a little—bend
                                Awhile, before his anger—who can tell?
                                This wrathful mood may pass—he loves you well.”
                            
                            
                                But he replied, “My mother, tempt me not!
                                For you I would do all things—all, save this—
                                Nay, I could wish my father’s wish, to blot
                                My hour of birth, rather than idly miss
                                My birthright: grieve you that my zeal is hot?
                                You taught me, by your songs, your tales, your
                                    kiss
                                That human love, that heed of Wisdom’s ray,
                                By which the heavenly Voice I now obey.
                            
                            
                                “Ah, do not weep, dear mother! Even those
                                Who cast me forth, shall hear the Word divine;
                                To?morrow, in the face of friends and foes,
                                My charge, once held so dear, I must resign—
                                But weep not!” He embraced her and arose
                                And went forth, that the April sun might shine
                                Into his heart, and quiet grief and wrath
                                And exultation, and make plain his path.
                            
                            
                            
                                ’Twas in an English town that Alan dwelt,
                                A town marked Liberal both by creeds and votes,
                                Where every individual voice did melt
                                In the loud hum of Progress; jarring notes
                                Of small exclusive sects were merely felt
                                Like nettle?stings when dock?leaf antidotes
                                Are plenteous; there, the party?leader’s cue
                                Was to hope all things, and believe a few.
                            
                            
                                Turning a corner sharply, Alan met
                                George, an old school?mate, strong in politics,
                                Ruddy and fair, short?statured and thick?set,
                                Well versed in all the rhetorician’s tricks;
                                An eye he had that you could ne’er forget,
                                Blue, humorous, clear; not steady to transfix
                                The erring, but most skilful to detect
                                A meeting’s mood, and watch a word’s effect.
                            
                            
                                “’Tis you!” he cried—” we have not met for long;
                                In truth, I wonder you are still alive,
                                Pacing your treadmill round with weary song,
                                Seeking rich honey in a dronish hive,
                                Boring deep wells Artesian in the wrong
                                Strata, whence you may dig, till you arrive
                                At the earth’s core, yet no refreshing drop
                                You find, till at the central fire you stop.
                            
                            
                            
                                “Some day, your friends will leave you in the lurch,
                                For what know you about the selfish springs
                                That move them to condemn all true research?
                                Like Gallio, I care nothing for such things—
                                And yet I care for you—I know a church
                                Where you might fearlessly unfold your wings,
                                Read, think, and labour, and perchance do good—
                                A free church, in a crowded neighbourhood.
                            
                            
                                “They want a parson now—the salary
                                Is poor, but better than your present pay;
                                And what is worse than the dull destiny
                                Of one condemned, year after year, to stay
                                Shut in a sect, and preach incessantly
                                The same old doctrines in the same old way?
                                Come forth, nor heed how bigots may abuse
                                The step—shake off their dry dust from your shoes.”
                            
                            
                                The words, though kindly meant—the flippant cavil—
                                The confident suggestions, like commands,
                                Jarred upon Alan; then, he fain would travel,
                                And scatter the good seed in many lands;
                                Yet might he not, by George’s aid, unravel
                                Present perplexities, and set his hands
                                To the Lord’s plough? And would not God enlarge
                                His field, if true he were in one small charge?
                            
                            
                            
                                Therefore he answered— “Come to?morrow night,
                                And tell me of this church—my trust I leave
                                Not for its dulness, nor for any spite
                                Against the people, who in faith receive
                                My words, and to their utmost power requite
                                My service; nay, I willingly would cleave
                                To this old home; but God has called me thence,
                                Granting me sight of his Omnipotence.”
                            
                            
                                “Well,” said the other—“so that you come out
                                I care not why. On Sunday evening, late,
                                When none of your good friends will be about,
                                And your last sermon will have fixed your fate,
                                Expect me. Now, good?bye; I have to spout
                                To?night, at a political debate,
                                And must begin to think what I shall say—
                                So, till to?morrow!” And he went his way.
                            
                            
                                Then Alan wandered far, beyond the town,
                                Past budding hedge?rows, where the spider weaves
                                Her tracery; past trees with branches brown
                                Seen through their April robe of light green
                                    leaves;
                                And past bright gardens, where the tulip?crown
                                And fruit?buds pink, are spoiled by wingëd
                                    thieves;
                                Such common sights, and the soft wind’s caress
                                Filled all his soul with strength and happiness.
                            
                            
                            
                                Farther he rambled; on through country lanes
                                And copses where the ferns their fronds unrolled,
                                And pastures where the gentle spring?tide rains
                                Jewelled anemone and marigold;
                                Thrushes and blackbirds carolled joyful strains,
                                And all things sang, in cadence manifold—
                                “Rejoice, rejoice, with bird and tree and flower!
                                Rejoice, rejoice, in plenitude of power!”
                            
                            
                                Homeward he turned, his ardent mind sincere
                                Feasting on this glad gospel; soon, ah soon!
                                The trembling mother must forget her fear,
                                The steadfast father must accept that boon
                                Dearer than rubies; all should see and hear
                                With souls undimmed, exultant in the noon
                                Of cloudless Truth; Faith, Hope, and Love, these three,
                                At last should blend in perfect trinity.
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            III.
                            
                                ALAN had preached his sermon—grave, devout,
                                Yet full of lightnings and electric shocks
                                For tender souls who reckoned even doubt
                                Less damnable than faith unorthodox;
                                Henceforth the young apostle stood without
                                Their iron gates, made fast with bars and locks,
                                Till his last banishment to realms beneath,
                                Where scoffers ever weep and gnash their teeth.
                            
                            
                                But now he sat and chatted in his room
                                With his friend George, who comfortably smoked
                                His pipe, unthinking of so dread a doom,
                                And talked in worldly tone, that half?provoked
                                Alan to wrath; yet on the tranquil fume
                                Floated kind wishes, clad in words that joked,
                                And many a scheme, by friendly warmth begot,
                                And pictures quaint of Alan’s future lot.
                            
                            
                            
                                “The people, chiefly poor and ignorant,
                                Will be a stony field for you to plough;
                                What thoughts they spare from misery and from want
                                May they be yours! But let me show you now
                                Another aspect: you will have a scant
                                Sprinkling of better hearers, to allow
                                Scope for your genius—men of moderate wealth,
                                Whose tonic for their spiritual health
                            
                            
                                “Has been to found a church where all is free,
                                The seats, the service, and the preacher’s
                                    thought,
                                Where e’en the poorest may behold the Tree
                                Of Life, and taste, and eat his fill for nought:
                                A fine idea, though such things to me
                                Are nothings: well, their cleverest member caught
                                Directly, at your name; for he had heard
                                You once, and had remembered every word.
                            
                            
                                “Their cleverest, not their richest: though he rules
                                The others, he is but a dilettante;
                                (Our thirty millions, true, are ‘mostly fools,’
                                Wisdom is rare, and men of mind are scanty!);
                                They reverence him, with faith that never cools
                                For having meant to write a book on Dante—
                                All, save his helpmate; commonplace and keen,
                                Through her sage lord her wifely eyes have seen.
                            
                            
                            
                                “Then their one daughter—did you meet her ever?
                                Slim shape, and soft brown hair, and dark?blue
                                    eyes,
                                So gentle, that you scarce believe her clever,
                                And quite entrancing, were she not so wise:
                                But oh, beware of Ella’s beauty! never
                                Let that Madonna fairness win your sighs;
                                Or, if you should address her, use your tact,
                                And study first the sciences exact.
                            
                            
                                “The heavenly host she watches from her attics,
                                She knows the name and place of every star;
                                True incarnation of Pure Mathematics,
                                She cares for all that is abstruse or far:
                                Go, woo her with Dynamics and with Statics,
                                And term your love a force molecular;
                                She then, perchance, may fathom your intention—
                                Plain language is beneath her comprehension.
                            
                            
                                “Enough of this! you are a son of God,
                                And do not haunt the daughters of the earth—
                                Yet who can tell? you are no frozen clod;
                                Perchance fair Venus, whose celestial worth
                                You long have slighted, may prepare a rod
                                To torture you, or else a cup of mirth
                                To tempt you—Well, I hope ’twill be the latter:
                                As to the church, be easy, for that matter
                            
                            
                            
                                “Is practically settled. Now, good?night,
                                And happy dreams of—whatsoe’er you choose!”
                                They parted. Alan, by the fire’s dim light
                                Long meditated on the hopeful news,
                                And felt that he unthankfully should slight
                                Heaven’s leading, could he hesitate to use
                                A proffered chance of free unfettered work,
                                Came it from Jew, or Infidel, or Turk.
                            
                            
                                And then he looked from out his window high,
                                As though the fresh night air could put to proof
                                His purity of heart: against the sky
                                Each house stood black, distinct, and each wet
                                    roof
                                Gleamed in the moonlight; tapering slenderly
                                Rose many a spire: the city seemed aloof
                                From care and toil; and said, by silence deep—
                                “Doubt not nor ponder, but in gladness sleep.”
                            
                            
                                Why should I weary the long?suffering Muse
                                And listener patient?souled, with tedious telling
                                Of letters, of official interviews,
                                Of change of ministry, and change of dwelling,
                                And how the fond proud mother wept to lose
                                Her son, and how the father’s heart was knelling
                                The death of hope, or how the elders prayed
                                In vigorous language for the renegade?
                            
                            
                            
                                Enough, that Alan found himself installed
                                In his new church, and gloried in the sense
                                Of working unimpeded, unenthralled;
                                Here was no sentinel, demanding “Whence
                                Come you, and whither go?” A town unwalled
                                Was that society, with no defence
                                Save the united force of Faith and Science—
                                In truth, a somewhat perilous alliance.
                            
                            
                                Here he proclaimed the Brotherhood of Men—
                                God lives in all; by Him are all inspired,
                                And so are equal; to the Prophet’s ken
                                The king is level with the drudge o’ertired,
                                And what he is, should seem: with tongue and pen
                                He preached Equality, until he fired
                                His people; and ere long, the novel schism
                                Was christened “Pantheistic Socialism.”
                            
                            
                                Such was his lot, when first I bade you look,
                                Kind listener, at his study, where he wrote
                                His deep thoughts in a world?convincing book;
                                But that was night—his days he would devote
                                To patient work in many a squalid nook,
                                Amid such sights and odours, as denote
                                The homes of women dulled in heart and eye,
                                Mothers of starveling babies, born to die,
                            
                            
                            
                                Or for worse fates. Such wretches he would aid
                                From his own scanty income; sometimes even
                                They ventured in to hear him, half afraid,
                                And did not understand, but felt near heaven:
                                Of motley stuff his little flock was made,
                                Rich men, poor men, and beggars, with a leaven
                                Of gentle women; but for him, the place
                                Contained but one, with sweet Madonna?face.
                            
                            
                                The blue eyes gleamed with quivering light, as though
                                Some lamp within had just begun to shine,
                                The pale cheeks flushed, as ’mid the latest snow
                                Bloom faint pink almond blossoms—welcome sign
                                Of coming Spring—he deemed this changeful glow
                                Enkindled by an intuition fine
                                That pierced through speech and symbol, ne’er content
                                Until it knew the soul of what he meant.
                            
                            
                                He watched the face on Sundays, dreamed of it
                                Through all the week; in haunts of dark distress
                                And sordid shame, he saw its beauty flit,
                                Now, for a moment, calm and passionless,
                                And now again with sudden radiance lit,
                                Like some new?born diviner consciousness
                                Evolving from completed human grace
                                The future parent of a nobler race.
                            
                            
                            
                                No Raphaelite Madonna has a brow
                                Like Ella’s, nor could e’er have learnt the use
                                Of sciences to which by voiceless vow
                                Her strength was dedicate; in themes abstruse
                                She locked herself, and scarce had craved till now
                                A truth not yielded by her life recluse;
                                As little children, miserably fed,
                                Grow faint, but are not hungry for their bread.
                            
                            
                                For she, with innocent clear sight, had found
                                That those about her merely thought of thinking,
                                And felt they ought to feel; with quick rebound
                                She drew her life away from theirs, and shrinking
                                From windy verbiage, craved some solid ground,
                                Trying to satisfy her soul by linking
                                Truths abstract; no vague talk of liberal views
                                Can alter cosine and hypotenuse.
                            
                            
                                Her mother, with shrewd mind of meaner class
                                Laughed inly, when she heard some “thinker” draw
                                The wonted music from his sounding brass,
                                Showing that with approval Christ foresaw
                                This nineteenth century of steam and gas,
                                And Mammon, and “Inexorable Law,”
                                Or wresting from St. Paul a strong opinion
                                In favour of the theory Darwinian.
                            
                            
                            
                                But Ella grieved; her father’s lucubration
                                On Dante (which, in sooth, till Doomsday comes
                                Shall never be writ down)—the declamation
                                Of pseudo?scientific Chrysostoms
                                Rejoiced her not; she gained a reputation
                                For gentle chillness; and, since nought benumbs
                                The heart so much as when our friends suppose
                                It cold, poor Ella slowly, sadly froze.
                            
                            
                                Yet Ella was a woman, and the frost
                                Bound not her inmost nature; still she kept
                                The natural love for children; she had lost
                                A baby sister once, and when she slept
                                Often the little child’s white image crossed
                                Her dreams, and nearer stole to her, and crept
                                Close to her heart; then, piercing through her sleep
                                Remembrance thrilled, and she would wake and weep.
                            
                            
                                When Alan came, at first she only smiled
                                At his fresh ardour; yet she oft would check
                                Her satire; for he seemed a very child,
                                Pure, single?minded, with no marring fleck
                                Of self?conceit, although by dreams beguiled;
                                And she would sigh, to think how time must wreck
                                His hopes, and all his fancies disenchant;
                                So mused the girl, like some old maiden aunt.
                            
                            
                            
                                But soon, a strange new light began to break
                                Upon her mind, and dubiously to fall
                                O’er thought and feeling: what if the mistake
                                In truth, were hers; and what if after all
                                This visionary seer were more awake
                                Than she, the sage and mathematical?
                                ’Twas thus she pondered, as in church she sate
                                Listening, with changeful colours delicate.
                            
                            
                                From pitying, she began to sympathise,
                                From sympathising, almost to revere;
                                The inner light grew radiant in her eyes,
                                And she forgot her wise predictions drear,
                                And she forgot to carp and criticise,
                                And all things she forgot, except to hear,
                                And hope, and with willing mind receive
                                The mystic word—and lastly, to believe.
                            
                            
                                Her face grew fairer, and her step more light,
                                As though she entertained, not unaware,
                                An angel: as some holy anchorite,
                                When heavenly visitants have deigned to share
                                His hut and food, will feel a sweet delight
                                Henceforth, in water pure and meagre fare;
                                So Ella found new pleasures in her home,
                                And fresh gradations in Life’s monochrome.
                            
                            
                            
                                More bright and blithe she was, than any yet
                                Had known her; all around might well discern
                                The change, much marvelling what amulet
                                Transformed the gentle maiden taciturn
                                So gladsomely. When she and Alan met,
                                As soon they must meet, haply
                                    might she learn
                                The spirit of all prophets who have dwelt
                                On earth, and dream what Christ’s apostles felt.
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            IV.
                            
                                AT last they met, once, twice, and many times,
                                Until she knew the secret of his being,
                                That essence which an ardent zeal sublimes
                                From the dull ashes; faith was slowly freeing
                                Her soul from fear; she felt as one who climbs
                                High peaks at midnight, knowing, but not seeing
                                The depths beneath him, while his lantern’s glow
                                Shines brilliantly before him on the snow.
                            
                            
                                What shall the sun reveal? A cloud?robed world,
                                A space of white about the traveller’s feet,
                                And all things else impenetrably furled
                                In vapours cold? Or will the mist retreat,
                                Unveiling valleys green, with lakes impearled,
                                And bounded by a curve of Alps, that greet
                                The dawn with rosy summits, towering high
                                Beneath the paling moon and faint blue sky?
                            
                            
                            
                                But Alan—with heart pure and passionate
                                That ne’er of any woman’s love had dreamed,
                                To noble service ever consecrate—
                                Now joyed in broadening, brightening noon, that
                                    streamed
                                Above him and around, till Life and Fate
                                Were nought but one glad radiance, and Love
                                    seemed
                                The fruit of Truth’s white flower, grown sweet and ripe;
                                Nay, Truth herself was here, the perfect type
                            
                            
                                In a fair woman’s form; the one Ideal
                                Shining all glorious ’mid the figures grey
                                Of Earth; how different from the hideous Real
                                He saw in court and alley day by day!
                                He was of those who going down to Sheol
                                Can find God there, yet none the less do pray
                                To see Him, not through veils of shame and vice,
                                But as man first beheld in Paradise.
                            
                            
                                Yet when the Truth is clad in beauteous flesh
                                That man may know it, human love will claim
                                Its rights; and daily deeper in the mesh
                                Sank Alan’s heart, and all his fine?strung frame
                                With passion throbbed. One August evening fresh
                                He walked in Ella’s garden, while the flame
                                Of sunset lit the trees with golden sheen,
                                Changing to chrysoprase their sombre green.
                            
                            
                            
                                And she was at his side; he spoke to her
                                Eagerly, earnestly, and yet he said
                                No word whose mere significance could stir
                                The pulse; but every syllable, instead
                                Of telling its own tale, was messenger
                                Of Love; and answering came the fitful red
                                To Ella’s cheeks; though, as they slowly walked,
                                ’Twas but of Alan’s mission that they talked.
                            
                            
                                Until he said, close?bending, “When at first
                                I came, and saw the rows of faces blank,
                                The brutish and the ignorant, and worst
                                The self?complacent rich, my spirit sank
                                A moment; then a flood of sunshine burst
                                Upon me, for I saw your eyes that drank
                                The message, and returned it richly bright,
                                As this deep rose gives beauty to the light.
                            
                            
                                “And as the rose within her petals hides
                                The rays which they reflect not, yet receive,
                                Oh, tell me now that in your heart abides
                                Full confidence—nay, Ella, do not grieve,
                                Look up—assure me that one Vision guides
                                Your steps and mine—that you in truth believe;
                                I know it, yet forgive me if I seek
                                To hear it—Ella! speak to me—oh speak!”
                            
                            
                            
                                She faltered “I believe” with head low?drooped,
                                And tearful eyes—new longings and alarms
                                Athwart her inward vision swiftly trooped;
                                As one whom unfamiliar music charms
                                Breathless and mute she stood; but Alan stooped
                                And kissed her lips, and clasped her in his arms,
                                Crying, “I love—I worship you! We share
                                One life—oh joy too great for man to bear!”
                            
                            
                                And she replied; such answers are not made
                                In speech articulate; no word she spoke
                                For Alan’s ears, but on his breast she laid
                                Her head, as though she sought at once to cloak
                                And to express her passion. They had stayed
                                Thus, for long hours, but that a loud sound broke
                                Upon their rapt communion, like the knell
                                Of that bright moment—’twas the evening bell
                            
                            
                                For prayer. They hurried in, nor watched the glow
                                Of sunset fading from the purple beech,
                                And, bidding fond good?night, she bade him go,
                                That she, with chosen words, might try to reach
                                Her parents’ hearts, before she slept. And so
                                The sacred love?tale was profaned by speech,
                                Till from the two she won a slow consent,
                                Mingled with scolding and with merriment.
                            
                            
                            
                                The father, half in earnest, half to tease,
                                Exclaimed—“Just like Cadijah and Mahomet,
                                Or Beatrice and Dante— whom you please!
                                I wish you joy, my daughter, and your comet
                                Is brilliant.” The shrewd mother, ill at ease,
                                Said “No—your will?o’?the?wisp! What can
                                    come from it?
                                And what’s the use of all your Conic Sections
                                If like a fool you yield to your affections?”
                            
                            
                                But Ella gloried in the grudging “Yes;”
                                Love lent the charmëd days bright plumes to fly,
                                Woke her each morn, and filled her loneliness
                                With light, and sang at eve her lullaby:
                                Yet, as the spring?buds burst, her joy grew less—
                                No chill distrust of Alan’s constancy,
                                Nor any fear that time could e’er abate
                                His fervid love, made her disconsolate.
                            
                            
                                It was not this; but her deep?thinking brain
                                Learned slowly, mournfully, against her will,
                                How mystic faiths are woven from a vain
                                Tissue of dreams, which hold men captive still
                                In day?light; and she saw, with bitter pain,
                                That every thought, deed, passion, good or ill,
                                Might thus be sanctified, and at its need
                                Find refuge in some hospitable creed.
                            
                            
                            
                                And when she conned the pages of his book,
                                And saw his cherished thoughts, all printed
                                    clear,
                                Robbed of that glow suffused of voice and look
                                Which made their mellow misty atmosphere,
                                She shivered, almost thinking she mistook
                                The words, that seemed so living to her ear,
                                So spectral to her eye—men praised the style,
                                Bold, fiery: mute she heard, with pallid smile.
                            
                            
                                Not that her love diminished—nay, it grew:
                                As oft from wild delirious words we know
                                The spirit’s beauty, so his nature true
                                Shone out more bright through the delusive show
                                Of gloaming fantasies; but well she knew
                                Her Reason tipped the dart, and strung the bow,
                                To slay his Passion: with a wife to dwell
                                Not wedded to his soul, for him were Hell.
                            
                            
                                Confute a theologian; with sharp word
                                He answers you, yet may forgive the thrust
                                If he be quite convinced that you have erred:
                                But tell Jehovah’s prophet that his trust
                                Is nought—he will not rage, but he will gird
                                His loins in silence, and will shake the dust
                                From off his feet, and go his lonely way,
                                Over dry desert sand, or fenlands grey.
                            
                            
                            
                                She pined with strange distress—the woman’s heart
                                Throbbed, quivered, bled; while the logician’s
                                    mind
                                Worked on relentless, heeding not the smart,
                                Ne’er to be drugged, or deafened, or made blind;
                                Against herself her riven self took part,
                                The martyr and the torturer combined:
                                Stretched on the rack, bound with flesh?cutting rope,
                                What is the poor maimed anguished victim’s hope?
                            
                            
                                What is a woman’s hope when she is torn
                                By passion and by thought, and cannot cease
                                To think or love, nor teach herself to scorn
                                Her deepest life, nor ever win release
                                From the harsh yoke, too heavy to be borne,
                                Of iron principles that crush her peace:
                                Will not some opiate give her dreamful rest
                                Till she return to the Great Mother’s breast?
                            
                            
                                Nay! rather let her maim her shrinking soul—
                                That groping she may climb her lame way in
                                To Life—than down to Death, seeing and whole,
                                Spring, damned by the inexpiable sin
                                Of treachery; and in the longed?for goal
                                Find that fair?seeming Heaven which traitors win
                                Whose gate is bliss; whose midmost point, a germ
                                Of Hell, whence issues the undying worm.
                            
                            
                            
                                ’Twas a May twilight—and the two once more
                                Paced round the walks where they were wont to
                                    spend
                                Sweet hours: but Ella spoke as ne’er before—
                                Calmly, as one who, dying, tells his friend,
                                His best?belovëd friend, that life is o’er,
                                That now is come the dead, blank, hopeless end;
                                Yet weeps not, neither moans, because his breath
                                Is well?nigh quenched by the chill winds of Death.
                            
                            
                                But Alan stayed her—“No, it cannot be!
                                This is some fevered nightmare dream!” he cried—
                                “Wake and believe, dear Ella! wake and see
                                How Earth and Heaven by God are glorified;
                                His presence shines in every flower and tree,
                                And in ourselves—and shall He be denied
                                By those who breathe His Spirit? Be not you
                                Like the blind throng, who know not what they do!
                            
                            
                                “Forgive me, Dearest; you are sad and pale;
                                I speak too harshly.” But she answered—” Nay,
                                Be not so gentle, lest your words avail
                                Too much—lest I be tempted to obey
                                Love, and not conscience: my resolve is frail,
                                Yet I will speak: oh turn your
                                    eyes away,
                                And do not touch my hand, the while I try
                                To tell my thought—until we say good?bye.
                            
                            
                            
                                “You are as true as any seer of old,
                                Prophet, or martyr; you would sell your life
                                That Faith might rise up from her torpor cold,
                                And vanquish doubt, hypocrisy, and strife:
                                For this I loved you—yes, long ere you told
                                Your love—yet, Alan, if I were your wife
                                I should be but a mist, a leaden cloud,
                                Folding your spirit in its clinging shroud.
                            
                            
                                “For all my faith is gone, that seemed so sure
                                Even that God who every day is wroth
                                With sinners, gives a refuge more secure
                                For the sad heart; the banquet is of froth
                                Which you in mercy set before the poor,
                                Not knowing: Alan, Alan, that we both
                                Might strive to find, by patient thought and search,
                                Some firm foundation for a nobler Church!”
                            
                            
                                Her voice grew stronger, and more clear her glance,
                                As thus she pleaded, and to thoughts long pent
                                Within her breast, gave language; she perchance
                                Clung to some hope: but Alan, eloquent,
                                Broke forth with all the story of his trance,
                                And how he was inspired of God, and sent
                                To tend the flame Divine ’mid vapours damp
                                And cold—the dim yet ever?burning lamp.
                            
                            
                            
                                She listened—then she said, in tones that fell
                                Upon his soul and senses heavily—
                                “Long have I pondered o’er this vision?spell;
                                For me it holds no magic. You are free,
                                And we must part—kiss me and say Farewell.
                                Yet are you mine to all Eternity—
                                No other voice or look my heart can move,
                                I love you with irrevocable love.”
                            
                            
                                The pallid mournful face, the solemn tone,
                                Slew all his hope. He clasped her to his breast,
                                And kissed the passive lips, that chilled his own
                                Like icicles, and speechlessly expressed
                                Her anguish—till she cried, with sudden moan
                                Thrusting him from her— “Leave me—it is best—
                                I am too weak to bear it.” Forth he went
                                Alone, with quick blind steps, and head low?bent.
                            
                            
                                When some poor lonely pilgrim devotee
                                Who worships in the temple of a saint,
                                Coming one morning with his fervent plea
                                Finds the shrine empty—trembling then and faint
                                He leaves the stone, deep?printed by his knee,
                                And goes out homeless, with no wild complaint,
                                But stricken. Yet to feel what Alan felt
                                Is sharper pain—to see the spirit melt
                            
                            
                            
                                And fade and vanish from some image fair
                                Of Truth, whose glory clothed it like the sun,
                                But now departs, leaving it cold and bare
                                And lifeless. One dark moment, only one
                                He doubted his Ideal; but his prayer
                                And answering Vision, came afresh, and spun
                                A web, that nought could break except the power
                                Of Life’s last sad illuminating hour.
                            
                            
                                And Ella? Almost stupefied with woe,
                                Of him were all her thoughts,
                                    as bowed, forlorn,
                                He left her, sorely wounded, as a foe
                                Can never wound. She scarce could stay to mourn
                                Her own maimed life, but, pacing to and fro,
                                Pictured his days of weary labour, shorn
                                Of joy; until the bitterness of loss
                                O’erwhelmed her, and she stooped to take her cross.
                            
                            
                                She set herself to suffer and endure
                                In silence. Life, though mutilated, marred,
                                Must yet be lived; there was not any cure,
                                Nor any further stab; the gate seemed barred
                                Alike to hope and fear, and she was pure
                                At least, of treason; yet the thought was hard
                                That this last act of loyalty could gain
                                Nought from her Love, save haply his disdain.
                            
                            
                            
                                Heart?sore, all probing hints she sought to parry,
                                But when at length she spoke, her father said—
                                “My dear, a man of genius should not marry,
                                It should be penal for a seer to wed;
                                You know, Ezekiel’s wife must help to carry
                                His ‘burden.’” “Yes, and help to earn the bread,
                                And bake it,” said the mother—“glorious fate
                                No doubt—for ‘glorious’ means ‘unfortunate’!”
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            V.
                            
                                SUMMER passed by, and Autumn; Winter came
                                With grey cold days and black unpitying nights,
                                And many children gathered round the flame
                                Of Yule?tide logs, and dreamed of new delights
                                With the New Year: many, with shivering frame,
                                Half?naked, famished, crept to see the sights
                                In gay shop?windows—a celestial treat!
                                On earth there might be bread, and sometimes meat,
                            
                            
                                But this was Heaven. They had their make?believe,
                                For every child can find an open door
                                Even from Hell, and thoughtlessly achieve
                                Proserpine’s miracle; while she who bore
                                The starvelings, crouches too benumbed to grieve
                                In her cold room, and sees but the bare floor
                                And fireless hearth, and hungers through the day,
                                Idle, or toiling hard for paltry pay.
                            
                            
                            
                                Wages were low that winter; work was scant;
                                And many little groups of men would cluster
                                Round the street corners; grim they were and gaunt,
                                With hollow cheeks and sunken eyes lack?lustre;
                                And oft, attracted by the ready rant
                                Of some stump orator, a throng would muster
                                To hear of wrongs and rights, and pass a plan
                                For straightway equalising man and man.
                            
                            
                                And Alan went among them; he was pale
                                And thin as they, but his deep eyes outshone
                                With self?consuming light, that told a tale
                                Of Hope and Love irrevocably gone,
                                But Faith still clinging to her Holy Grail—
                                That sacred poison?wine, which made him wan
                                And fiery, giving strength to brave and bear
                                All ills, all woes; strength even to despair.
                            
                            
                                But at the people’s groan, his heart waxed hot,
                                And loathed the miserable prayers and pence
                                He had to give, and private pangs forgot
                                In the one sorrow of his impotence
                                To succour; he would say he scarce knew what
                                In fire?words, winged with fatal eloquence,
                                And then go home, and in his study brood
                                Through night, till dawn, careless of sleep and food.
                            
                            
                            
                                Thus the drear days dragged on; and with the spring
                                No comfort came, but rather woe more keen,
                                For Poverty more deeply plunged her sting,
                                And stalwart frames grew slouching, pinched, and
                                    lean,
                                And there arose that sullen murmuring
                                Which may mean little, but perchance may mean
                                The roll of coming thunder, and the flash
                                Of lightning—or the earthquake’s deadlier crash.
                            
                            
                                One day, as Alan sat intently writing
                                An earnest tract on Dives and his dogs,
                                A sudden tumult, as of fire or fighting,
                                Pierced through the smoky mist which ever clogs
                                The air of towns; he heard a voice inciting
                                To deeds of vengeance— “Are you stones or logs?
                                Prove yourselves men! Burst on them like a flood—
                                The rich, who batten on your flesh and blood!”
                            
                            
                                He started up; that moment, his old friend
                                George rushed in, crying— “Quick! the mob! a
                                    riot!
                                The people cried for bread, and we who tend
                                Their souls political, replied ‘Be quiet!
                                Hope on!’ while such as you, the case to mend,
                                Fed them on too inflammable a diet;
                                And so, among us all, the mischief’s done,
                                The fire brand lit, the rioting begun.
                            
                            
                            
                                “But now, make haste! for some of them have taken
                                The road to Ella’s home—don’t turn so white!
                                Perhaps they’ll only ask for bread and bacon,
                                And beer, their one inalienable right;
                                Cheer up, my friend! I know you are forsaken,
                                But here’s a chance to act the doughty knight,
                                Boldly to face the many?headed giant,
                                And hold your Love ’gainst all the world defiant!”
                            
                            
                                They chose the quiet streets, where the fierce rabble
                                Came not; all doors were barred, all shops were
                                    shut.
                                No children in the gutters dared to dabble,
                                No woman chatted with her neighbour; but
                                From the great thoroughfares they heard the babble
                                Of many voices; once, the fog was cut
                                By springing flame, and the friends faster strode,
                                Winding through bye?ways to that dear abode.
                            
                            
                                Alan, impatient, fevered, onward urged
                                His comrade; they came nearer to the noise,
                                And in a fair broad road at last emerged,
                                Filled with a ragged rout of men and boys
                                And women; like a stormy sea it surged,
                                That blindly, deafly, ruthlessly destroys:
                                Some carried stones; some, staves; some, iron crows
                                And rails; some, bludgeons, fit for deadliest blows.
                            
                            
                            
                                Some faces were pale, wolfish; some on fire
                                With drink, and hope of spoil or forced largess
                                From wealthy homes; in tawdry torn attire
                                The women scarcely hid their nakedness;
                                And there were jests, foul as the city mire
                                Whose old stains clung to many a tattered dress:
                                Such was the tide that towards the suburb rolled
                                Where Ella dwelt. One moment, speechless, cold,
                            
                            
                                Stood Alan: then, with sudden leap, he sprang
                                On a low wall, and beckoned to the crowd
                                That fought, broke windows, trampled gardens, sang
                                And swore, around him; but his voice rose loud,
                                And through the clamour like a trumpet rang;
                                Its clear bold accents for a minute cowed
                                The people; or perchance they thought he came
                                To spur them forward to their desperate game.
                            
                            
                                “My friends!” he cried, “all human hopes and lives
                                Are truly one; no man can harm another
                                But blindly with his proper Self he strives,
                                His own soul in the body of his brother:
                                In you, in all, the spark of Truth survives—
                                Is there no father here, is there no mother,
                                No husband, wife or friend, who knows the tie
                                Which makes two beings one until they die?
                            
                            
                            
                                “That tie is but an image and a sign
                                Of universal kinship—to reveal
                                How men are sharers in the life Divine:
                                Think not the rich man’s woe the poor man’s weal!
                                When the brain languishes the heart must pine;
                                To hate is atheism, and to steal
                                Is sacrilege; to murder, suicide:
                                I too have erred, who should have been your guide;
                            
                            
                                “Oft I spoke rashly, for my heart was sore
                                To see you suffer; humbly I avow
                                My fault, my crime—Ah help me to restore
                                The peace I troubled; let me lead you now
                                Back to your homes.” Then rose an angry roar,
                                And a great stone struck Alan on the brow,
                                He staggered; and before his friend could bound
                                To save him, he fell prone with heavy sound.
                            
                            
                                George raised him in his arms—bleeding, death?white,
                                Unconscious—then to face the crowd he turned:
                                “This is the man who laboured day and night
                                For you and for your children—yes, he burned
                                His life away, and loved you in despite
                                Of all ingratitude, and still returned
                                Good for your evil—his own wants denied
                                For you—that you might live, he would have died.
                            
                            
                            
                                “And you have slain him. Help me, some of you,
                                To stanch his wounds—those whom he visited
                                When they were ill, and brought them aid—those, too,
                                Who starved, until he gave them his own bread—
                                And if by chance there should be here a few
                                Who were in prison, and he came and said
                                Kind words of hope—’tis only these I pray
                                Now for their help to carry him away
                            
                            
                                “And bear him to his friends.” The crowd was hushed.
                                But he who seemed the chief, a strong tall man,
                                Came forth with halting step, and features flushed,
                                And look half?shamed, half?sorry, and began—
                                “The parson nursed me when my foot was crushed,
                                I would not do him harm. Here, Ned and Dan,
                                Help us to carry him—and you, John, go
                                Quick, for a doctor—’tis an ugly blow,
                            
                            
                                “But worse have mended.” Now the throng, subdued
                                Almost to soberness, his words obeyed,
                                Seeming a funeral pageant motley?hued:
                                As once through Florence paced a cavalcade
                                Of skeletons and spectres—all the brood
                                Of Famine and of Death—such show they made;
                                And bearing Alan in procession grim
                                Straightway to Ella’s home they carried him.
                            
                            
                            
                                They passed fair gardened homes that rich men build,
                                But every man was hidden, as a rat
                                Hides in his hole; like birds affrighted, stilled
                                By coming storm, crouched those who “eat the fat
                                And drink the sweet,” that Scripture be fulfilled—
                                On, till George saw the house where Ella sat
                                Alone, for both her parents were away,
                                Spending in Rome their Easter holiday.
                            
                            
                                She all the day had shivered in suspense
                                For Alan’s safety, growing sick with fear,
                                And making now and then a vain pretence
                                To read, but straining all the while her ear,
                                And starting at each murmur, to see whence
                                The voices came; for as they grew more clear
                                She felt, she knew, that Alan must be nigh,
                                To turn the rabble backward, or to die.
                            
                            
                                There came a roar—she shuddered—then a lull—
                                She waited at the window, in her dread,
                                And soon she heard again the murmurs dull,
                                And saw at last a strange procession, led
                                By men who bore some burden pitiful—
                                Was it a comrade, wounded—dying—dead?
                                But knew she not the figure and the gait
                                Of Alan’s friend? Oh Heaven! Came they too late,
                            
                            
                            
                                And did they bring him dead, that she might see
                                His face, and weep with unavailing woe?
                                Nearer they came and nearer—Yes, ’twas he—
                                Her cheeks turned white, her heart stood still, as
                                    though
                                She too must fall; but, tottering dizzily,
                                She left her room in piteous need to know
                                The truth—with quivering hands unbarred the door,
                                And ran to meet the crowd, and what it bore.
                            
                            
                                George saw her coming in her breathless haste,
                                With wide eyes, feet that terror seemed to spur,
                                Long hair unknotted, floating to her waist;
                                Till then, he scarce had spent a thought on her,
                                But now he groaned; ’twere easier to have faced
                                A furious mob; he felt a murderer:
                                Forward he stepped, and lest her strength should fail,
                                Stayed her, and told, as best he might, the tale.
                            
                            
                                “He is not dead!” she cried—“not dead!” and then
                                Her heart grew stronger; Alan’s face she saw
                                And scarcely trembled; to those rugged men,
                                Those hungering, thirsting breakers of the law,
                                She spoke, with accents that seemed alien
                                To her own voice; they listened half in awe,
                                And bore him to the house; and then dispersed
                                With money for their hunger and their thirst.
                            
                            
                            
                                Alan lay still unconscious; months of toil,
                                And care, and grief, had done their work by
                                    stealth;
                                The mental and the physical turmoil,
                                The evil deeds of poverty and wealth,
                                The city’s filth and crime, that could not soil
                                His spirit, drained away his body’s health:
                                “But he will live!” cried Ella, fain to grope
                                For light. The surgeon said, “There still is hope.”
                            
                            
                                “There still is hope.” Thus sounds the first low note,
                                The first faint tremor of the passing bell!
                                “There still is hope.” The dread that loomed remote
                                Draws near; the poison?pang we sought to quell
                                Stings sharper for this futile antidote:
                                So heavy on her ears the comfort fell—
                                “There still is hope.” She watched his sighing breath,
                                Feeling herself the very pains of death.
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            VI.
                            
                                ELLA kept anxious vigil by the bed:
                                How strange it is to watch through creeping hours
                                A face which was Thought’s temple, and instead
                                To find blank nothingness, or jarring powers;
                                For mind, and soul, and senses, all are fled,
                                And weirdly wander in a world not ours,
                                Some Tartarus, whereof we seek the key,
                                Striving to follow and to set them free.
                            
                            
                                Ere night, there came a change; for Alan woke
                                From torpor to delirium; now he seemed
                                To see again his Vision, and invoke
                                With prayer, some Power divine; anon, he dreamed
                                Of his old home and his old faith, and broke
                                Into sad cries of “Mother!” and there streamed
                                From his hot lips full many a wonder wild
                                Of elves, and wraiths, and witches who beguiled
                            
                            
                            
                                The hearts of chieftains. Then he wandered back
                                From childish days, and softly moaned the name
                                Of Ella; or he trod his wonted track
                                ’Mid squalor and disease, and vice and shame,
                                Crying, “I cannot eat while others lack,
                                I eat their flesh!” But still again he came
                                To that old home, and raved with strange despair
                                Because he could not find his mother there.
                            
                            
                                And Ella listened; these lamentings moved
                                Her inmost heart; her sorrowing eyes grew dim
                                With bitterer tears—this woman she had loved,
                                Tenderly loved, when first betrothed to him,
                                But, at the severance, haply it behoved
                                A prophet’s mother to resent the whim
                                That harmed her idol; and the two, estranged,
                                For many months no greeting word had changed.
                            
                            
                                And who would tell the mother? She must come;
                                But who would say to her—“Your son is lying
                                Wounded to death—he wakes from swoonings dumb
                                To rave and moan—perchance he may be dying
                                E’en while I speak.” Poor Ella, cold and numb,
                                Pondered of this, and felt her heart replying—
                                “You, you must bear the message—only you
                                Have wrecked his life—take anguish as your due.
                            
                            
                            
                                As thus she mused, George entered. “Go awhile,”
                                He said, “and sleep, for you are tired and worn,
                                And I will watch.” She gave a faint wan smile
                                At thought of sleep, with this envenomed thorn
                                Deep in her breast—better the weary mile
                                To Alan’s home—better to greet the mom
                                With wakeful eyes, than half to see its beams
                                In the sad Limbo of unslumbrous dreams.
                            
                            
                                But forth she went; and loitering at the gate
                                She saw that stalwart limping rioter
                                Who championed Alan ’gainst the blinded hate
                                Of the brute mob. No tumult was astir,
                                But only this one man had come to wait
                                For news. In whispering tones he questioned her,
                                As though a louder sound the ear might reach
                                Of him who heard but his own babbling speech.
                            
                            
                                And when she told her errand, he besought
                                That he might guide her through the darkening
                                    streets,
                                For some of those who swore and robbed and fought
                                That morning, were not sated with their feats;
                                He had no fear—he never would be caught
                                By any slow policeman on his beats;
                                She would be safe with him—for well enough
                                His face was known to every city rough.
                            
                            
                            
                                So, with her strange companion, Ella wound
                                Through many streets, with foot that could not
                                    tire,
                                And scarcely saw the wrecks that lay around,
                                The havoc wrought by pillage and by fire;
                                Nor did her speed grow slack, until she found
                                Her goal; and then, refusing gift or hire,
                                Her guide departed; timidly she knocked,
                                And a slow trembling hand the door unlocked
                            
                            
                                And Ella stepped into the homely room
                                Where, two years past, Alan his Vision told;
                                There, sitting upright in the fire?lit gloom,
                                Was the grey father, stern yet unconsoled,
                                Still mourning for his son’s eternal doom:
                                The careworn mother, thinner than of old,
                                Flitted from spot to spot, or crouching sate
                                Like a poor bird with nest made desolate.
                            
                            
                                I know not how the story was begun,
                                Nor ended how; the father’s face, hard?set,
                                Just quivered— “Lord,” he said, “Thy will be done!”
                                But with reluctant tears his eyes grew wet,
                                Oozing like drops of blood—” My son, my son!”
                                He murmured, seeming all things to forget
                                Save sorrow; but the mother, pallid, fierce,
                                Gazed at the girl, as though she fain would pierce
                            
                            
                            
                                Her heart. “Your fault!” she cried—“it is your fault!
                                His blood be on your head, if he must die;
                                Like the proud Pharisees, who did exalt
                                Their barren lore, and shouted ‘Crucify!’
                                You slew my son!” But now the tear?drops salt
                                Choked her mad words; and Ella made reply
                                By kneeling at her feet and weeping— “Nay,
                                Mother! it was myself I meant to slay.”
                            
                            
                                She kissed the slender hand, by toil made hard,
                                And the poor mother, seeing her so mild,
                                And feeling the hot tears, her heart unbarred
                                With quick repentance for those plainings wild;
                                Saying—“Forgive me—kiss me—I should guard
                                My lips from evil. Take me to my child.”
                                The women clung together; then the three
                                Set out on their sad errand silently.
                            
                            
                                They neared the house with many a wordless prayer,
                                And knew not whether that they came to seek
                                Were life or death: George met them on the stair
                                With mien so haggard, that it seemed to speak
                                All that they dreaded; but he said, “Prepare
                                To see him—he is conscious, but as weak
                                As any babe, and his unceasing cry
                                Is ‘Let my mother come before I die!’”
                            
                            
                            
                                And the two parents, by his tone bereft
                                Well?nigh of hope, passed to the sick man’s side;
                                While Ella in her loneliness was left
                                Waiting without, uncalled. Should Death divide
                                Their hearts for ever, leaving still the cleft
                                Between his soul and hers unbridged and wide?
                                She lingered; oft against her will she heard
                                The tender sighing of a farewell word.
                            
                            
                                Was there for her no longing and no
                                    call,
                                Not even one poor good?bye message, sent
                                Like ears of corn that careless hands let fall
                                For one who gleans—was this her punishment?
                                Was parting not enough, without the gall
                                Of this immedicable pain, unblent
                                With joy, and stinging backward, till at last
                                It should empoison all the sacred Past?
                            
                            
                                But now the two came out to her; their tears
                                Were dried, and in their faces there was calm;
                                The father seemed as one who dimly hears
                                The music of some new revealing psalm;
                                The mother, past all hopes and past all fears
                                And memories of anger, with cold palm
                                Pressed Ella’s hand—“Go in,” she said, “be brave,
                                He loves you now—yes, even to the grave.”
                            
                            
                            
                                He loved her—then the utmost bitterness
                                Was gone from pain, leaving remembered joy
                                Unsullied—happy they who still possess
                                Gladness in grief embalmed, that cannot cloy
                                With full fruition, nor by time grow less,
                                Nor can estrangement any more destroy
                                This Love ideal: thus doth Heaven accord
                                Through Death, its one immutable reward.
                            
                            
                                She went in softly; he lay white and still,
                                Though his dark eyes unquenched were burning
                                    clear;
                                She laid her hand in his, already chill,
                                And heard his faint voice whisper, “Dear, more
                                    dear
                                In death—forgive me, Ella, and fulfil
                                My last petition, for the end is near,
                                Is close; oh stay, and hold awhile my hand,
                                And listen—only you will understand.
                            
                            
                                “Stay with me, while I linger on the verge
                                Of the unknown abyss, yet void of awe
                                And fear, and ecstasy; I hear a dirge
                                Wailing that Vision which of old I saw;
                                Yet not in darkness but in glory merge
                                My dreams, and yield to some transcendent Law,
                                I know not how; for all is plunged and drowned
                                In the bright waters of this peace profound.
                            
                            
                            
                                “But that my eyesight wanes, now might I see;
                                But that my thoughts grow dim, at last might
                                    learn;
                                But that sleep weighs me down so wearily,
                                Rise to that Truth, for whose pure light I yearn:
                                Unworshipped on her mount she dwells, in free
                                And maiden loneliness; her wooers turn
                                Toward fair reflected images, that gleam
                                And waver with the mist or with the stream.
                            
                            
                                “I cannot think, and scarcely can I feel—
                                But you are strong, and now again you shine
                                Truth’s radiant herald, come to wound and heal
                                A generation hungry for a sign—
                                Be no sign granted, saving to unseal
                                The meaning of the ages, and unshrine
                                All errors, all illusions—theirs, my own:
                                For though the wine?press that I trod alone
                            
                            
                                “Held blood?red grapes from the volcano’s edge,
                                Yet the true purple full?ripe fruit I missed:
                                Seek you and find; oh give this one last pledge—
                                Ella, my Love—my Wife!” His lips she kissed
                                With tender lingering pressure: sacrilege
                                It seemed, to mar that silent Eucharist
                                By uttered vow; the very soul of each
                                Shone visible, disrobed of veiling speech.
                            
                            
                            
                                Grieve not for them; but rather grieve for such
                                As live with what they love, and night and noon
                                Have joy of gentle voice and kindly touch,
                                Yet famish for some unimagined boon;
                                Too little Heaven they have, and all too much
                                Of Earth, whose bounties deaden, late or soon,
                                Their aspiration; or its torrent?force
                                Frays out some fleshly or ethereal course.
                            
                            
                                For such your grief; what husbands and their wives
                                Once in long years each other’s soul can see?
                                But these found all to which high Passion strives—
                                Perfect communion, from cold symbols free,
                                The fleeting quintessence of myriad lives,
                                A concentrated brief Eternity,
                                The mountain?vista of an endless age
                                Not known by weary winding pilgrimage.
                            
                            
                                At length she spoke— “Myself I dedicate
                                To this great service: all my spirit’s power—
                                Through joy and grief, in good or evil fate,
                                Whether the desert pathways bud and flower,
                                Or the fair fields be ravaged by man’s hate—
                                Shall bear the superscription of this hour:
                                I give whate’er I have of strength and skill;
                                Trust me in this—what Woman can, I will.”
                            
                            
                            
                                Then she was silent: for his look was fraught
                                With peace that quenches all desire and dread,
                                Yet spares the impress of each noble thought
                                That ruled in life the converse of the dead;
                                As Night brings every trivial thing to nought,
                                While still the mountains tower, the oceans
                                    spread:
                                Long time she knelt; and when at last she rose
                                Her features almost mirrored his repose.
                            
                        
                    
                        
                
            
            
            
                
                    
                    THE ELIXIR OF LIFE.
                    
                    
                        THE ELIXIR OF LIFE.
                        
                            I.
                            
                                IN some strange waking vision I beheld
                                A man and woman in their summer prime,
                                Who seemed memorial forms of classic eld,
                                And yet the fairest, newest births of Time;
                                My heart they rapt, my questionings they quelled:
                                But now I bid my plain ungilded rhyme
                                Repeat the marvels that I saw and heard
                                Vivid in colour and distinct in word.
                            
                            
                                The man was such as Grecian sculptors took
                                For model of a god; he well might cope
                                With any deity who ever shook
                                The lance or lyre; he seemed incarnate Hope:
                                And there was joyous foresight in his look,
                                As though the Present were a telescope
                                Through which appeared the Future’s nebulous haze
                                Clear sky, with constellated suns ablaze.
                            
                            
                            
                                Yet, gazing in his dark unfathomed eyes,
                                You might behold long mournful ages pass,
                                Each laying down a load of mysteries
                                Solved by his mind; you saw, as in a glass,
                                Your own thoughts and the world’s thoughts, mad or wise,
                                Fleet, ever adding to the winnowed mass;
                                As though Apollo, fling of laughing Hours,
                                With Time’s old scythe should reap the grass and flowers.
                            
                            
                                Tall was the woman; beautiful and lithe,
                                Filled full of life in eye, and lip, and hair,
                                Whose coils like dull?gold serpents seemed to writhe
                                About her royal forehead broad and fair;
                                Her sapphire eyes were bright, their glance was blithe,
                                Yet if you caught it sideways, unaware,
                                Now and again, behind the lustre glad
                                Floated a shade, half cynic and half sad.
                            
                            
                                One moment she would seem an angel, fresh
                                From Heaven, and bringing joyful news to man.
                                The next, a shuddering hint of World and Flesh
                                And Devil, swiftly through your senses ran;
                                But then her eyes and voice would quite enmesh
                                Your soul, and you could neither bless nor ban—
                                Happy, if ere the Siren’s isle you passed
                                Your Fate had lashed you safely to the mast!
                            
                            
                            
                                Together in a frescoed hall they sate,
                                Storied with pictures fair of many lands:
                                Old Rome, and sad Palmyra desolate,
                                And Alpine summits, and Arabian sands;
                                Fair ladies rode with knights inamorate,
                                And little children played in merry bands;
                                But not a group so bright was painted there
                                That it might shadow forth the living pair.
                            
                            
                                He held her hand, yet seemed to wander through
                                Long years of thought; till she the silence
                                    broke,
                                And made of her soft voice a silken clue
                                To guide him back; these gentle words she spoke—
                                “Dearest, this day you promised to endue
                                My heart with mirth celestial, and evoke
                                Visions of joy, whose glories should prevail
                                O’er all the marvels of Arabian tale.”
                            
                            
                                Light was her tone; but he, with accent grave,
                                Said— “Hear me, Marah! In my power I keep
                                A boon more precious than you hope or crave,
                                Or even dream in waking or in sleep;
                                Such bridal gift as no man ever gave
                                To his fair Empress; a delight as deep
                                E’en as our love, which ne’er shall fade and flee
                                Like pallid loves of weak mortality.
                            
                            
                            
                                “Nay, start not, shrink not! Ages have gone by
                                Since in a slumbrous German town I dwelt,
                                And from my jutting gable saw the sky
                                Narrowed but clear; there did my childhood melt
                                In fires of youth; and every day more high
                                Ran my life’s rushing stream, until I felt
                                That never must chill Death the torrent freeze,
                                But it must spread and foam in boundless seas.
                            
                            
                                “Life, dear Life, human Life! for this I prayed—
                                To be a goblet filled up to the brim
                                With Life’s rich wine; not an ethereal shade,
                                A naked spirit passionless and dim,
                                But perfect Man, imperishably made,
                                With Immortality in heart and limb,
                                And brain whose orbëd empire might suffice
                                To hold the World and make it Paradise.
                            
                            
                                “Thus hoping, searching, in alchemic toil
                                I spent the hours of my poor mortal day,
                                Till Time took youth and vigour as a spoil,
                                And bent my frame, and made my temples grey:
                                Yet still I watched my costly potions boil,
                                And with strange herbs and metals did assay
                                To win, and ever hold in bridal clasp
                                The Life that flitting mocked my palsied grasp.
                            
                            
                            
                                “But daily farther from the goal I swerved;
                                Sight left my eyes, and skill my fingers lean:
                                ‘Sweet Life’—I cried—‘for whom I long have served,
                                Whose glorious beauty I from far have seen,
                                Not such reward thy votary deserved,
                                Not this thy warrior’s guerdon should have been—
                                At last, at last, thy full fruition give,
                                Let me not die, ere I have learned to live!
                            
                            
                                “‘Yet if thy renovating touch divine
                                Too late, too late, be laid on these grey hairs,
                                I conquer still, though strength should not be mine
                                To drink the cup my dying hand prepares;
                                Myself, but not my triumph, I resign,
                                For all mankind shall be my deathless heirs:
                                I, friendless, childless, poor, will yet bequeathe
                                One boon—Eternity for all who breathe!’
                            
                            
                                “That night, with aching eyes and weary brain,
                                Over a seething flask I sadly hung,
                                And the last precious drops that I could strain
                                From my necessities, therein I flung,
                                Half?fearing ’twere a senile fancy vain
                                That one so worn and wrinkled could grow young:
                                Suddenly, strangely, the thick wizard?broth
                                Foamed upward in my face with amber froth.
                            
                            
                            
                                “It fell—and bright the liquid grew and pure
                                Like molten topaz; and a perfume rose
                                Whose sweetness might a Moslem saint allure
                                To drink damnation with his Prophet’s foes:
                                Scarce could my soul this lightning?hope endure,
                                My knees were fain to yield, my eyes to close:
                                I stretched a hand, blind?groping, as I sank
                                Gasping for breath, and reached the flask, and drank.
                            
                            
                                “A miracle! my sight, but now half?quenched,
                                Pierced through the gloom, and made the lamplight
                                    clear;
                                I felt my forehead, with deep cares entrenched,
                                Grow smooth, and many a sorrow?laden year
                                Roll like a mist away; the limbs that blenched
                                Were buoyant, and the heart that quaked with fear
                                Now sang exultantly, in youth renewed,
                                And strength to bear its own beatitude.
                            
                            
                                “I dashed the flask to earth with joyous hand—
                                ’Life, human Life, these drops to thee!’ I cried:
                                I ran and leaped; I felt my soul expand
                                Till all its pettier hopes were glorified
                                To a great longing that the Earth should stand
                                Arrayed in Immortality, a bride,
                                Wedded to Heaven, not as a beggar?wife,
                                But bringing her own dower of boundless life.
                            
                            
                            
                                “And those bright drops that on the floor I threw
                                In the exuberant lavishness of health
                                Brought forth, by magic of their golden dew,
                                All tints, and shapes, and substances of wealth;
                                A glorious sculptured palace round me grew,
                                Whose mystic builders wrought unseen, by stealth;
                                Frescoes there were and statues, gold and gems,
                                And sceptres, and Imperial diadems.
                            
                            
                                “Yet all these marvels were but promises
                                And gracious foretastes of a world unknown;
                                I must go forth, a happier Heracles,
                                With hydra?headed Death to strive alone,
                                Fill with new wine all poisoned chalices,
                                Anoint all wounds; revengeful Time dethrone,
                                Crowning and sceptring in his stead at last
                                A perfect Present, that should ne’er be Past.
                            
                            
                                “I sought the mother?land of many hopes—
                                Land of the sun, whose summer rays illume
                                Blue lakes, engarlanded by golden slopes,
                                And valleys dim with amethystine bloom;
                                The wondrous land of scholars, painters, Popes,
                                The Church’s cradle, and the Empire’s tomb:
                                Dear land, my promised Canaan of delights,
                                Peopled, alas, by soft?tongued Canaanites.
                            
                            
                            
                                “I knew fair Florence in her noon?day glow,
                                And in her late repentance and remorse;
                                Saw the first joy of Michel Angelo
                                When great Lorenzo marked his budding force,
                                And pacing at Careggi to and fro
                                Heard silver?voiced Mirandola discourse,
                                Though from San Marco thrilled a note of fear—
                                ‘Repent, repent! the sword of God is here!’
                            
                            
                                “And then I entered those Imperial walls
                                Where every epoch finds its magnet?pole,
                                And watched the great Cathedral’s domëd halls
                                Rise, and Life’s yellow Tiber?current roll,
                                And heard wise Leo and his Cardinals
                                Wittily prate of God and of the Soul,
                                Or lightly mock, as Teuton ravings drunk,
                                The thundering theses of the rebel monk.
                            
                            
                                “But I beheld a black abyss of lust
                                And hatred yawn beneath Italia’s prime—
                                Groaning I said, ‘Where is a man so just,
                                So wise, that he should live beyond his time?
                                What poet, priest, or woman can I trust
                                To use in righteousness my gift sublime?
                                Or shall I aid the crude one?sided plan
                                Of friar Augustine or Dominican?’
                            
                            
                            
                                “And so I kept my boon, and sought anew
                                For one to share it. Now in tranquil seas
                                I coasted, where they lap with waters blue
                                The white or ruddy sands; with westward breeze
                                I sailed, that proud Iberian land to view
                                Made Empress by the ill?starred Genoese,
                                Fain to rule Europe, as she ruled her slaves
                                In diamond mines beyond Atlantic waves.
                            
                            
                                “But here, ’mid wealth and courtesy and pride
                                Methought the vale of Hinnom ever burned,
                                There tender maids and youths in torture died,
                                Parents and children, sages, hinds unlearned,
                                Who all with blind heroic faith defied
                                Faith blindly tyrannous; heartsore I turned
                                From the grim King, who seemed what proverbs
                                Of his Madrid—‘half winter and half hell.’
                            
                            
                                “Now to the valiant island, which that King
                                Had thought to win with mightiest armament:
                                There gladsomely I heard at heaven’s gate sing
                                Blithe birds of morn; and though the song was
                                    blent
                                With notes unworthy so divine a spring,
                                A thrill of joy through all my frame it sent:
                                But not in city or in court I stayed,
                                Nor joined the wooers of the Royal Maid.
                            
                            
                            
                                “It was a midland village that I sought,
                                Where daisy?banked a placid river ran
                                Past a grey church, and near it dwelt and wrought
                                A bard whose god?like eyes the heart could scan,
                                Telling its dreams and humours; but I thought—
                                ‘Nay, let the Poet live, and leave the Man
                                To die in peace; he quaffs his own rich wine
                                Of Immortality—what needs he mine?’
                            
                            
                                “Again I roamed; in European wars
                                I strove, and saw the great Gustavus fall,
                                In the red carnage that my soul abhors
                                Mingled, that I might know and suffer all,
                                Warring, with vanquished or with conquerors,
                                O’er burning home and shattered city?wall,
                                Till peace returned—then, tired in heart and hand,
                                I sought the visions of the Morning Land.
                            
                            
                                “And first I pilgrimed to the Holy Grave
                                Where fought of old the flower of Europe’s might—
                                For the benignant Prince of Peace, who gave
                                Not peace, but sword and fire, long raged the
                                    fight:
                                There now divided Christians scowl and rave,
                                Armenian, Latin, Greek, and Maronite:
                                Loathing I left them; then o’er sand and foam
                                Passed to an elder worship’s dreamful home.
                            
                            
                            
                                “Often at night I heard the lion’s roaring
                                From the wild jungles of some pathless wood;
                                I saw the zonëd Himalayas soaring
                                To Arctic heights; and sought a brotherhood
                                Not found in age?long roving and exploring,
                                Among the saints of Brahma and of Buddh:
                                But no fit sharer of a lofty fate
                                Rose from that primal race degenerate.
                            
                            
                                “Two human lifetimes, alien from the West
                                I roved; then turning, found all Europe lit
                                With war—with strange convulsions sore distressed;
                                And that fair feminine city of keen wit
                                Which made of Earth and Heaven a graceful jest
                                Read her own doom in ruddy lightnings writ—
                                ‘Summed, weighed, found wanting, rent:’ her King was slain,
                                Her Queen, her nobles, that the crushed might reign.
                            
                            
                                “It was the hey?day of that cursëd spawn
                                Of rebels, bred and schooled by Tyranny,
                                That dyed them through and through, and now withdrawn
                                Left them indeed unsovereigned, but not free:
                                And yet it was the drear and blood?red dawn
                                Of a new hope for sad Humanity:
                                I watched a fresh enthusiasm’s birth,
                                Not for high Heaven, but for the suffering Earth.
                            
                            
                            
                                “I knew the man who touched the secret nerve
                                Of Gallic life, and thrilled it as he would;
                                One of those meteor?minds, which never swerve,
                                But dash straight down to their selected good,
                                Not orbing in a planet’s constant curve,
                                Nor comet?soaring through infinitude,
                                But flashing for a moment, earthward hurled,
                                The iron fragment of some starry world.
                            
                            
                                “Then sailed I West, to that Republic free
                                Which bravely to old Britain bade defiance;
                                I saw how Christians fostered slavery,
                                How Freedom with Corruption made alliance;
                                And thence returned, to give unrestingly
                                One life to Metaphysics, one to Science,
                                And one to Politics, that I might know
                                The varied springs of human weal and woe.
                            
                            
                                “Now am I made the King of this fair State,
                                Which I will rule as mortal man rules not;
                                My gathered wisdom will I dedicate
                                To general concord, of just laws begot;
                                Then Paradise shall blossom new?create,
                                Not marred by any fraudful serpent?plot,
                                And Truth and Right the human soul uplift,
                                Till men be worthy of my glorious gift.
                            
                            
                            
                                “While still I roamed, my heart I shut and sealed
                                Against all passionate love; yet oftentimes
                                When dark Italian orbs their light revealed,
                                Or the blue eyes besung in Northern rhymes
                                Glanced coyly, almost would my spirit yield;
                                As though the sure?foot mountaineer who climbs
                                Some Alpine crag, should loiter on the brink
                                To pluck the gentian or the mountain pink.
                            
                            
                                “But in a myriad women, none I found
                                So filled and flushed with Life’s exuberant tide
                                That through uncounted ages it could bound
                                And ne’er grow stagnant, weak, or satisfied;
                                No joy so rich and vital, that undrowned
                                On the broad flood in triumph it could ride:
                                How should a fragile creature, fashioned fair
                                For her brief hour, my endless being share?
                            
                            
                                “But now I have my kingdom and have you
                                Gloriously framed for an immortal fate,
                                Almost that regal beauty might subdue
                                Grim Death, and his predestined hour undate:
                                Sing and exult! for we the World make new,
                                Our dual Star all trancëd hopes await;
                                The Future is our own—who will may claim
                                The unregretted Past, of deathful fame.
                            
                            
                            
                                “And you to?night, this very night, shall drink
                                Immortal Life.” He ceased, and fixed on her
                                That look, where all the æons seemed to sink
                                In one bright Now; but did my senses err,
                                Or did I see her for an instant shrink
                                Before she answered, “Dearest harbinger
                                Of gladness!” with a smile so softly bright
                                That I believed it in my own despite.
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            II.
                            
                                THE Vision changed. And now I saw the Queen
                                In a fair garden loiter; at her side
                                Was one of stalwart frame and princely mien,
                                His dark eyes bright with passion and with pride,
                                Yet not her lord. They reached an arbour green,
                                Blossomed with roses, and o’er?canopied
                                With bowering trees; nor marked amid the shade
                                A slim shape rustle, like a Dryad?maid.
                            
                            
                                Marah was speaking, “’Tis a wondrous tale!
                                He has the true Elixir—deems me fit
                                To share it. Marvel not that I am pale!
                                Oh weary fancy, nevermore to quit
                                His side, but while the ages drag and trail
                                In his Elysian theatre to sit,
                                Or act in dramas classic and sublime
                                Until I almost long for pantomime!
                            
                            
                            
                                “I could have loved him; but he is a god,
                                And I am not a goddess or a saint;
                                For twenty generations he has trod
                                This evil earth, seeing through rags and paint
                                To its vile heart; and now he bids me plod
                                With him for slow millennia: sooth, ’tis quaint
                                That I am chosen by this clear?eyed
                                    sage
                                His Empress, and ensample to the Age!
                            
                            
                                “I’d worship him, if he were carved in marble,
                                And every morning I could come and kneel
                                Before his sacred shrine, and softly warble
                                The shivering adoration that I feel,
                                Nor need his philanthropic Law to garble
                                With any gloss of selfish woe or weal;
                                Then could I yield, like pious Christians many,
                                The pound to Cæsar, and to God the penny.
                            
                            
                                “At first, indeed, ’twas sweet and wonderful
                                To feel my spirit floating, cradled soft
                                As on some eagle’s wings, who left the dull,
                                Stale, petty world, and as he soared aloft
                                Seemed all my meaner longings to annul;
                                But after journeying sunward long and oft
                                I hunger and grow faint; the naked glare
                                Is too intense, the atmosphere too rare.
                            
                            
                            
                                “I have not sinned—not yet—but I am weary
                                Of all the glories of these ether?flights;
                                I’m tired of listening to the concert sphery,
                                Dizzy with gazing from Olympian heights:
                                Dear mortal planet, unideal, cheery,
                                Oh give me back thy motley?hued delights—
                                Give me, for solemn?chanting sun and moon,
                                A gas?lit ball?room, and a lilting tune!
                            
                            
                                “I love my life; and yet a Life Eternal
                                Is something far too serious and too vast:
                                ’Twere well, I own, to keep one’s beauty vernal,
                                But even vanity might pall at last;
                                Better to tempt at once the Powers Infernal
                                Than with an ever?young enthusiast
                                Live for Humanity, its evils probe,
                                And, like old Atlas, hoist the ponderous globe.
                            
                            
                                “But he will test me—find me out some day,
                                And know with what delusive light I shone;
                                Then will he bid me in his lordly way
                                With just a touch of sorrow—‘Hence—begone!’
                                Or else will strip the gauzy wings so gay
                                From his poor worthless weak ephemeron:
                                Cruel it were, the fire?fly’s life to mar,
                                Because it is an insect, not a star!
                                
                                
                                    “Hear me, good Hubert! yet you are not good—
                                    He is a whole infinitude above
                                    Your noblest; I were happy, if I could
                                    Cleave to him, wed his thought, his virtues
                                        prove:
                                    Were I the archetype of womanhood
                                    As he of manhood, then we two might love;
                                    Then should I deem your passion, at the best,
                                    But a dull fable, or a sorry jest.
                                
                                
                                    “Nay, Hubert, do not frown! I like you well;
                                    I am a woman of the world, you know,
                                    Too tired by far to rave about the spell
                                    Of mutual love, and tremblingly to glow
                                    With girlish raptures; but to you I tell
                                    My thoughts and wishes, be they high or low—
                                    That frown again—oh free me from this bond,
                                    Then shall you find me sweet, caressing, fond!
                                
                                
                                    “Oh set me free! bear me away, away,
                                    To cold Kamschatka or to burning Ind—
                                    If you should shrink or fail, I needs must pray
                                    Some ocean current or some rushing wind
                                    To take me—I am mean, and must obey
                                    My own mean heart; the boast, ‘I have not
                                        sinned,’
                                    Was vain; for sinned I have in wish and thought—
                                    Cares Conscience in what stuff the sin is wrought?”
                                
                                
                                
                                    He clasped her close. “Fair Queen of my desire,
                                    Flower of all loveliness! I do your will
                                    Because it is my own, with heart on fire—
                                    But from the plan is one thing lacking still;
                                    For we two, sweetest Marah, could not
                                        tire,
                                    And in millennia could not take our fill
                                    Of joyance—we should gaily revel on,
                                    And wondering cry—‘Another cycle gone!’
                                
                                
                                    “Short life is all a mocking game of chance;
                                    Years are the counters—one by one we lose
                                    And soon grow bankrupt—lucky Circumstance
                                    Comes late, and we its blandishments refuse
                                    Because we are too old to sing or dance,
                                    Love we forget, and wealth we cannot use:
                                    Man stakes his all upon a single cast—
                                    Give him a myriad, and he wins at last.
                                
                                
                                    “Then let us of that magic wine partake
                                    This night, and fathom all the depths of
                                        pleasure,
                                    And live without satiety or ache
                                    Our feastful days, that Time forgets to
                                        measure:
                                    How shall we cheat this chemist?King, and make
                                    Ourselves possessors of his liquid treasure?
                                    His servants love him; vainly should we try
                                    With stores of gold the loyal fools to buy.
                                
                                
                                
                                    “But I will give you a prepotent draught
                                    To set before your deathless lord to?night,
                                    Saying—‘Come, pledge me! not till you have quaffed
                                    This cup, I taste of your Elixir’s might!’
                                    So shall we capture life and love by craft,
                                    For as he drinks, he will be reft of sight,
                                    Hearing, and thought, by slumber—you are free!
                                    Then quick! the goblet seize, and haste to me
                                
                                
                                    “That we may drink deep, deep, of boundless bliss”—
                                    But she—“It is not poison?” faintly asked—
                                    “To poison he is mortal—spare me this!”
                                    Lord Hubert turned aside; the fiend unmasked
                                    Glared from his face; but soon with tender kiss
                                    Again his power of smooth deceit he tasked,
                                    Saying—“This potion does not harm, but cures—
                                    I would not hurt a hound that had been yours!”
                                
                                
                                    The foliage shook; they saw a light shape spring,
                                    And toward the palace dart. “We are
                                        betrayed,”
                                    Cried Marah, “hastes she not to warn the King?
                                    Prate, ready tongue!—a ready hand had stayed
                                    Her flight. I know her—heard her carolling
                                    That foolish story of the beggar?maid
                                    And King Cophetua, long ere I was doomed
                                    To life, and in immortal love entombed.”
                                
                                
                                
                                    Leaving the guilty pair in their dismay,
                                    My dream pursued the maiden’s flying feet;
                                    Fragile she was, and slender as a fay,
                                    Fair streamed her tresses as she glided
                                        fleet,
                                    Her white robe flashed—she sped with no delay
                                    Till at the gate I heard her voice entreat
                                    That she might see her sovereign, kind to grant
                                    The prayers of many a humble suppliant.
                                
                                
                                    They led her where he sate; then, cowering low,
                                    She said—“My liege, I oft have made your
                                        sport—
                                    You know me not, perchance—how should you know
                                    A simple singing?maiden of your court?
                                    I would not seek you for my private woe,
                                    But I have that to tell which would extort
                                    Language, though I were dumb, and give me breath
                                    For warning speech, though cold I lay in death.”
                                
                                
                                    She faltered—then at once she oped the sluice
                                    Of words and tears, and told the plot
                                        accurst,
                                    Adding at last, in weeping self?excuse—
                                    “I had not stayed to listen, but the first
                                    Word of the Queen foreshadowed some abuse
                                    Of your deep love—must I not learn the worst,
                                    And fly to save my monarch from the snare?
                                    Trust me, oh King! I have no other prayer.”
                                
                                
                                
                                    But he abashed her with a searching look—
                                    “You have an honest face,” he said, “but sure
                                    A most deceiving fancy; you mistook
                                    Faces or meanings. Nay! I am secure—
                                    Go, foolish damsel, to your singing?book!
                                    Hubert I trust not, but the Queen is pure—
                                    Pure as the radiant ether. She shall come
                                    And speak her innocence, and strike you dumb.”
                                
                                
                                    He said and smiled; then to the Queen he sent
                                    Praying her presence. Marah came, with lips
                                    Pale but firm?set, and haughty eyes that meant
                                    To look unchanged on glory or eclipse;
                                    But when she saw her lord, that bold intent
                                    Slipped from her, like the outworn slough that
                                        slips
                                    From a snake’s body; and forgetting pride
                                    She fell before him. “I have sinned,” she cried,
                                
                                
                                    “And am not worthy to be called your wife—
                                    No, nor your slave! That coward in will and
                                        deed,
                                    Whose false lips bade me steal your cup of life,
                                    Has fled, and basely left me at my need,
                                    A double traitor. Let the vengeful knife
                                    End my despair—nay, rather will I plead
                                    That you, so merciful, will grant me time
                                    For penitence—perchance forgive my crime
                                
                                
                                
                                    “At last, and—dare I think it?—in the end
                                    Take back the woman whom you justly spurned,
                                    To be—ah, not your wife—but yet your friend,
                                    Long hence, when all my follies are
                                        unlearned:
                                    Oh, by the love you bore me, hear and bend,
                                    And pardon!” But from that fair form he
                                        turned
                                    As from some loathly creature misbegot—
                                    Crying—“Nay, woman! of my love speak not—
                                
                                
                                    “What I loved is not, and has never
                                        been;
                                    It dies where it was born—in my own heart;
                                    Yours are the form, the features, and the mien,
                                    As Hell may hold a seraph’s counterpart:
                                    But I reproach you not; I should have seen,
                                    I should have better known the Siren’s art:
                                    Shall not the sage Physician’s blame be mute
                                    When he has pressed for wine the
                                        poison?fruit?
                                
                                
                                    “You were to me a light, illusive ghost,
                                    Not living flesh: as though a man should find
                                    Some portrait fair, and foolishly should boast
                                    That he in eyes and lips can read the mind,
                                    And know the heart’s recesses innermost,
                                    And so should give himself with passion blind
                                    To a mere phantom—worshipping perchance
                                    The painter’s flattery of a harlot’s glance.
                                
                                
                                
                                    “You loved your life—the life you understood:
                                    No man but prizes that which he may call
                                    His life, and lightly names that primal good
                                    In common phrase, and symbols read by all,
                                    Yet new translated by each alien mood:
                                    The freeman speaks one language with the
                                        thrall,
                                    And yet the simplest words of love and hate,
                                    Passing from one to other, shed their freight.
                                
                                
                                    “Calm is my speech, because my heart is cold,
                                    Cold, cold, by you fast frozen. Go your way—
                                    For when that luring fairness I behold,
                                    And hear the voice, well?loved but yesterday,
                                    I feel as when I grew infirm and old,
                                    And Life fled from me with a mocking Nay:
                                    Go, Marah—soul and body you bereave
                                    Of youth, and only Age’s heart?ache leave.”
                                
                                
                                    “Marah!” She seemed to shudder at the name;
                                    Perchance some tardy touch of penitence
                                    Or late?awakening love had stirred her frame,
                                    Deep?thrilling till it pricked the inward
                                        sense:
                                    Trembling she rose, and hung her head in shame
                                    As though her beauty mirrored her offence;
                                    Then forth she went, with slow, uncertain pace,
                                    And hands that strove to hide her drooping face.
                                
                                
                                
                                    Now the pale singing?maiden dared to draw
                                    Near to the King, till at his feet she knelt,
                                    But silently she gazed, held back by awe
                                    From murmuring or from chanting what she
                                        felt;
                                    And when the timid, upturned look he saw
                                    Gently he spoke—“Fear not—for you have dealt
                                    Wisely and loyally; you shall not lose
                                    Your recompense.” But she replied— “I choose
                                
                                
                                    “No thanks, or else an infinite reward—
                                    Make me immortal! not that life is sweet,
                                    But should your grace this sovereign boon accord
                                    I may learn wisdom, sitting at your feet;
                                    Till haply, in a myriad years, my Lord
                                    Might deem me worthy—but it is not meet
                                    To babble thus.” That shame was in her cheeks,
                                    Which, striving to be secret, plainlier speaks.
                                
                                
                                    He laid a pitying hand upon her head—
                                    “Peace, gentle child! You know not what you
                                        seek;
                                    Calm is the grave, and restful are the dead,
                                    But Life is rude, and tempest?tost, and
                                        bleak,
                                    And you will tire ere threescore years have sped:
                                    Your nature is too womanly and weak
                                    To drink my cup, or watch one age with me
                                    In the World’s garden of Gethsemane.”
                                
                                
                                
                                    Then she too stole away, and he was left
                                    In darkness and alone. I thought he strove
                                    To disentangle all the ravelled weft
                                    Of wrath and weariness, and scorn and love;
                                    At first like the unquiet shade, long reft
                                    Of hope, who paces some Tartarean grove:
                                    But when he spoke, his voice, though sad, untuned,
                                    Told not of an immedicable wound.
                                
                                
                                    “Marah! with mind that might have soared beyond
                                    The highest Heaven of woman, yet was bent
                                    Even to Hell! was it for you I conned
                                    The World—an age to every lineament?
                                    If I were mortal, now must I despond,
                                    Or from despair step downward to content:
                                    But he whose portion is perpetual youth
                                    May watch and fail, and still have time for Truth.
                                
                                
                                    “Love shrivels to black dust, but leaves alive
                                    Duty and Hope. When not a flower remains
                                    Unblighted, still the leafy boughs survive,
                                    And still the sap is mounting in their veins;
                                    No more, no more, my lonely life shall strive
                                    To put forth blossoms, nurturing
                                        canker?stains;
                                    Yet shall the tree aspire, and gather might
                                    By broader foliage from a clearer light.
                                
                                
                                
                                    “Too late, too late! such dolorous cry was mine,
                                    Such words my doubting spirit sighed of yore;
                                    They are the brand of death—the fatal sign
                                    Proving wise man, with all his dear?bought
                                        lore
                                    Of evil and of good, not yet divine:
                                    ‘Too late, too late!’ I know the words no
                                        more—
                                    ‘Live and prevail!’ is written in their stead,
                                    In golden letters for their sanguined red.
                                
                                
                                    “Death, living death! thou canst not bid me grieve
                                    Eternally, because a woman’s lip
                                    Was beautiful and cunning to deceive:
                                    Now, since nor love is mine nor fellowship,
                                    More gloriously my life I will enweave
                                    With general gladness, and for ever strip
                                    My soul of passion; even as the Sun
                                    Lavishes glowing heat, but garners none.
                                
                                
                                    “All private hope is frail and fugitive,
                                    Dead if it miss or if it reach its goal;
                                    There is one way of peace, but one—to live
                                    The universal Life; to make the whole
                                    Of Nature mine; to feel the laws which give
                                    Form to her Being, sovereign in my soul:
                                    By this one road, enfranchisement I gain
                                    From the heart?stifling narrowness of pain.
                                
                                
                                
                                    “Thus I exalt this anguish finely?nerved
                                    To poignant thought and aspiration keen:
                                    Oh Life, stern Life, for whom in woe I served,
                                    Whose veilëd beauty I so long have seen,
                                    If such reward thy votary deserved,
                                    If this thy warrior’s guerdon should have
                                        been,
                                    At last, at last, be perfect bounty shown,
                                    And all thy pulses vibrate in my own!
                                
                                
                                    “Come to me, come to me, from sea and star!
                                    From all thy homes, from all thy fountains,
                                        come!
                                    Oh let me feel thy throbbings near and far,
                                    And give full utterance to thy voices dumb:
                                    Make me thy true, thy radiant Avatar,
                                    And in my action concentrate the sum
                                    Of thy unseen endeavours; let its plan
                                    Image the secret destiny of Man.
                                
                                
                                    “Surely thy end and meaning is not loss,
                                    Surely thou workest to some joy untold;
                                    Some Book of Life there is, not writ across
                                    With runes of woe and dirges manifold;
                                    Some fire thou hast, to purge away the dross
                                    Of Death, deep grainëd in thy purest gold:
                                    From all things save the quintessence of Thee—
                                    From Hate, from Love—oh Life, deliver me!”
                                
                                
                                
                                    Then was he silent; in that human breast
                                    Immortal, sorrow seemed at war with thought;
                                    The tears burst forth: like the empoisoned vest
                                    Of Jove?born Heracles, remembrance wrought:
                                    Fainter, more distant, grew the murmurs pressed
                                    From that heroic heart; my Vision, fraught
                                    With marvels, faded, and a chilly stream
                                    Of work?day light poured in and quenched the dream.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                        
                
            
            
            
                
                    
                    THE STORY OF CLARICE.
                    
                    
                        THE STORY OF CLARICE.
                        
                            I.
                            
                                IN an old house, wind?haunted, bare, and grim,
                                Fair Clarice and her father lived alone
                                With books for comrades; books were slaves to him
                                But friends to her; among them she had grown
                                For well?nigh twenty summers; though the sage
                                Who gave her being, scarcely knew her age.
                            
                            
                                Like a wise pedlar, vending where he can
                                A ribbon, a gilt pin, a crystal bead,
                                That yellow, smoke?dried, literary man
                                Wrote books that all might quote, though none would
                                    read:
                                He raked the dust?heaps of the Court of France,
                                And left his daughter to herself—and Chance.
                            
                            
                                But she, in virgin majesty serene,
                                Whom few had dared to love, and none to woo,
                                Wore learning as a long?descended queen
                                Her robes and crown doth royally endue;
                                As though what others con with aching head
                                This maiden knew by right inherited.
                            
                            
                            
                                Stately, with clear grey eyes and flaxen hair,
                                She might have seemed Athene, wise and chaste,
                                Save that no lofty helmet she did wear,
                                Nor ægis buckled to her slender waist;
                                Nor could she teach what worldly snares to shun,
                                As the great Goddess taught Ulysses’ son.
                            
                            
                                Grave was her mouth, and yet was formed for smiles;
                                Pale were her cheeks—how lovely, had they
                                    blushed!
                                No sweet gay looks were hers, no girlish wiles:
                                Not that her woman’s instincts had been crushed;
                                But, like azaleas in a darkened room,
                                They had not air and light enough to bloom.
                            
                            
                                I said the maid was left to Chance—’tis true—
                                But that Divinity has divers shapes;
                                Now, she appears an apple rich of hue,
                                Eve’s fruit or Discord’s—now, the juice of
                                    grapes,
                                Promising mirth—now, a fair human form,
                                With tender words, and sighs, and love?looks warm.
                            
                            
                                She came to Clarice as a scholar young,
                                The secretary of her pedant sire;
                                Gentle of mien and eloquent of tongue
                                He spoke with something of a poet’s fire:
                                Well might accomplished Wilfred hope to gain
                                The maiden’s guileless heart and book?learn’d brain.
                            
                            
                            
                                His mind was all o’ergrown with metaphor,
                                With tropes that simulate and stifle thought;
                                Right glibly could he wage a wordy war,
                                Skilled in debate, not lightly tripped or caught:
                                Yet oft with her he faltered and grew hoarse,
                                And lost the gilded thread of his discourse.
                            
                            
                                His face—in sooth, it was a handsome face,
                                Quick to express whate’er he dreamed or felt;
                                His dark eyes glowed with all?subduing grace,
                                Sure of their power to brighten, kindle, melt:
                                Yet Wilfred’s practised heart poor Clarice stole,
                                And reigned unconscious tyrant of his soul.
                            
                            
                                For, spite of all her wisdom, she was still
                                So calm, so child?like, and so marble?cold,
                                She did not know he loved her, nor had skill
                                To read in looks what no sweet words had told:
                                Though tales of love her spirit oft could reach
                                Like distant warblings in a foreign speech.
                            
                            
                                She knew the woes of Dido; she could tell
                                How Helen set the towers of Troy ablaze:
                                She thought of Love as a forgotten spell,.
                                Potent in far?off lands, in ancient days;
                                Obsolete now, like Magic black and white,
                                Or the Emission Theory of Light.
                            
                            
                            
                                But once she prayed the youth, his day
                                        ’
                                         
                                    s work done,
                                To read, and she would listen: with fresh hopes
                                He took the philosophic malison
                                Of Schopenhauer, king of misanthropes,
                                And chose the chapter where a sunny mist
                                Floats o’er the pages of the Pessimist.
                            
                            
                                For there, in mildest mood, he tells how Art
                                Reveals the pure Idea, soothes desire,
                                Sets free the mind, and heals the aching heart;
                                But chief he vaunts the magic of the lyre—
                                Sweet peace and tranquil ecstasy it gives,
                                And breathes the inmost life of all that lives.
                            
                            
                                So rapt was queenly Clarice, so intent
                                On Wilfred’s voice, he could not meet her look;
                                Its very chillness fired him—on he went,
                                Halting and stammering—then flung down the book
                                And spoke and gazed as every man, not dunce
                                Or icicle, has gazed and spoken once.
                            
                            
                                “Too long have I stood blindfold on the brink
                                Of Heaven or Hell; and now I dare at length
                                To pray for sight—I scarce can speak or think
                                Because with all my soul and all my strength
                                And all my life I love you—Clarice, hear!”
                                And his voice quivered with a passionate fear.
                            
                            
                            
                                Oh gentle heart that could not understand!
                                Oh cruel calm in wondering childlike eyes!
                                She let him clasp her unresponsive hand,
                                And froze him with her innocent surprise—
                                Then plucked her hand away, cut short his prayer,
                                Fled from the room, and left him planted there.
                            
                            
                                Blankly he stood; one miserable course
                                Alone remained—to take his hat, and go—
                                Though still he kept the lover’s sad resource,
                                To rail on the cold heart that made his woe,
                                And switch with savage cane the wayside flower,
                                And curse himself, and Fate, and Schopenhauer.
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            II.
                            
                                CLARICE awoke next morning with the sense
                                That something she had found, and something lost;
                                A little pain she felt, but knew not whence,
                                A little loosening of her vestal frost:
                                And she was sad for him—not knowing yet
                                How lightly men can love, how soon forget.
                            
                            
                                ’Twas a grey, misty, miserable day,
                                And he would sit, she thought, alone and drear
                                In dingy lodgings; or perchance would stray
                                Out in the busy street, with none to cheer,
                                No one to sound his lonely heart’s abysm,
                                And comfort him with German Pessimism.
                            
                            
                                A stirring as of springtide he had wrought
                                In that fair breast which yet he could not win;
                                She pitied, and she wondered, and she thought:
                                They say that Pity is to Love akin—
                                Agreed—with one important reservation—
                                She is at best a very poor relation.
                            
                            
                            
                                For Clarice neither loved the swain himself,
                                Nor dreamed of being some day some one’s wife;
                                But he, like those great Germans on the shelf,
                                Suggested a new way of viewing life:
                                The first poor swallow does not make a summer,
                                Yet is he a thrice memorable comer.
                            
                            
                                Her father—might she speak to him? In vain!
                                He would have scorned a modern love affair;
                                It never entered his most learned brain
                                That this unmothered daughter needed care;
                                And he was seeking, in that dust?heap dark,
                                Some mouldy scandal touching Joan of Arc.
                            
                            
                                She had no comrades; books were all her friends;
                                And even these had failed her utterly,
                                For none could teach her how to make amends,
                                None could restore her nature’s harmony;
                                Nor found she any grief so vague as hers
                                Recorded by the ancient chroniclers.
                            
                            
                                The classic beauty either loves her wooer,
                                Or else she hates him in the same degree:
                                Daphne was glad to ’scape her bright pursuer
                                By branching out into a laurel?tree;
                                Queen Dido slew herself that luckless day
                                When the too pious Trojan sailed away.
                            
                            
                            
                                These old companions have no kindly aid
                                For any heart in lore of love unlearned;
                                So, of her fluctuating thoughts afraid,
                                To Spenser and to Shakespeare Clarice turned,
                                And read of all sweet ladies wooed by men,
                                From Una chaste to wifely Imogen.
                            
                            
                                She read, and pondered, and read o’er again
                                The moonlight vows of glowing Juliet;
                                She read how scorning doubt, delay, and pain,
                                Sir Scudamour found white?robed Amoret,
                                And led her by the coy resisting hand
                                From sovran Cytherea’s priestess?band.
                            
                            
                                And much she marvelled how such things might be;
                                “And such things are,” she thought, “this very
                                    day,
                                But Heaven in grace has left me fancy?free,
                                And this is well; and he is
                                    gone away:
                                My father now must analyse alone
                                Those blotches on the shield of valiant Joan.”
                            
                            
                                But, as the days and weeks and months went on,
                                Less calm she grew; more anxious to believe
                                That she was happier since the youth had gone,
                                That she was no fond simple girl, to grieve
                                For a mere fantasy; but ne’ertheless
                                She oft forgot her reasoned happiness.
                            
                            
                            
                                And having no one else to think about,
                                She thought of Wilfred; seemed to see him, hear
                                Him speak: and his successor was a lout
                                Who made that inward vision doubly clear;
                                For slow he was of speech, and dull of eye,
                                And short, and round, and rubicund, and shy.
                            
                            
                                In study and in dreams, one long year passed:
                                The house seemed shadowed by some direful ban:
                                For every day was lonelier than the last,
                                Each book the dullest ever writ by man:
                                Clarice had half begun to doubt her boast,
                                When—a three?volume novel came by post!
                            
                            
                                She knew the writing—rapid, firm, and fine;
                                She looked within—and there was Wilfred’s name—
                                The letters rose and danced along the line,
                                Mocking her quivering lips and cheeks aflame;
                                This was his book, his voice, his heart; she sighed,
                                And turned the leaves with a sad thrill of pride.
                            
                            
                                ’Twas the first novel she had ever read—
                                Think of it, Mudie’s votaries and Smith’s!
                                Ambrosially her sky?born soul was fed
                                On the sun’s poetry in old?world myths,
                                But never knew what wealth of weed and flower
                                His tireless beams engender hour by hour.
                            
                            
                            
                                And Wilfred’s heroine was a maiden queen
                                Like Clarice, bred on such Olympian food:
                                Surely she saw her own transfigured mien—
                                “But no,” she thought, “for I am not so good,
                                So fair—some other’s portrait this must be,
                                And her he loves, and has forgotten me.”
                            
                            
                                She read with pain and pleasure; new she pored,
                                Jealously, o’er some page with passion fraught,
                                And wondered what fair Goddess he adored;
                                Now, her heart sprang to meet some bright?clad
                                    thought;
                                For thoughts there were, rich ears of harvest?gold,
                                Not choked with tares and poppies, as of old.
                            
                            
                                Not one day thus she pored, but many days;
                                She knew the volumes three almost by heart,
                                She lived in the book’s life, thought in its phrase,
                                And so for weeks she conned and mused apart;
                                Till, as it chanced, one afternoon there came
                                A visitor of antiquarian fame.
                            
                            
                                A blear?eyed bookworm; yet he was a shade
                                More human than her father; he had penned
                                Stout vindications of the slandered Maid
                                Of Orleans, till he half estranged his friend:
                                He took the scutcheon of that virgin knight,
                                And either whitewashed, or else washed it white.
                            
                            
                            
                                Now the pair sat and argued; but at last
                                The visitor, right glad to end the strife
                                When Clarice entered, left the angry past,
                                And stooped to safer themes of modern life;
                                Of dynamite he spoke, and what could ail
                                The Irish; then of books—of Wilfred’s tale.
                            
                            
                                “The book is good—or rather, not so bad
                                As one might augur from its great success;
                                You know the young romancer—it is sad
                                When budding brains are doomed to idleness;
                                For he is ill—they say, in doubtful case,
                                Alone, in lodgings,”—and he named the place.
                            
                            
                                Poor Clarice stole away; the old man’s words
                                Chilled her like death; she saw the sun grow dim,
                                And like the fluttering of imprisoned birds
                                She felt wild pulses throb in every limb:
                                To a dull corner of her room she crept,
                                And there, till night was black, she crouched and wept.
                            
                            
                                But in the midnight watches she began,
                                Thinking of his pain, to forget
                                    her own;
                                And all her strenuous soul was bent to plan
                                How she might aid him; for that word—“Alone,”
                                Rang in her ears; she knew, as ne’er before,
                                The load of bitter meaning that it bore.
                            
                            
                            
                                Pure innocence—what counsellor is worse?—
                                Guided and guarded her in all she did;
                                She had no friend, not even an old nurse,
                                To tell her what was lawful, what forbid;
                                And so resolved—lacking such nurse or friend—
                                That Wilfred she must seek, and watch, and tend.
                            
                            
                                Then Clarice slept, and dreamed that Wilfred’s book
                                Became a world; its chapters palaces;
                                And she its Goddess: but an earthquake shook
                                The domes of light and rainbow terraces:
                                The miraged earth engulphed its phantom race,
                                And left its two Immortals face to face.
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            III.
                            
                                “HOW lightly men can love, how soon forget!”
                                I said—yet some there be not false or fickle:
                                For one, the blind god wings an arrowlet
                                No deadlier pointed than a sweetbriar prickle;
                                For one, a dart fledged with Tartarean flame,
                                Barbed, venomed, and thrice cursed in Hecate’s name.
                            
                            
                                Neither the rose?thorn nor the poisoned arrow
                                Was sped for Wilfred—but a keen?tipped shaft,
                                That rankled deep, yet pierced not bone and marrow,
                                And still he dined, debated, jested, laughed;
                                The while his heart was like a tooth, whose fang
                                Aches with dull woe, or with fierce throbbing pang.
                            
                            
                                For one bright image lived before his eyes;
                                Where’er he moved, the haunting shape was there:
                                And long he pondered what rich sacrifice
                                Could win its beauty; till the vision fair,
                                As saint from heaven instructs an eremite,
                                Taught her sad thrall to worship her aright.
                            
                            
                            
                                She made herself the centre of a world
                                Peopled with gracious phantoms indistinct;
                                But, as he gazed, a golden mist upfurled,
                                And all was clearly shaped, and brightly tinct:
                                How could he choose but chronicle from far
                                The story of that new?created star?
                            
                            
                                And thus he dreamed and wrote, until his dream
                                Was all set forth in fine?writ manuscript;
                                He felt, at the last page of the last ream,
                                As though in some great argosy he shipped
                                His wealth; not with the trader’s avarice keen,
                                But as the hard?won ransom of a queen.
                            
                            
                                And the book prospered wheresoe’er it went;
                                Much fame had Wilfred, and a little gold,
                                Yet thought of the one copy that he sent
                                To Clarice, more than of the hundreds sold;
                                And for her smile, had been content to lose
                                Even the most nectareous of reviews.
                            
                            
                                ’Tis sweet, in truth, to feel oneself a god
                                Shaping with words a spirit?universe,
                                Touching to various life the formless clod,
                                Winning fresh glory e’en from Fate perverse,
                                That foe to plans divine and human toils,
                                Which like a snake in every Eden coils.
                            
                            
                            
                                Such deities are mortal; and when these,
                                As once their sire Apollo, love in vain,
                                And grant the willing mind no hour of ease,
                                But still toward high achievement strive and
                                    strain,
                                What marvel if the genial visage pales,
                                And the pulse languishes, and the strength fails?
                            
                            
                                ’Twas thus with Wilfred; though the bookworm old
                                Had somewhat overdrawn his piteous plight,
                                Most truly might that learned man have told
                                Of many a torpid day and tossing night,
                                Filled with sick hope of one approving line
                                From Clarice—but there came no word or sign.
                            
                            
                                One cheerless afternoon, upon his couch
                                Brooding he lay; there came a tap—the door
                                Soft?opened—sure his dazzled eyes could vouch
                                That the fair image kept in his heart’s core
                                They saw; come haply as a cruel wraith,
                                With cold ethereal gifts to mock his faith.
                            
                            
                                The maiden entered; the dim light aslant
                                On his pale face, constrained her like a charm;
                                She felt and seemed a spectral visitant
                                Of one in mortal straits; on languid arm
                                He raised himself, with an uncertain cry
                                Of “Clarice!” and sank backward wearily.
                            
                            
                            
                                Then all the wifehood and the motherhood
                                That in her virgin heart close?hidden lay
                                Sprang forth; the voice of her quick?pulsing blood
                                Rebuked her coming, and yet murmured “Stay!”
                                She stood there an Olympian goddess mute
                                And blushing, with soft eyes irresolute.
                            
                            
                                At last she spoke—“Forgive me! but I knew
                                That you were ill, alone—and I am come
                                With fruit and medicines—if I weary you,
                                Tell me, and bid me go” —here she grew dumb,
                                And cold, and faint, and all her thoughts forgot,
                                Because so wild he gazed, yet answered not.
                            
                            
                                He lay and watched her timid attitudes,
                                The rosy colour mantling in her cheek,
                                Her faltering phrases, with brief interludes
                                Of sighs; he watched, and did not stir or speak:
                                But when, like one who in strange peril stands,
                                She tottered, grew death?pale, flung out her hands,
                            
                            
                                He rose with desperate hunger in his face,
                                Clasped her with arms that trembled as they
                                    strained,
                                Kissed the fair head that bent to his embrace,
                                The lily cheeks, the eyelids violet?veined;
                                And held her long, although she faintly strove
                                To free herself, in very fear of love.
                            
                            
                            
                                She did not know the feeling of a kiss,
                                Except her father’s—which had not been warm—
                                And now she shrank and shuddered from her bliss
                                E’en as a thirsting wretch before the storm
                                Of wind and rain, that must renew his life,
                                Unless he die in the tumultuous strife.
                            
                            
                                At length he half?released her—“Sweet,” he said,
                                “This is my fruit, my medicine; were I blind
                                Now must I see—must live, if I were dead;
                                You are my breath, my pulse, my inmost mind;
                                Music you are, whose mournfulness and mirth
                                Reveal the Will of this phantasmal Earth.”
                            
                            
                                She blushed at his remembrance of that page
                                In Schopenhauer—“Ah forgive!” she cried—
                                “I was a tame?bred goldfinch in its cage,
                                Not knowing that the world is all outside;
                                Yet such poor birds will beat the bars, and sing
                                Of hope, and build an idle nest in Spring.”
                            
                            
                                “Yet nay,” he smiled, “you are Olympian?born,
                                You are Egeria’s self, the nymph who blest
                                Rome’s king with laws from Heaven: that gloomy morn
                                When I arose from nightmare?laden rest
                                A banished man, you sent your sprite divine,
                                That pitying led me to the fountain?shrine.”
                            
                            
                            
                                What more fond vows they uttered—how they planned
                                The future’s wedded joy—I need not tell,
                                For every love?taught soul will understand;
                                Nor how, when twilight came, they broke the spell
                                Reluctantly, that Clarice home might haste,
                                Yet once again, and still once more embraced.
                            
                            
                                That night she dreamed that over fertile ground
                                And blossomed herbage the two lovers trod;
                                The air was filled with an Æolian sound
                                That sang of secret life beneath the sod,
                                And all pure fragrances of flower and fruit
                                Lived in the music of that fitful lute.
                            
                            
                                Of couching flocks it chanted; of the bird
                                Nested in shade; of all things that have breath;
                                Of human fate; and still entranced they heard,
                                And knew the harmonies of Birth and Death:
                                Till downward flowed the dream, and bore her deep
                                Into the dark unhaunted caves of Sleep.
                            
                        
                    
                        
                
            
            
            
                
                    
                    RESIPISCENTIA, Etc.
                    
                    
                    
                        RESIPISCENTIA.
                        
                            “Ye must be born again.”
                        
                        
                            FIRST VOICE.
                            
                                GOOD morrow, comrade! Whence that look elate?
                                Where are thy sins and fears, a mocking host?
                                One week ago, thou wast as I, who hate
                                Both day and night—day most.
                            
                        
                        
                            SECOND VOICE.
                            
                                Glad tidings of great joy! that host is gone!
                                I prayed to Christ an unbelieving prayer,
                                Half blasphemous, half mad—but straight there shone
                                Into my soul’s despair
                            
                            
                                A strange, pure light—then on my brow I felt
                                A healing hand, and on my sleepless eyes;
                                Till, knowing nothing, feeling all, I knelt,
                                And with deep groans and sighs
                            
                            
                            
                                Yielded to Christ my soul, its secret need,
                                Its woe, its doubt, its dread, its self?disdain,
                                Its myriad petty sins, that grow and breed,
                                And, mob?like, rule the brain.
                            
                            
                                All these he took away—he made me yield
                                The last regret, the lingering sense of wrong;
                                I am as one from year?long tortures healed,
                                Made sound, and hale, and strong—
                            
                            
                                Who every morning feels a sweet new joy
                                Because he wakes without the accustomed pain;
                                Who runs and leaps more lightly than a boy,
                                Having been born again
                            
                            
                                Into a long?forgotten world of health,
                                Where he may woo bright eyes, nor need to fear
                                That but in pity or in lust of wealth
                                They feign to hold him dear.
                            
                            
                                Where he with other men may strain and strive—
                                To win he scarcely craves—let it suffice
                                That heart, brain, limbs, so bounteously alive
                                Are his full Paradise.
                            
                            
                            
                                Oh come and taste and see what virtues lie
                                In this Elixir that has made me whole—
                                Though thou be sick to death, thou shalt not die—
                                Repent, and heal thy soul!
                            
                        
                        
                            FIRST VOICE.
                            
                                Brave words, my friend—I do not grudge thy mirth;
                                Though life be one remorse, I yet endure,
                                Well knowing there be ills upon this earth
                                Which have not any cure.
                            
                            
                                Thou hast been lame awhile, and now canst run;
                                Awhile thou hast been blind, but seest now:
                                Go, leap and praise thy God for strength new?won—
                                But I am not as thou.
                            
                            
                                Pain comes of sudden hurt or slow disease;
                                Break thou a bone, the surgeon sets it well—
                                But show him leprous sores—will he cure these?
                                Alas, thou canst not tell.
                            
                            
                            
                                Life as it is, and must be, and has been
                                No piecemeal penitence can show aright,
                                Deeming the one part foul, the other clean,
                                Here black, and there snow?white.
                            
                            
                                That this day week, I left my task unwrought;
                                That yesterday, I said not what I meant;
                                That one hour since, I grossly sinned in thought—
                                Not thus do I repent.
                            
                            
                                Nor do I lay a finger on my shame,
                                Calling this nerve, that muscle, falsely built;
                                I can but say—“This Self, this physical frame,
                                Is one incarnate Guilt.”
                            
                            
                                Could I believe thy glorious Gospel true,
                                That were no cure for this organic ill:
                                Can Christ unweave my tissues, mould anew
                                The matrix of my will?
                            
                            
                                My grief has no beginning and no end;
                                I do repent of antenatal sin,
                                Whose poisoning juices thread my veins, and blend
                                With the fresh life within.
                            
                            
                            
                                That in my blood this virus I must keep
                                To?morrow, next week, next month, all my years,
                                Until my day of death—for this I weep
                                With ignominious tears.
                            
                        
                        
                            THIRD VOICE.
                            
                                Nay, hope is thine! Who chants this grim complaint
                                Has steadfast heart, free mind, and insight keen;
                                Such man may purge away the leprous taint
                                While yet he cries “Unclean!”
                            
                            
                                Daily thy tissues die—are born afresh
                                Daily, not moving thee to joy or dole;
                                Yet all the slow mutations of thy flesh
                                Gently transmute thy soul.
                            
                            
                                Go, live in hope and labour, fearing nought;
                                Starve the foul germs of hate, and lust, and
                                    greed;
                                Force day by day thy brain to patient thought,
                                Thy hand to earnest deed.
                            
                            
                            
                                Long were the darkling months before thy birth,
                                Long years regenerate a frame defiled:
                                It may be thou shalt enter heaven on earth
                                Clean as a pure?born child.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE RECLUSE.
                        
                            “Heu! Quanto minus est cum reliquis versari, quam tui meminisse!”
                        
                        
                            HAVING known Love, all its unmeasured heights,
                            All its unfathomed depths, I go my way,
                            In full content that these supreme delights
                            Come not, like meaner pleasures, day by day.
                        
                        
                            Such lesser joys I yielded with few tears,
                            Reserving nought, paying Lovers perfect price:
                            Shall I bewail my thirty desert years,
                            I, who have lived three days in Paradise?
                        
                        
                            Nay, smile not, friend! I know not which is best,
                            Plucked rosebud, or remembered asphodel,
                            A mortal wife, or an Olympian guest:
                            Well hast thou chosen; but I, too, chose well.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        LOVE’S MIRROR.
                        
                            I LIVE with love encompassed round,
                            And glowing light that is not mine,
                            And yet am sad; for, truth to tell,
                            It is not I you love so well;
                            Some fair Immortal, robed and crowned,
                            You hold within your heart’s dear shrine.
                        
                        
                            Cast out the Goddess! let me in;
                            Faulty I am, yet all your own,
                            But this bright phantom you enthrone
                            Is such as mortal may not win.
                        
                        
                            And yet this beauty that you see
                            Is like to mine, though nobler far;
                            Your radiant guest resembles me
                            E’en as the sun is like a star.
                        
                        
                            Then keep her in your heart of hearts,
                            And let me look upon her face,
                            And learn of that transcendent grace,
                            Till all my meaner self departs,
                        
                        
                        
                            And, while I love you more and more,
                            My spirit, gazing on the light,
                            Becomes, in loveliness and might,
                            The glorious Vision you adore.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        FRIENDSHIP.
                        
                            THE human soul that crieth at thy gates,
                            Of man or woman, alien or akin,
                            ’Tis thine own Self that for admission waits—
                            Rise, let it in.
                        
                        
                            Bid not thy guest but sojourn and depart;
                            Keep him, if so it may be, till the end,
                            If thou have strength and purity of heart
                            To be his friend.
                        
                        
                            Not only, at bright morn, to wake his mind
                            With noble thoughts, and send him forth with song,
                            Nor only, when night falls, his wounds to bind;
                            But all day long
                        
                        
                            To help with love, with labour, and with lore,
                            To triumph when, by others’ aid, he wins,
                            To carry all his sorrows, and yet more—
                            To bear his sins;
                        
                        
                        
                            To keep a second conscience in thine own,
                            Which suffers wound on wound, yet strongly lives,
                            Which takes no bribe of tender look or tone,
                            And yet forgives.
                        
                        
                            But, should some mortal vileness blast with death
                            Thy love for comrade, leader, kinsman, wife—
                            Seek no elixir to restore false breath,
                            And loathsome life.
                        
                        
                            Thy love is slain—thou canst not make it whole
                            With all thy store of wine, and oil, and bread:
                            Some passions are but flesh—thine had a soul,
                            And that is dead.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        CHRIST, THE NAZARENE.
                        
                            THE copyist group was gathered round
                            A time?worn fresco, world?renowned,
                            Whose central glory once had been
                            The face of Christ, the Nazarene.
                        
                        
                            And every copyist of the crowd
                            With his own soul that face endowed,
                            Gentle, severe, majestic, mean;
                            But which was Christ, the Nazarene?
                        
                        
                            Then one who watched them made complaint,
                            And marvelled, saying, “Wherefore paint
                            Till ye be sure your eyes have seen
                            The face of Christ, the Nazarene?”
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        SONG.
                        
                            THINK not I roam afield
                            With heart untrue;
                            The gifts my rambles yield
                            Are all for you.
                        
                        
                            The bird must leave her nest
                            And fledglings five,
                            The honey?bee must rest
                            Far from her hive.
                        
                        
                            New regions I explore
                            While day is bright;
                            My heart, with richer store,
                            Goes home at night.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        TIME AND LOVE.
                        
                            TIME hobbles, but Love flies;
                            One moment, say the wise,
                            They pass together:
                            Not Cupid’s curls of gold
                            But Time’s grey forelock hold,
                            A trusty tether.
                        
                        
                            For Time, once safely caught,
                            Is servant to your thought
                            For ever after;
                            But wanton Love will snip
                            The curl you hold, and trip
                            Away with laughter.
                        
                        
                            Yet if my hint you heed,
                            With all his craft and speed,
                            He ne’er shall flout you;
                            Catch Cupid by the wing,
                            For then he cannot spring
                            To Heaven without you.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                
            
            
            
                
                    
                    EVOLUTIONAL EROTICS
                    
                    
                        SCIENTIFIC WOOING.
                        
                            I WAS a youth of studious mind,
                            Fair Science was my mistress kind,
                            And held me with attraction chemic;
                            No germs of Love attacked my heart,
                            Secured as by Pasteurian art
                            Against that fatal epidemic.
                        
                        
                            For when my daily task was o’er
                            I dreamed of H2SO4,
                            While stealing through my slumbers placid
                            Came Iodine, with violet fumes,
                            And Sulphur, with its yellow blooms,
                            And whiffs of Hydrochloric Acid.
                        
                        
                            My daily visions, thoughts, and schemes
                            With wildest hope illumed my dreams,
                            The daring dreams of trustful twenty:
                            I might accomplish my desire,
                            And set the river Thames on fire
                            If but Potassium were in plenty!
                        
                        
                        
                            Alas! that yearnings so sublime
                            Should all be blasted in their prime
                            By hazel eyes and lips vermilion!
                            Ye gods! restore the halcyon days
                            While yet I walked in Wisdom’s ways,
                            And knew not Mary Maud Trevylyan!
                        
                        
                            Yet nay! the sacrilegious prayer
                            Was not mine own, oh fairest fair!
                            Thee, dear one, will I ever cherish;
                            Thy worshipped image shall remain
                            In the grey thought?cells of my brain
                            Until their form and function perish.
                        
                        
                            Away with books, away with cram
                            For Intermediate Exam.!
                            Away with every college duty!
                            Though once Agnostic to the core,
                            A virgin Saint I now adore,
                            And swear belief in Love and Beauty.
                        
                        
                            Yet when I meet her tranquil gaze,
                            I dare not plead, I dare not praise,
                            Like other men with other lasses;
                            She’s never kind, she’s never coy,
                            She treats me simply as a boy,
                            And asks me how I like my classes!
                        
                        
                        
                            I covet not her golden dower—
                            Yet surely Love’s attractive power
                            Directly as the mass must vary—
                            But ah! inversely as the square
                            Of distance! shall I ever dare
                            To cross the gulf, and gain my Mary?
                        
                        
                            So chill she seems—and yet she might
                            Welcome with radiant heat and light
                            My courtship, if I once began it;
                            For is not e’en the palest star
                            That gleams so coldly from afar
                            A sun to some revolving planet?
                        
                        
                            My Mary! be a solar sphere!
                            Envy no comet’s mad career,
                            No arid, airless lunar crescent!
                            Oh for a spectroscope to show
                            That in thy gentle eyes doth glow
                            Love’s vapour, pure and incandescent!
                        
                        
                            Bright fancy! can I fail to please
                            If with similitudes like these
                            I lure the maid to sweet communion?
                            My suit, with Optics well begun,
                            By Magnetism shall be won,
                            And closed at last in Chemic union!
                        
                        
                        
                            At this I’ll aim, for this I’ll toil,
                            And this I’ll reach—I will, by Boyle,
                            By Avogadro, and by Davy!
                            When every science lends a trope
                            To feed my love, to fire my hope,
                            Her maiden pride must cry is “Peccavi!”
                            I’ll sing a deep Darwinian lay
                            Of little birds with plumage gay,
                            Who solved by courtship Life’s enigma;
                            I’ll teach her how the wild?flowers love,
                            And why the trembling stamens move,
                            And how the anthers kiss the stigma.
                        
                        
                            Or Mathematically true
                            With rigorous Logic will I woo,
                            And not a word I’ll say at random;
                            Till urged by Syllogistic stress,
                            She falter forth a tearful “Yes,”
                            A sweet “Quod erat
                                demonstrandum!”
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE NEW ORTHODOXY.
                        
                            SO, dear Fred, you’re not content
                            Though I quote the books you lent,
                            And I’ve kept that spray you sent
                            Of the milk?white heather;
                            For you fear I’m too “advanced”
                            To remember all that chanced
                            In the old days, when we danced,
                            Walked, and rode together.
                        
                        
                            Trust me, Fred, beneath the curls
                            Of the most “advanced” of girls,
                            Many a foolish fancy whirls,
                            Bidding Fact defiance,
                            And the simplest village maid
                            Needs not to be much afraid
                            Of her sister, sage and staid,
                            Bachelor of Science.
                        
                        
                        
                            Ah! while yet our hope was new
                            Guardians thought ’twould never do
                            That Sir Frederick’s heir should woo
                            Little Amy Merton:
                            So the budding joy they snatched
                            From our hearts, so meetly matched—
                            You to Oxford they despatched,
                            Me they sent to Girton.
                        
                        
                            Were the vows all writ in dust!
                            No—you’re one?and?twenty—just—
                            And you write—“We will, we must
                            Now, at once, be married!”
                            Nay, you plan the wedding trip!
                            Softly, sir! there’s many a slip
                            Ere the goblet to the lip
                            Finally is carried.
                        
                        
                            Oh, the wicked tales I hear!
                            Not that you at Ruskin jeer,
                            Nor that at Carlyle you sneer,
                            With his growls dyspeptic:
                            But that, having read in vain
                            Huxley, Tyndall, Clifford, Bain,
                            All the scientific train—
                            You’re a hardened sceptic!
                        
                        
                        
                            Things with fin, and claw, and hoof
                            Join to give us perfect proof
                            That our being’s warp and woof
                            We from near and far win;
                            Yet your flippant doubts you vaunt,
                            And—to please a maiden aunt—
                            You’ve been heard to say you can’t
                            Pin your faith to Darwin!
                        
                        
                            Then you jest, because Laplace
                            Said this Earth was nought but gas
                            Till the vast rotating mass
                            Denser grew and denser:
                            Something worse they whisper too,
                            But I’m sure it can’t be true—
                            For they tell me, Fred, that you
                            Scoff at Herbert Spencer!
                        
                        
                            Write—or telegraph—or call!
                            Come yourself and tell me all:
                            No fond hope shall me enthrall,
                            No regret shall sway me:
                            Yet—until the worst is said,
                            Till I know your faith is dead,
                            I remain, dear doubting Fred,
                            Your believing
                            
                                AMY.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        NATURAL SELECTION.
                        
                            I HAD found out a gift for my fair,
                            I had found where the cave?men were laid;
                            Skull, femur, and pelvis were there,
                            And spears, that of silex they made.
                        
                        
                            But he ne’er could be true, she averred,
                            Who would dig up an ancestor’s grave—
                            And I loved her the more when I heard
                            Such filial regard for the Cave.
                        
                        
                            My shelves, they are furnished with stones
                            All sorted and labelled with care,
                            And a splendid collection of bones,
                            Each one of them ancient and rare;
                        
                        
                            One would think she might like to retire
                            To my study—she calls it a “hole!”
                            Not a fossil I heard her admire,
                            But I begged it, or borrowed, or stole.
                        
                        
                        
                            But there comes an idealess lad,
                            With a strut, and a stare, and a smirk;
                            And I watch, scientific though sad,
                            The Law of Selection at work.
                        
                        
                            Of Science he hasn’t a trace,
                            He seeks not the How and the Why,
                            But he sings with an amateur’s grace,
                            And he dances much better than I.
                        
                        
                            And we know the more dandified males
                            By dance and by song win their wives—
                            ’Tis a law that with Aves
                                prevails,
                            And even in Homo
                                survives.
                        
                        
                            Shall I rage as they whirl in the valse?
                            Shall I sneer as they carol and coo?
                            Ah no! for since Chloe is false,
                            I’m certain that Darwin is true!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        SOLOMON REDIVIVUS, 1886.
                        
                            WHAT am I? Ah, you know it,
                            I am the modern Sage,
                            Seer, savant, merchant, poet—
                            I am, in brief, the Age.
                        
                        
                            Look not upon my glory
                            Of gold and sandal?wood,
                            But sit and hear a story
                            From Darwin and from Buddh.
                        
                        
                            Count not my Indian treasures,
                            All wrought in curious shapes,
                            My labours and my pleasures,
                            My peacocks and my apes;
                        
                        
                            For when you ask me riddles,
                            And when I answer each,
                            Until my fifes and fiddles
                            Burst in and drown our speech,
                        
                        
                        
                            Oh then your soul astonished
                            Must surely faint and fail,
                            Unless, by me admonished,
                            You hear our wondrous tale.
                        
                        
                            We were a soft Amœba
                            In ages past and gone,
                            Ere you were Queen Of Sheba,
                            And I King Solomon.
                        
                        
                            Unorganed, undivided,
                            We lived in happy sloth,
                            And all that you did I did,
                            One dinner nourished both:
                        
                        
                            Till you incurred the odium
                            Of fission and divorce—
                            A severed pseudopodium
                            You strayed your lonely course.
                        
                        
                            When next we met together
                            Our cycles to fulfil,
                            Each was a bag of leather,
                            With stomach and with gill.
                        
                        
                        
                            But our Ascidian morals
                            Recalled that old mischance,
                            And we avoided quarrels
                            By separate maintenance.
                        
                        
                            Long ages passed—our wishes
                            Were fetterless and free,
                            For we were jolly fishes,
                            A?swimming in the sea.
                        
                        
                            We roamed by groves of coral,
                            We watched the youngsters play—
                            The memory and the moral
                            Had vanished quite away.
                        
                        
                            Next, each became a reptile,
                            With fangs to sting and slay;
                            No wiser ever crept, I’ll
                            Assert, deny who may.
                        
                        
                            But now, disdaining trammels
                            Of scale and limbless coil,
                            Through every grade of mammals
                            We passed with upward toil.
                        
                        
                        
                            Till, anthropoid and wary
                            Appeared the parent ape,
                            And soon we grew less hairy,
                            And soon began to drape.
                        
                        
                            So, from that soft Amœba,
                            In ages past and gone,
                            You’ve grown the Queen of Sheba,
                            And I King Solomon.
                        
                    
                        
                
            
            
            
                
                    
                    SONNETS.
                    
                    
                    
                        HELOISE.
                        
                            I.
                            BRIDE.
                            
                                COME in my dreams, belovèd! though thou seem
                                Less kind, less noble, than by truthful day;
                                Even in sleep my heart has strength to say—
                                “His love is changeless—this is but a dream:”
                                Yet rather come at sunrise, with the beam
                                Of thought renewed; and still, when eve is grey,
                                Inspire me, 
                                        as
                                        at
                                     I tread my lonely way,
                                With thine own dauntless will and hope supreme.
                            
                            
                                Ah, let me die, ere meaner moods have power
                                To dim these glories that within me shine!
                                Give me black night or this unclouded sun,
                                Swift death or life immortal, in that hour
                                When all my soul is filled and fired with thine,
                                When thou and I are equal, being one.
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            II.
                            NUN.
                            
                                THIS is the doom I must henceforth fulfil:
                                To hide my heart through days, and months, and
                                    years;
                                To look in anxious eyes, and lull their fears;
                                To lose all hope, and strive with joyless will;
                                To sing and pray, scarce knowing good from ill;
                                To hear stale converse, as an idiot hears;
                                To tread the cloistered courts with burning
                                    tears,
                                Forced backward to their fount, yet rising still.
                            
                            
                                Nay, there is comfort! E’en the sick may smile,
                                Knowing for pain a swift and gentle cure;
                                I can be patient, and can wait awhile,
                                Nor curse the heedless heavens with moaning breath:
                                Though for a night my weeping may endure,
                                Joy comes with morn—that joy whose name is Death.
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            III.
                            ABBESS.
                            
                                SWEET is life’s crown of quiet; sweet is age,
                                With tranquil days, unmarred by joy or dole,
                                Void of desire, save that with just control
                                I may administer Christ’s heritage:
                                Long since he heard my vow, the heartless gage
                                Not spurning; took my tear?stained, love?writ
                                    scroll,
                                And words of strength and healing for the soul
                                Wrote with his own heart’s blood across the page.
                            
                            
                                Passion is all forgotten, pain is fled:
                                Yet oft, ’mid idle phantoms of the mind,
                                Returns my earlier Self, with scornful eyes,
                                Saying—“Thou deemest age hath made thee wise,
                                And knowest not that thou art deaf, and blind,
                                And palsied. Live in peace; for I am dead.”
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        HERCULES.
                        
                            THIS fruitage from the far Hesperides
                            I bring to great Eurystheus, feared and hated,
                            Whom I, his slave, nor hate nor fear; my fated,
                            My full reward, he has no power to seize,
                            Nor is it bought with golden gauds like these;
                            I seek supreme delights, untold, undated;
                            Of joys wherewith these kings of men are sated
                            Right little recks the Jove?born Hercules.
                        
                        
                            I live content to bear my destined burden,
                            To toil unthanked, unhonoured, void of guerdon,
                            To work a tyrant’s will through lonely years;
                            That, neither shunning pain nor scorning pleasure,
                            My strenuous soul may win Olympian leisure,
                            And dwell in peace among the Gods, my peers.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        PROMETHEUS AND PANDORA.
                        
                            THESE pangs I bear through lingering centuries
                            For slavish Man, in pity and in scorn;
                            Glad, while by birds of Jove my breast is torn
                            Till sunset, that I spurned his luring prize:
                            Yet when she came, that queen with jacinth eyes
                            August yet changeful, like the sea at morn,
                            I could have triumphed that mine Earth had borne
                            A creature fashioned in such glorious wise.
                        
                        
                            Nay! but my will were firm, though Heaven should give
                            A Goddess pure. One only gift I seek,
                            Freedom for Man; or, this renounced, I live
                            Self?sentenced to mine own immortal hate:
                            Better the rock, the chain, the eagle’s beak,
                            And this fulfilment of my chosen fate.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE NEBULAR THEORY.
                        THIS is the genesis of Heaven and Earth.
                        In the beginning was a formless mist
                        Of atoms isolate, void of life; none wist
                        Aught of its neighbour atom, nor any mirth,
                        Nor woe, save its own vibrant pang of dearth;
                        Until a cosmic motion breathed and hissed
                        And blazed through the black silence; atoms kissed,
                        Clinging and clustering, with fierce throbs of birth,
                        And raptures of keen torment, such as stings
                        Demons who wed in Tophet; the night swarmed
                        With ringèd fiery clouds, in glowing gyres
                        Rotating: æons passed: the encircling rings
                        Split into satellites; the central fires
                        Froze into suns, and thus the world was formed.
                    
                    
                    
                        THE PESSIMIST’S VISION.
                        
                            I DREAMED, and saw a modern Hell, more dread
                            Than Dante’s pageant; not with gloom and glare,
                            But all new forms of madness and despair
                            Filled it with complex tortures, some Earth?bred,
                            Some born in Hell: eternally full?fed
                            Ghosts of all foul disease?germs thronged the air:
                            And as with trembling feet I entered there,
                            A Demon barred the way, and mocking said—
                        
                        
                            “Through our dim vales and gulfs thou need’st not rove;
                            From thine own Earth and from its happiest lot
                            Thy lust for pain may draw full nourishment,
                            With poignant spice of passion; knowest thou not
                            Fiends wed for hate as mortals wed for love,
                            Yet find not much more anguish? Be content.”
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE GIFT.
                        
                            FROM Paradise there came, one Maytide morn,
                            An Almoner of love, with gifts divine:
                            To some he brought rich draughts of magic wine;
                            To some, who laboured in their fields forlorn,
                            Sweet showers and sunbeams for the springing corn;
                            Then me he called, with gracious word and sign,
                            But when I looked what bounty should be mine,
                            One fire?bright drop he gave me, as in scorn.
                        
                        
                            “Angel! to these thou givest present mirth,
                            To those, the promise of a golden crop
                            In Autumn; was my hope so little worth?”
                            Smiling, the Angel answered—“Share and prove
                            Their joy, if so thou wilt—in that one drop
                            Thou hast the life and quintessence of Love.”
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        ANDREW MARVELL’S “DEFINITION OF LOVE.”
                        
                            “My love is of a birth as rare
                            As ’tis for object strange and high;
                            It was begotten of Despair
                            Upon Impossibility.”
                        
                        
                            LOVE sought me—not the blind god infantine,
                            But Love with lucent eyes and pensive brow;
                            And as I mused with what adoring vow
                            I should accost that visitant divine,
                            He said, “Think but a thought and I am thine,
                            Exalting thee to heavenly heights, which thou
                            Without me canst not reach; yet ponder now,
                            Nor rashly to my power thy life resign;
                        
                        
                            For never will I grant thy full desire,
                            But will transpierce thy heart with many a wound,
                            And in the end will leave thee sorrowing.”
                            Then said I—“Though thy voice be sternly tuned,
                            Though still thou feed, and ne’er assuage, my fire,
                            Yet I rejoice, and take thee for my King.”
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        POET AND BOTANIST.
                        
                            FAIR are the bells of this bright?flowering weed;
                            Nectar and pollen treasuries, where grope
                            Innocent thieves; the Poet lets them ope
                            And bloom, and wither, leaving fruit and seed
                            To ripen; but the Botanist will speed
                            To win the secret of the blossom’s hope,
                            And with his cruel knife and microscope
                            Reveal the embryo life, too early freed.
                        
                        
                            Yet the mild Poet can be ruthless too,
                            Crushing the tender leaves to work a spell
                            Of love or fame; the record of the bud
                            He will not seek, but only bids it tell
                            His thoughts, and render up its deepest hue
                            To tinge his verse as with his own heart’s blood.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        SCIENCE AND PHILOSOPHY.
                        
                            WE went a?begging for a nobler creed,
                            We craved the living bread and wine of thought,
                            That Eucharist which is not sold or bought,
                            But freely given; yet, did any heed,
                            ’Twas but to offer pence, or bid us feed
                            From empty sacramental vessels, wrought
                            Of gold or brass; we spent our prayers for nought,
                            Faint and athirst with spiritual need.
                        
                        
                            Then some brought grapes, and some brought corn and yeast,
                            Plenteous and good; yet still we murmured, “Give!
                            This is scant fare when thirst and hunger cry:
                            Teach us to change our garner to a feast,
                            Preparing food by which the mind may live,
                            Perennial loaves, and flagons never dry.”
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE DOUBLE RAINBOW.
                        
                            I SAW the passions and desires of Man
                            Blent in a thousand?coloured arc of light,
                            A double rainbow; but so jewel?bright
                            The scarf of Iris had been pale and wan
                            Beside it: not the torrent?bows that span
                            A river?fall at noon; nor birds whose flight
                            Gleams ruby and gold; nor columned chrysolite
                            In caves enchanted; nought, since light began,
                        
                        
                            Could match its glories: but the inner arch
                            With Joy and Anguish too intensely burned
                            For eyes that love the cloudy robes of March
                            And April, and calm Autumn’s golden dress:
                            Half?blinded, to the outer bow they turned,
                            Soft with remembered Grief and Happiness.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        RECOMPENSE.
                        
                            THE wine?flushed monarch slept—but in his ear
                            An angel breathed—“Repent; or choose the flame
                            Quenchless.” In dread he woke, but not in shame,
                            Deep musing—“Sin I love, yet Hell I fear.”
                            Wherefore he left his feasts, and minions dear,
                            And justly ruled, and died a saint in name.
                            But when his hasting spirit heavenward came
                            A stern Voice cried—“Oh Soul! what dost thou here?”
                        
                        
                            “Love I forswore, and wine, and kept my vow
                            To live a just and joyless life, and now
                            I crave reward.” The Voice came like a knell—
                            “Fool! dost thou hope to find again thy mirth,
                            And those foul joys thou didst renounce on earth?
                            Yea, enter in! My Heaven shall be thy Hell!”
                        
                    
                    
                    
                
            
            
            
                
                    
                    TRANSLATIONS.
                    
                    
                    
                        IDEALS.
                        From the German of Schiller.
                        
                            AH faithless! canst thou thus desert me,
                            With all fair thoughts and fancies gay,
                            With all thy joys, with all thy sorrows
                            Wilt thou unpitying haste away?
                            Ah youthful prime of golden joyance,
                            Can nought delay thee, fleeting fast?
                            In vain! The river seeks the ocean,
                            Eternity engulphs the Past.
                        
                        
                            Quenched are the suns whose gladsome lustre
                            Athwart the road of youth was cast,
                            And banished all the fair Ideals
                            That fired the rapt enthusiast;
                            Dead is the faith in sweet illusions,
                            Beings that in my dream had birth,
                            And reft away their god?like beauty
                            By rude realities of Earth.
                        
                        
                        
                            As once, with ardent supplication,
                            Pygmalion clasped the sculptured form,
                            Until the pale cold cheeks of marble
                            Flushed with emotion, bright and warm;
                            So I, aflame with youthful passion,
                            Dead Nature to my bosom pressed,
                            Till she to breathe, to glow, to tremble,
                            Began upon my poet?breast;
                        
                        
                            Till, kindling to my fiery impulse,
                            At last the Dumb her silence broke,
                            With answering love returned my kisses,
                            And understood my heart that spoke:
                            The tree, the flower, for me had voices,
                            For me the silver fount could sing;
                            I felt my life’s re?echoing music
                            Give soul to every senseless thing.
                        
                        
                            A universe of mighty yearning
                            Throbbed in my bosom’s narrow bound,
                            To issue forth, to live incarnate,
                            In deed and word, in form and sound:
                            How great this world, how nobly fashioned,
                            While yet the bud contained it all!
                            How few, alas! the opened blossoms,
                            And even these, how weak and small!
                        
                        
                        
                            Oh how, on wings of dauntless courage,
                            All blissful in his dream of truth,
                            Nor yet by any care embridled,
                            Forth on Life’s journey sprang the youth!
                            His soaring aspirations bore him
                            Even to Ether’s palest star;
                            For Hope, with strong untiring pinions,
                            Was nought too high and nought too far.
                        
                        
                            How lightly was he carried onward!
                            What power could stay his glad advance?
                            How swift before Life’s rolling chariot
                            His airy escort seemed to dance!
                            For there was Love, with sweetest promise,
                            And there, with star?set crown, was Fame,
                            And Fortune with her golden chaplet,
                            And Truth all robed in sunlight came.
                        
                        
                            But ah! those bright companions vanished
                            Ere half the destined course was run,
                            They turned away their faithless footsteps,
                            Till all had left me, one by one.
                            Away fled Fortune, nimbly speeding,
                            The thirst to Know was unallayed,
                            And meeting round Truth’s sunbright image,
                            The storms of Doubt thick darkness made.
                        
                        
                        
                            I saw Fame’s crown, of old so sacred,
                            Profaned upon a vulgar head;
                            Too soon, alas, the short spring over,
                            The beauteous time of Love had fled;
                            And every hour the silence deepened,
                            And lonelier grew the rugged way,
                            Till even Hope could scarcely lighten
                            Its shadows by one pallid ray.
                        
                        
                            But which of all that frolic escort
                            Cheered with her constant love my road—
                            Stays with me still, consoles, and follows—
                            Yes, even to the dark abode?
                            Thou, gentle tender hand of Friendship,
                            Who all my sorest wounds hast bound,
                            With loving aid Life’s burdens bearing,
                            Thou, whom I early sought and found,
                        
                        
                            And thou, who journeyest with her gladly,
                            Like her canst quell the spirit’s storms;
                            Diligent Work, who wearies never,
                            Nor ruins, slowly though she forms;
                            Who in Eternity’s vast fabric
                            But grain of sand on sand?grain rears,
                            Yet from the debt?roll of the ages
                            Can strike out minutes, days, and years.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        FRAGMENTS FROM FAUST.
                        
                            I.
                            MEPHISTOPHELES ON LOGIC (PART I.)
                            
                                Meph.
                                Be careful of your time, so swiftly flies it,
                                But Order teaches how to utilise it.
                                And first, by my advice, dear friend,
                                Collegium logicum
                                    attend.
                                For there your mind is drilled and graced,
                                In Spanish boots ’tis tightly laced,
                                That now, with warier step, it may
                                Go plodding on in Thought’s highway,
                                And not, mayhap, with zigzag light,
                                Go will?o’?the?wisping left and right,
                                And there they’ll teach you, many a day,
                                That what you once did free and gay,
                                At one stroke, easy as eating and
                                    drinking,
                                Needs One! Two! Three!—the right way of thinking.
                                In the manufactory of Thought,
                                Like a weaver’s masterpiece ’tis wrought,
                                
                                Where one jerk moves a thousand
                                    threads,
                                The shuttles go shooting over and under,
                                The threads flow unseen, entwined and asunder,
                                One stroke a thousand filaments weds.
                                Then the Philosopher, in comes he,
                                And clearly proves, so must it be;
                                The First was so, the Second so,
                                Therefore the Third and Fourth were so;
                                And had the First and Second not been,
                                The Third and Fourth you ne’er had seen.
                                The students on all sides call him clever,
                                But not a student becomes a weaver.
                                To know and describe a living whole
                                One first of all drives out the soul,
                                Handles the parts and loses none,
                                Save, alas! the soul that made them one.
                                Encheiresin naturæ,
                                    Chemistry calls it,
                                Mocks itself, and knows not what befalls it.
                            
                            
                                Student.
                                I don’t seem quite to comprehend.
                            
                            
                                Meph.
                                ’Twill all go better soon, my friend,
                                When you can qualify and quantify,
                                And properly can classify.
                            
                            
                                Student.
                                 I feel so stupid after all you’ve said,
                                As though a mill?wheel went round in my head.
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            II.
                            THE BACCALAUREUS. (PART II.)
                            I TELL you this is Youth’s supreme vocation!
                            Before me was no World—’tis my creation:
                            ’Twas I who raised the Sun from out the sea;
                            The Moon began her changeful course with me;
                            Day decked herself in dazzling robes to meet me;
                            Earth budded forth with leaves and flowers to greet me;
                            I gave the signal on that primal night
                            When all the host of heaven burst forth in light.
                            Who but myself saves man from the dominion
                            Of dogmas cramping, crushing, Philistinian?
                            So, free and gay, my spirit’s voice I heed,
                            And follow where the inner light may lead,
                            Still hasting onward with a gladsome mind,
                            The Bright before me, and the Dark behind.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE EYE.
                        From the German of Emil Rittershaus.
                        
                            THE human soul—a world in little;
                            The world—a greater human soul;
                            The eye of man—a radiant mirror,
                            That clear and true reflects the whole.
                        
                        
                            And, as in every eye thou meetest
                            The mirrored image is thine own,
                            Each mortal sees his soul reflected,
                            In all the world himself alone!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        ON THE WATER.
                        From the German of Emmanuel Geibel.
                        
                            NOW hill and dale begin to bloom anew,
                            The tree?tops bud, and winds pass whispering through;
                            Faint grow the bugle?notes, with sunset’s red—
                            I would be merry, but my heart is dead.
                        
                        
                            My comrades ply their oars, and scorn delay,
                            The furrowed wave gleams back the starlight ray;
                            To the guitar the dancing boat is sped—
                            Fain were I merry, but my heart is dead.
                        
                        
                            The moon is up, and clearer shine the skies,
                            From every bosom songs of mirth arise;
                            In all our goblets wine glows darkly red—
                            Fain were I merry, but my heart is dead.
                        
                        
                            And could my Love rise up from out the grave,
                            And grant all dear delights that once she gave,
                            And say all tender words that once she said—
                            In vain! The Past is past, the Dead are dead.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        DANTE AND NINO.
                        From the Italian of Dante (“Purgatorio,” Canto VIII., v.
                            43?84).
                        AGAIN Sordello spoke— “Into this dell,
                        Among the mighty Dead, now let us go;
                        The sight of thee will please the spirits well.
                        In but three steps, meseems, I was below,
                        And gazing on me only, one came nigh,
                        Attent, as though my face he fain would know.
                        It was the time when eve englooms the sky,
                        Yet not so dusk but that a closer view
                        Made clear the darkling path from eye to eye.
                        Noble Judge Nino, how I gloried when
                        I saw thou wast not with the damnëd crew!
                        All words of courteous greeting spake we; then
                        He asked—“How long since camest thou to us
                        Beneath this mount, o’er seas beyond our ken?”
                        “I came by those dread regions dolorous
                        This morning, with my first life undecayed,
                        In hope to gain the second, journeying thus.”
                        And when they heard this answer that I made
                        He and Sordello shrank back, as in fear,
                        
                        Like folk by sudden wonder all dismayed.
                        This turned toward Virgil—that, to one who near
                        Was sitting, cried—“Up, Conrad, from thy place;
                        What God in mercy wills, come and see and hear!”
                        Then to me turning—“By that special grace
                        Granted to thee by Him, who from our sense
                        Conceals his primal Why, which none may trace—
                        When thou shalt pass beyond the seas, far hence,
                        Say to my little Joan, she must implore
                        For me, where heed is given to innocence.
                        Her mother loves me, so I think, no more,
                        Since she has cast aside the fillet white,
                        Which, heart?sick, she shall wish that still she wore.
                        From her thou mayest understand aright
                        How long will burn the fire of woman’s love
                        Not kindled fresh by daily touch and sight.
                        Less nobly will her funeral pageant move
                        Beneath the Milan warrior’s viper?shield
                        Than were Gallura’s cock emblazed above.”
                        Such words he uttered, seeming stamped and sealed
                        With that just ardour, whose attempered heat
                        His heart still cherished, and his face revealed.
                    
                        
                
            
            
            
                
                    
                    FRAGMENTS.
                    
                    
                        WINTER AND SPRING.
                        To her Grandfather on his Birthday.
                        
                            OH sweet is light that dawns from gloom,
                            And hope that springs from grief;
                            Soon bud the violets on the tomb
                            Of Winter’s despot chief.
                        
                        
                            With many a death?presaging cry,
                            Loud wails the hoary king;
                            With clouds he fortifies the sky
                            Against the warrior Spring.
                        
                        
                            But though his helmet’s plume is bright
                            With rain instead of dew,
                            With sunbeam sword the youthful knight
                            Shall cleave his passage through.
                        
                        
                            But long ere he, with victor shout,
                            The crown of earth shall win;
                            While grim old Winter rules without,
                            Our Spring sits throned within.
                        
                        
                        
                            In vain the winds, with stormy strife,
                            His first pale buds destroy,
                            If, nourished by our dearest life,
                            Still blossom Love and Joy.
                        
                        
                            For though the days are darkly sad,
                            And though the nights are drear,
                            Yet loving hearts may still be glad
                            Through all the changing year.
                        
                        
                            And even Winter on the land
                            A few fair gifts bestows,
                            Like treasures that a tyrant’s hand
                            Amid his courtiers throws.
                        
                        
                            In gardens that deserted lie
                            Some flowers may linger yet,
                            And often, in a stormy sky,
                            A few faint stars are set.
                        
                        
                            And so before the blossoms bright
                            Have decked the earth again,
                            Before the jewelled arch of light
                            Shines through the summer rain,
                        
                        
                        
                            Some days will come that lift awhile
                            Their veils of gloom and mist,
                            And, with a calm, rejoicing smile,
                            By pensive sunlight kissed.
                        
                        
                            This day is fair, though stern and cold
                            Its pallid brow may be;
                            Where others only frowns behold
                            There yet are smiles for me.
                        
                        
                            Though all the dreary land is shorn
                            Of beauty, bloom, and grace,
                            How can I choose but love the morn
                            That first beheld thy face?
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE PRIEST’S WARNING. *
                        DOST long for sunrise?—quench the vain desire,
                        And bar thy window ’gainst the eastern fire.
                        Thy fathers dwelt content in sacred night;
                        Walking by faith, they scorned unholy sight:
                        Then, reckless gazer, close in shame thine eyes,
                        And hide thy head, while morn illumes the skies:
                        Wrapped in Egyptian gloom the truth receive,
                        Lest haply thou shouldst see—and disbelieve.
                        The shapes of night, with outlines faint and blurred;
                        The sounds of night, in soft confusion heard;
                        The scents of night, that come from flowers unknown—
                        Were they not sweet, and were they not thine own?
                        And he who could not rest might see the stars
                        And moonlight beaming through his prison bars;
                        Yet blest is he who sleeps, for morning takes
                        These tender glories from the eye that wakes:
                        Yes, he who sleeps is blest; in holy dreams,
                        Originally appeared
                            in The Agnostic, February, 1885.
                        
                        Through day and night he sees the same fair beams.
                        Come, dream again; or, if thy lawless mind
                        Have seen the sun, and can no more be blind,
                        For eyes profane as thine the daylight keep,
                        Nor wake the sainted souls who yet can sleep.
                        Yon murderer, cheered with sacramental wine,
                        Has higher hopes and holier thoughts than thine.
                        ’Tis merciful to hang him, for perhaps
                        His convalescent conscience might relapse:
                        Shall new?purged eyes behold that loathsome cot,
                        That hideous home, where love and health are not?
                        Shall hands new?cleansed caress that cowering wife?
                        (Poor wretch, who knows not yet the loftier life!
                        Blighted and scarred, grown dull of heart and eye,
                        Mother of starveling children, born to die.)
                        What if the fiend, with seven more vile, returned,
                        And banished all the truth, so quickly learned?
                        Yet has he passed the mystic second birth,
                        Prepared for heaven, though quite unfit for earth.
                        Straight from the gallows shall his spirit fly
                        To join the white?robed company on high,
                        Despatched in mercy to the heavenly shore,
                        To kick his wife, to kill his friends, no more.
                        But thou, though pure thy deeds, though kind thy
                            heart,
                        In God’s free grace canst have nor lot nor part;
                        Thou, by unhallowed thirst for truth consumed,
                        With thieves, and cheats, and liars shalt be doomed:
                        
                        Thy foes thou pardonest; but thy heavenly Sire
                        Tortures his own with everlasting fire.
                        Just Ruler! when we strive the truth to win
                        A false conclusion is a damning sin:
                        If unto thee a crooked pathway leans,
                        That glorious end may sanctify the means;
                        But, if the straightest path should from thee tend,
                        The means can never sanctify the end.
                        Presumptuous man! be humbled in the dust!
                        We are the Church of God, and he is just.
                        Cling to the Cross, renounce thy fruitless search;
                        Better be deaf and blind than leave the Church.
                        Pluck out thine eyes, lest they should see too clear;
                        And lest thine ears mislead thee, cease to hear.
                        Better, a sightless cripple, save thy soul,
                        Than enter fires of hell, though sound and whole.
                        Prove sacred things by faith, if proof they need;
                        But prove not those which war against our creed:
                        Or, if thou follow Reason’s polar star,
                        Turn back in time, nor follow it too far.
                        From many a distant, night?encircled tomb
                        Comes forth an ancient voice, a sound of doom.
                        The thorn?crowned ages cry: “Return, return,
                        In haunts of death the way of life to learn.
                        Ah, wherefore pine and struggle to be free?
                        For what has liberty to do with thee?
                        Thy fathers wore their fetters to the grave;
                        
                        Then why shouldst thou disdain to be a slave?
                        Round every limb they wreathed the golden chain,
                        And what thou deemest loss they counted gain.
                        Wilt thou be free? then Christ is not thy Lord:
                        Wilt thou be true? let Hell be thy reward!”
                    
                    
                    
                        NIGHT AND MORNING.
                        
                            NIGHT.
                            
                                I LIFT to Heaven my longing eyes,
                                Knowing that yonder tranquil moon
                                Is bright for you in Spanish skies;
                                And has she power your soul to tune,
                                In subtlest harmony divine,
                                With all the passionate thoughts of mine?
                            
                            
                                No, rather let her give you rest,
                                To sleep in peace, with joy to wake;
                                Yet if a dream the slumber break,
                                Dream of my youthful soul and breast,
                                Hungered, alone, far off, and sad;
                                But dream them near, and dream them glad.
                            
                        
                        
                            MORNING.
                            The morning radiance floods my room,
                            Its tender glow my brow has kissed,
                            
                            And scattered all the night?born gloom:
                            Yon floating, thin translucent mist,
                            Pierced through and through with living gold,
                            Makes lovelier what it half enshrouds:
                            And you in distant skies behold
                            The self?same sun, but other clouds.
                            Trim English lowlands bloom for me;
                            For you Alhambra’s courts are bright;
                            For both o’er earth, and sky, and sea,
                            Through thought and passion, mind and heart,
                            Still streams the same all glorious light;
                            Earth’s barriers keep us far apart,
                            But we are one at heaven’s height.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                
            
        
        
            
            
                PRIZE WINNERS OF THE CONSTANCE NADEN ANNUAL GOLD MEDAL.
                Instituted by Dr. Lewins.
                
                    1890.—F.D. CHATTAWAY, B.Sc., Trinity College, Cambridge. Poem:
                        “Persephone: a Myth Re?set.”
                    1891.—In this year no essay was deemed worthy the medal.
                    1892.—MISS JESSIE CHARLES, B.Sc., Essay: “Evolution in
                        Relation to Ethics.”
                    1893.—MISS JANE E. PEMBERTON, Essay: “The Comparison of
                        Dante’s ‘Divina Commedia,’ Milton’s ‘Paradise Lost,’ and Klopstock’s
                        ‘Messias.’”
                
                
                Printed by Watts & Co., 17, Johnson’s Court, Fleet Street, London,
                    E.C.
            
            
            
                SOME PERSONAL AND PRESS OPINIONS OF THE WORKS OF CONSTANCE NADEN.
                
                    Personal Opinions.
                    THE Misses Emily and Edith Hughes have received many gratifying
                        letters in acknowledgment of presentation copies of Selections from
                            the Philosophical and Poetical Works of Constance Naden (fcap.
                        8vo, pp. i.?xxxii., 1?190; cloth, gilt, with portrait of Miss Naden;
                        Bickers; 3s. 6d.), among which the following are noteworthy:—
                    
                        GENERAL SIR HENRY F. PONSONBY, G.C.B. writes from Windsor
                            Castle: “I am commanded by the Queen to thank you for the copy of
                            ‘Selections from the Writings of Constance Naden’ which you have had the
                            kindness to present to Her Majesty.”
                        COUNT SECKENDORFF writes from Windsor Castle: “Count
                            Seckendorff presents his compliments to the Misses Hughes, and begs
                            leave to say that he has been commanded by Her Majesty the Empress
                            Frederick to thank them for the copy of a book, ‘Selections from the
                            Philosophical and Poetical Works of Constance Naden,’ which Her Majesty
                            has been graciously pleased to accept.”
                        MRS. JOSEPH CHAMBERLAIN writes from Highbury: “I have
                            received the book of ‘Selections from the Writings of Constance Naden’
                            with much pleasure, and desire to thank you most warmly for it. I shall
                            read it with much interest, for I remember my pleasant meeting with Miss
                            Naden, and I shall be glad to know more of what she was.”
                        MR. HERBERT SPENCER writes from 64, Avenue Road, Regent’s
                            Park, London, N.W.: “I am obliged to you for the copy received this
                            morning of your ‘Selections from Miss Naden’s Works.’ They are well
                            worth preserving, and in their present
                            form will, I should think, meet with considerable acceptance.”
                        DR. SAMUEL SMILES, author of “Self?Help,” “Lives of the
                            Engineers,” etc., writes from 8, Pembroke Gardens, Kensington, to Dr.
                            Lewins: “I am exceedingly obliged to you for the ‘Selections from the
                            Works of Miss Constance C. W. Naden,’ sent to me yesterday by Messrs.
                            Bickers & Son, publishers. The ‘Selections’ are full of profound
                            truth, and the appended poems are exceedingly interesting. The volume
                            will afford me much pleasure and profit during the approaching winter
                            season.”
                        PROFESSOR LAPWORTH, LL.D., F.R.S., writes from the Mason
                            College, Birmingham: “Please allow me to thank you most gratefully and
                            sincerely for the present of your most interesting and beautiful
                            ‘Selections from the Works of Constance C. W. Naden.’ It is a pleasure
                            to look at and an education to read. I have enjoyed myself this
                            afternoon going through it, and reading again some of our dear friend’s
                            words, so thoughtful, so far?seeing, so true, and so beautifully
                            expressed. I am sure that the book will be deeply valued by those who
                            knew and loved Miss Naden, and will do good to those who did not. I
                            think that you have selected and arranged your material and your
                            subjects very nicely indeed, so that the excerpts almost read like a
                            continuous story or argument.”
                        PROFESSOR TILDEN, D.Sc., F.R.S., writes from the Mason
                            College, Birmingham: “I cannot allow a single day to pass without
                            returning my most grateful thanks for your charming little volume. I am
                            not quite sure that I am prepared to argue that Constance Naden’s
                                forte was not poetry, but
                            philosophy. Had she lived, I think we should have seen surprising
                            developments in both directions. As it is, we who knew her feel nothing
                            but thankfulness for what she has left us. I hope your volume will have
                            the large circulation it deserves.”
                        DR. T. F. CHAVASSE writes from Edgbaston: “It is very kind of
                            you to send me the very artistic little volume containing selections
                            from the late Miss Naden’s books. It will he difficult to say whether I
                            value more the kindly feelings which prompted the authors to present me
                            with their book, or the intrinsic value of the spirit of the book
                            itself. But I nevertheless do thank you
                            very much, and, at the same time, congratulate you on the gratifying
                            results of your energy and research. I hope the book will have a large
                            sale.”
                    
                    MR. HUGHES has received many gratifying letters in acknowledgment of
                        presentation copies of Constance Laden: A Memoir (fcap. 8vo, pp. i.?xxi.,
                        1?91; cloth, gilt, with portrait of Miss Naden; Bickers; 25. 6d.), among
                        which the following are noteworthy:—
                    
                        GENERAL SIR HENRY F. PONSONBY, G.C.B., writes from Osborne:
                            “I have had much pleasure in laying before the Queen the copy of your
                            work, ‘Constance Naden: A Memoir, of which I had already heard an
                            interesting account. Her Majesty was graciously pleased to accept the
                            volume, and commands me to thank you for your kindness in having
                            presented her with this book.”
                        LORD REAY writes: “I have had the privilege of receiving your
                            Memoir of Miss Naden. I am very much obliged. Though only having had the
                            pleasure of seeing her for a few hours, I mourn the premature death of
                            this singularly gifted lady as warmly as any of her friends.”
                        THE RIGHT HON. W. E. GLADSTONE, M.P., writes: “I thank you
                            very much for the Memoir of Miss Naden. Everything relating to her is to
                            me matter of deep and touching interest.”
                        MR SYDNEY LEE, the present, and MR. LESLIE STEPHEN,
                            the late, editor of the “National Dictionary of Biography,” report that
                            the latter eminent writer and thinker is preparing the monograph of Miss
                            Naden for that monumental work.
                        THE RIGHT HON J. CHAMBERLAIN, M.P., writes: “I am much
                            obliged to you for the copy of the Life of Miss Naden, which I shall
                            read with interest.”
                        SIR PHILIP MAGNUS writes: “I am indeed much obliged to you
                            for sending me the Memoir of Constance Naden......In common with
                            everyone else who knew her, I was deeply shocked when I heard the sad
                            news of her death, which so abruptly terminated an acquaintance which I
                            had hoped would ripen into friendship.”
                        
                        In acknowledging the receipt of a copy of the Memoir sent to him by
                            Mrs. Charles Daniell, MR. GLADSTONE writes as follows: “I read
                            through the whole Memoir with undiminished interest. There can be no
                            doubt that by the death of Miss Naden the world has lost a person of
                            gifts both extraordinary and highly diversified. As yet I believe in her
                            mainly for her poetry; but a mind highly scientific is shown by the
                            wonderfully clever verses on ‘Solomon Redivivus.’ I am glad to be under
                            the impression that we have not got the last of her remains. I shall
                            always regret my personal loss in not having known her
                            personally.”
                        Finally, as a contrast to Mr. Gladstone and others above quoted, it
                            may be noted that MESSRS. MACMILLAN, through their managing
                            partner or director, Mr. Craig, peremptorily declined, in an interview
                            with her literary executor, Dr. Lewins, to have anything to do with the
                            publications of Miss Naden, even on their own terms.
                    
                    
                        The REV. E. COBHAM BREWER,L.L.D., author of “Dictionary of
                            Phrase and Fable,”, etc., writes—
                                “MISS CONSTANCE C.W. NADEN AS AN ORIGINAL THINKER.
                                “One cannot hope often to have so attractive a theme as Miss
                                    Naden to write about—so fair, so young, so fresh, so talented,
                                    so full of brilliant promise; but, alas! it must be added, so
                                    frail and short?lived, cut off in the very bud of womanhood. The
                                    end is sad, but the beautiful little star has left a trail of
                                    light behind, and has been so happy as to have a Dr. Lewins for
                                    her præcordium et dulce
                                        detus. Miss Naden had the gift to see the hidden
                                    genius of her mentor, and Dr. Lewins to discern the flower shut
                                    up in la jeune fille dans le
                                        bouton de son age.
                                “It is not often that such a combination of talent as poetry and
                                    philosophy is met with in the same person; but Miss Naden was a
                                    poet born, and made herself wise in science and philosophy. Her
                                    penetration was quick and keen, and she seems to have been about
                                    the only one able to grasp the difficult subject of
                                    Hylo?Idealism. She saw at once that objects, till they became
                                    subjects, cannot enter into the
                                    sphere of our consciousness, and therefore are to us virtually
                                    as good as non?existent.
                                “Many have read about Hylo?Idealism, but have been surely puzzled
                                    to reconcile it with their foregone conceptions; but, then,
                                    every new phase of progress has this stumbling block as a rock
                                    of offence. Geology had a long uphill fight with prejudice, so
                                    had astronomy, so indeed had machinery; but Miss Naden, from the
                                    very first, grasped the whole subject, and tried, not without
                                    notable success, to popularise what, to her own mind, was
                                    completely self?evident.
                                “Others of her philosophical and scientific excursions show the
                                    same intuitive penetration, and probably, had her life been
                                    spared, her name would have been bracketed with that of Mrs.
                                    Somerville; as it is, H. Spencer says that Miss Naden and George
                                    Eliot, the two female Warwickshire poets and thinkers, are on a
                                    par, and he does not know where to find a third.
                                “Miss Naden’s poetry has the true ring of precious metal; but,
                                    like Kirk White, Keats, and Shelley, her age was only a little,
                                    little day. But I am not going to dwell here on this subject,
                                    for another paper, by Nellie C. Hayman, entitled ‘Miss Naden as
                                    a Poet,’ will be found in this collection.”
                            
                        
                            Nellie C. Hayman, née
                                Brewer, Vicarage, Edwinstowe, Newark, Notts, writes:—
                            
                                “MISS NADEN AS A POET.
                                “In a certain choice corner of a cosy room is a book shelf, where
                                    many favourite books are to be found. Among some well?worn and
                                    well?marked volumes, the eye is attracted by a little
                                    blue?covered book, evidently a special favourite; it falls open
                                    easily in the hand, and various marks on the margin show that it
                                    has been ‘read, marked, learnt, and inwardly digested.’ The very
                                    name conjures up visions of spring blossoms, and, as the pages
                                    open, a breath of spring seems to sweep across the quiet
                                    room.
                                “’Songs and Sonnets of Springtime,’ by Constance C. W. Naden, is
                                    written on the cover. The poems are gems: they range from grave
                                    to gay, now and then a deeper note is struck; the song falls
                                    into a plaintive, minor key, and the sweet singer touches on the
                                    mysteries of life and death. Here is a song of ‘Twilight,’ in
                                    which, in the palms of ‘the
                                    radiant colours in the West,’ is seen ‘the mystery of night,’
                                    and the thoughts lead on to the deeper mysteries of the human soul:—
                                        ’As height and depth alike transcend our vision,
                                        The human soul, whence clearest lustre
                                            beams,
                                        Has yet its Hades and its fields Elysian,
                                        Revealed alone in symbols and in dreams.’
                                    
                                “In the ‘Pilgrim’ (page 39) is a fine attempt to depict the
                                    genesis, by Dr. Lewins, of Hylo?Idealism, or AutoMorphism
                                    (Selfism). In ‘Six Years Old’ the heart of a child is laid bare.
                                    The precocious child, alone in the garden, weaving her dainty
                                    fancies about the fairies, ‘with thorns for their knives and
                                    their forks,’ and their ball?rooms of ‘white lily cups,’ and
                                    that wonderful country of light, far over the seas and the
                                    mountains, which she visits in her dreams. The Sonnets speak of
                                    Nature in all her aspects, from the first snowdrop, ‘Fair
                                    sunny?hearted child of many tears;’ the—
                                        ’Lanes and woods array
                                        With hawthorn that was wont to bloom in May
                                        White petalled, crimson?anthered;’
                                    on through the ‘barren splendours of July,’ the glow of
                                    autumn, when ‘the leaves flame gold and scarlet,’ the dim and
                                    silent skies of November to December, when the earth—
                                        ’Lies dreaming of her destined hour,
                                        All white and still; most like a soul at rest.’
                                    If you are in a gay mood, and want a hearty laugh, read ‘The
                                    Lady Doctor,’ that—
                                        ’Spinster gaunt and grey,
                                        Whose aspect stern might well dismay
                                        A bombardier stout?hearted!’
                                    although there is a touch of pathos, too, in the hint of her
                                    early life, when, in the bloom of girlhood, she wandered in the
                                    dewy meadows with her young lover. She rejects love, and chooses
                                    instead the charm of powder, pill, and lotion. Nay, her very glance
                                        ’Might cast a spell
                                        Transmuting sherry and Moselle
                                        To chill and acrid potions.’
                                    
                                There is a fine touch of sarcasm in the poem called ‘The  Two Artists ‘—one being the
                                    painter who despairs of ever matching on his pallette the pure
                                    damask rose of his mistress’s cheek; the other being the
                                    mistress herself, who knows too well the secret of the pretty
                                    bloom contained in a certain little bottle.
                                “The translations from the German are all very beautiful, the
                                    sentiment and spirit of the originals being wonderfully
                                    preserved. In these days of careless and slipshod translations
                                    it is a great treat to read some of the songs of the great
                                    German poets in perfect and flowing English.
                                “That Miss Naden herself was a German scholar is evident in her
                                    poem, ‘Das Ideal,’ and in the short dedication, ‘Meinem
                                    Verehhrten Freunde Herrn Dr. Lewins in Dank barkeit Gewidmet
                                    ‘—we know she was a true friend.
                                “We close the dainty book, feeling that, for a short time, we
                                    have been in touch with a noble woman, a woman whose influence
                                    would make one ‘purer, better, stronger’—one ‘who, being dead,
                                    yet speaketh.’
                                “The book is laid aside, the hands are folded idly in the lap,
                                    and, as the twilight gathers in that quiet corner, certain words
                                    of Miss Naden’s own linger and echo in the deepening gloom as
                                    one’s thoughts dwell on her peaceful grave.
                                
                                    ’Look in her face, and lose thy dread of dying;
                                    Weep not, that rest will come, that toil will
                                        cease;
                                    Is it not well, to lie as she is lying,
                                    In utter silence, and in perfect peace?’”
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            MISS GINGELL, compiler of the “Aphorisms” of Mr. Herbert
                                Spencer, writes: “The thought that has dominated my mind in reading
                                Miss Naden’s poems is that they are the expression of a mind
                                eminently scientific, both naturally and by education, illustrating
                                emphatically the truth that Mr. Herbert Spencer so strongly insists
                                on in his work on ‘Education,’ where, in combating the general idea
                                that science is not conducive to poetic thought, he says: ‘It is not
                                true that the cultivation of science is necessarily unfriendly to
                                the exercise of imagination and the love of the beautiful. On the
                                contrary, science opens up realms of poetry where, to the
                                unscientific, all is a blank.’”
                        
                        
                            LADY BURTON, née
                                ARUNDELL, widow and executrix of the late Sir Richard
                                Burton, K.C.B., writes: “I have a regretful and pleasing remembrance
                                of a tall, soft, fair girl, who, perhaps, would not have attracted
                                much attention from a society of
                                butterflies; but the more the Thinker looked at her, the more he
                                felt drawn to know something about her. She was born to great
                                things, but her brain was too big for her frail frame, and she died
                                in Mayfair from illness contracted in India (as one might say)
                                little more than a child, leaving the world a flower the less. She
                                had made her mark in poetry and in science; and, if that bud had
                                lived to open, one cannot foresee what track of light she was
                                capable of leaving behind. She was not only a poet, but a chemist, a
                                psychologist, and—may I say, alas!—a Freethinker. If she has left
                                behind many admirers, she has left one faithful friend, who will
                                always keep her memory green; and no one is fitter to sympathise
                                with and to understand this pious work than I.”
                        
                        
                            PROFESSOR F. MAX MÜLLER writes from 7, Norham Gardens,
                                Oxford: “I am glad to hear of the appreciation of Miss Naden’s
                                poetry. I liked the poems when they first came out; but I never
                                trust my judgment as to English poetry. I am no judge of English
                                poetry, so far as the jingle of rhyme and the glamour of words are
                                concerned. Tennyson once told me that the only excuse for rhyme was
                                that it helped the memory. That may have been so in ancient times;
                                but is it so now? My only test of poetry is: Does it stand
                                translation into prose? It struck me when I read Miss Naden’s poems
                                that several of them would stand that test, and I am glad to hear
                                that the world has found it out.”
                        
                        
                            C. LLOYD MORGAN, Dean of University College, Bristol,
                                writes: “Although I am not prepared to accept all her conclusions, I
                                yield to no one in my sincere admiration of Miss Constance Naden’s
                                genius. She was gifted with rare philosophical insight, and a
                                clearness of perception and presentation which illuminates all she
                                has written. Combining the woman’s delicate intuition with the more
                                masculine power of firm logic, she gave promise of taking a position
                                in speculative philosophy to which no woman and very few men have
                                attained. And then death came just when her rich nature was
                                beginning to mature its fruit.”
                        
                        
                            MISS JANE HUME CLAPPERTON, authoress of “Scientific
                                Meliorism,” etc., writes: “It is with mingled feelings that I pen a
                                tribute to the memory of Constance Naden. Gratified pride in that
                                she belonged to my own sex springs up when I contemplate her varied gifts and keenly
                                intellectual powers; but when the moral aspects of her personality
                                are remembered, every other sentiment gives way to poignant regret.
                                The earnest truth?seeking of her nature and her simple allegiance to
                                truth, when she had found it, are rare characteristics in either
                                sex; and there presses on me the conviction that with the too early
                                cessation of this valuable life there was lost to the cause of
                                progress a social force of admirable quality and widely effective
                                range.”
                        
                        
                            CHARLES LOCKHART ROBERTSON, M. D. (Cantab), F.R.C.P., Lord
                                Chancellor’s Visitor in Lunacy, writes: “I knew Miss Constance Naden
                                very well, and I need not say that I greatly valued the friendship
                                which she extended to my wife and to myself. I read with much
                                interest the first volume of poetry which she published in 1880,
                                ‘Songs and Sonnets of Springtime.’ I still think it full of girlish
                                grace. In the ‘Songs and Sonnets of Springtime’ I would name ‘The
                                Abbot’ as full of promise. Again, when her youth is remembered, and
                                that her studies were all made in England, her translations from the
                                German seem to me of great merit. Thus the Sonnet, ‘Bury the Dead
                                Thou Lovest,’ from the German of Karl Siebel, is most gracefully
                                rendered; and I think her translation of Schiller’s ‘Knight of
                                Toggenburg,’ ‘Life and the Ideal,’ etc., may be compared with those
                                of more distinguished translators. Her wonderful mastery of the
                                German language is shown in the Sonnet, ‘Das Ideal.’ Her skill in
                                design and taste in art are shown in the floral decoration on the
                                cover of the volumes in question.”
                        
                        
                            J. J. AUBERTIN, translator of Camoens’ “Lusiads,”
                                Commendador of the literary Order of Portugal, “Saõ Thiago,” and the
                                same of the “Rosa” in Brazil, writes to Dr. Lewins: “Miss Naden’s
                                too early death was a blow to our literature, both scientific and
                                poetical. Her pen had already achieved much for so young an author,
                                and gave abundant promise for a great deal more. As that ‘more’ has
                                become impossible, it only remains to give every form to what she
                                has left, and I hail your now intended publication on that
                                ground.”
                        
                        
                            SHADWORTH H. HODGSON, President of the Aristotelian Society,
                                writes to Dr. Lewins: “The enclosed transcription of the passage in
                                the Aristotelian Society’s Committee’s Report, adopted by a General Meeting, in
                                which Miss Naden’s lamented death is recorded, does justice, as it
                                seems to me, to the favourable impression made on the Society by her
                                great abilities:—
                            
                                “’Extract from the Report of the Committee of the
                                    Aristotelian Society for the Eleventh Session, 1889?1890,
                                    adopted at the General Meeting of the Society, June 16th,
                                    1890.
                            
                            “’CONSTANCE C. W. NADEN was the daughter of Mr. Thomas
                                Naden, of Birmingham, and was educated at the Mason College,
                                Birmingham, where she distinguished herself particularly in Logic and Philosophy. Miss Naden
                                was elected a member of our Society in 1888, and at once attracted
                                attention by her clear and striking contributions to Our
                                discussions. It was her intention to have read a paper during this
                                Session on “Rationalist and Empiricist Ethics,” but her fatal
                                illness prevented her from accomplishing it. The notes prepared by
                                Miss Naden for this paper are printed on page 77 of this journal, as
                                well as others which were found among her papers, on “The Place of
                                Mental Physiology in Philosophy.” Miss Naden’s lamented death in
                                December last, at the early age of thirty?one, has been the subject
                                of very general regret, and the public press has given a full
                                account of her life and work. The essay on “Induction and
                                Deduction,” written while Miss Naden was at Mason College, has
                                recently been published, together with other papers and a
                                biographical notice, by her friend, Dr. Lewins. By her death the
                                Society loses one of its most valuable members.’—From ‘The
                                Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society,’ vol. i., no. iii., part 2,
                                page 160 (Williams & Norgate, 1890). Communicated by
                                Shadworth H. Hodgson, President.”
                        
                        
                            H. WILDON CARR, the Hon. Secretary of the Aristotelian
                                Society, writes to Dr. Lewins: “I am glad to hear that a new edition
                                of Miss Naden’s poems is being published. I had the pleasure of
                                meeting her often at the Aristotelian Society during the short time
                                of her membership. She took very great interest in our discussions,
                                and was preparing a paper for us at the time of her last illness.
                                Her early death was felt very deeply by all of us.”
                        
                    
                    See her
                        “Memoir” by the Treasurer of the Birmingham Corporation, Mr. Hughes,
                        F.L.S.—R.L.
                
                
                
                    OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
                    On Selections from the Philosophical and Poetical Works of Constance C.W.
                        Naden. Compiled by Emily and Edith Hughes. With an Introduction by George M.
                        McCrie. (Bickers; 3s. 6d.)
                    
                        
                            “An elegant little book to look upon, and will doubtless prove
                                admirably attractive to admirers of Miss Naden’s philosophical
                                    writings.”—Saturday Review.
                        
                        
                            “The volume of ‘Selections from the Philosophical and Poetical Works
                                of Miss Constance C. W. Naden,’ compiled by the Misses Emily and
                                Edith Hughes, and published by Messrs. Bickers & Son, is one
                                of the daintiest that we have seen for some time. The selections
                                from her essay on ‘Induction and Deduction’ contain some remarkably
                                fine expressions, and many other parts of the book are of great
                                    interest.”—Nature.
                        
                        
                            “There are, probably, a large number of persons who are unacquainted
                                with anything of Constance Naden’s writings, and to such the volume
                                before us—a dainty little volume, gilt?edged, and tastefully
                                bound—will give some insight into her style of work and thought.
                                Miss Naden, who died in 1889, was a philosopher of somewhat advanced
                                views; we are told in the very brief introduction to these
                                ‘Selections’ that ‘the thought currents of our day are even now
                                setting in the direction she indicated,’ that Herbert Spencer
                                thought her endowed with the exceptional combination of ‘receptivity
                                and originality’ in an equally great degree, and that she was an
                                exponent of ‘Synthetic Monism.’ Anyone who wishes to verify these
                                assertions may do so by help of the extracts from her ‘Essays’ and
                                ‘Reliques’ here collected.”— St. James’s
                                    Gazette.
                        
                        
                            “Miss Naden wrote charming and humorous light verses......We should
                                like a complete edition of her poems.”— Pall Mall
                                    Gazette.
                        
                        
                            “Her cult has the merit of much originality, and we feel sure that a
                                perusal of the extracts contained in this small volume will induce a
                                reader to appreciate it, and wish to study it in its unabridged
                                    form.”—Public Opinion.
                        
                        
                        
                            “The Misses Emily and Edith Hughes supply ‘Selections from the
                                Philosophical and Poetical Works of Constance C. W. Naden,’ whose
                                premature loss is so deeply lamented. The trend of Miss Naden’s mind
                                was distinctly philosophical, and her ripest energies were directed
                                in this channel. These isolated gems shine with delightful lustre
                                apart from their settings. It is a book which will find many
                                devotees among the new thinkers of the day.”—British
                                    Medical Journal.
                        
                        
                            “This volume should succeed in introducing the work of a subtle
                                thinker to many people to whom, hitherto, the name of Constance
                                Naden has been unknown.”—Publishers’
                                Circular.
                        
                        
                            “The volume is illustrated by a portrait of Miss Naden, and is
                                dedicated to Dr. Lewins, her friend and mentor. The prose extracts
                                precede the poetic, but the latter are more likely to attract the
                                ordinary reader, as they abound in quiet humour. We are glad to find
                                that charming little jeu
                                    d’esprit, ‘Solomon Redivivus,’ has not been omitted.”—
                                    Literary World.
                        
                        
                            “These extracts show that Miss Naden had some gift for epigram, and
                                could present her philosophic views in a clear and striking
                                    manner.”—Guardian.
                        
                        
                            “To those who have not the good fortune to own acquaintance with Miss
                                Naden’s published writings, this selection may be cordially
                                recommended. The passages from her philosophical essays and tracts,
                                and the examples of her poetic genius, which are contained in this
                                beautiful product of the printer’s art, will, we feel confident,
                                lead many readers to a study of the works themselves.”—Liberty Review.
                        
                        
                            “Miss Naden was one of those great intelligences that, flashing
                                meteor?like across the firmament of the world of philosophic
                                thought, left, in her brief passage, few (yet distinct and valuable)
                                traces of the operations of her mind.”— Bookseller.
                        
                        
                            “Miss Naden was, no doubt, an exceedingly clever woman of decidedly
                                advanced views on most subjects.”— Notes and
                                    Queries.
                        
                        
                        
                            “This is a book which is interesting and full of suggestion......Her
                                verse, especially her lighter verse, is decidedly
                                attractive......Her ardent character and single?minded devotion to
                                science are more attractive still.”— Woman.
                        
                        
                            “These selections will be valued by those who have recognised her
                                rare genius, alike in her philosophical writings and her
                                poems......The name of Constance Naden is probably known to but a
                                comparative few, for the general reader takes little interest in
                                works such as she wrote. As, since her death, however, there have
                                been many controversies regarding her opinions, some
                                misunderstandings and misconceptions, this present selection should
                                help to make her writings more widely appreciated.”— Court Circular.
                        
                        
                            “This book gives a representative series of saws, paragraphs, and
                                poems from the writings of the gifted propagandist of Hylo?Idealism,
                                and will be welcome to many who are curious about the ideas and
                                teaching of this strange transcendentalist.”— Scotsman.
                        
                        
                            “Altogether the book is an interesting one and we may at least allow
                                that the author of ‘A Modern Apostle’ had, in her composition, some
                                of the true gold of poetry.”— Manchester
                                    Guardian.
                        
                        
                            “This is an exceedingly pretty little volume......These extracts from
                                Miss Naden’s poems bring out the simplicity, tenderness, and playful
                                humour of a noble nature.”— Birmingham Daily
                                    Post.
                        
                        
                            “Messrs. Bickers & Son have issued a tasteful volume in the
                                familiar covers bearing the Bell flower, containing selections from
                                the works of the late Miss Constance Naden. The Constance Naden
                                literature is steadily increasing......and therefore it is that
                                these selections, carefully, skilfully, and intelligibly compiled by
                                Miss Emily and Miss Edith Hughes, will be of real service and high
                                value alike to the casual reader and to the student. It is most
                                appropriate that this pleasing and necessary work should have been
                                undertaken by these hands......So deftly has the work been done that
                                we scarcely notice the absence of the links, and it is possible from
                                the fragments to obtain a true perception  of the leading points in the theory of
                                Induction and Deduction, and its association with Evolution. The
                                Misses Hughes are to be congratulated upon having extracted the real
                                ore, the essentials, from Miss Naden’s writings; and, without being
                                too sparing on the one hand, or too prodigal on the other, have
                                included what is best and what is most just to that lady’s memory.”—
                                    Birmingham Daily Gazette.
                        
                        
                            “Admirers of the gifted young lady who was prematurely cut off by
                                death some three years ago, before she had had time to give more
                                than an indication of her rare talents, will welcome this elegant
                                and tasteful little volume.” —Glasgow
                                Herald.
                        
                        
                            “The object of the compilers has been to attract readers to Miss
                                Naden’s writings themselves; and, from the very careful manner in
                                which the selections have been made, we should think that the
                                student will be so much interested in the extracts as to desire to
                                peruse the books from which they have been culled.”— Midland Counties Express.
                        
                        
                            “The personality of the late Miss Naden is familiar to most
                                Birmingham people who are interested in literary matters, and
                                probably few are unacquainted with the striking series of
                                philosophical essays by which she showed most conclusively that it
                                is possible for a woman to grapple successfully with some of the
                                deepest problems which present themselves to thoughtful minds. The
                                present little volume, choice and attractive in its external aspect,
                                is a loving attempt to bring together, in a moderate compass, some
                                of her most pregnant observations, together with a selection from
                                her poems. Miss Naden’s vigorous and determined search for truth,
                                her strong and clear exposition of her theory of ‘Hylo?Idealism,’
                                and her lighter and more playful side, as shown in many of her
                                poems, are all well displayed; and no reader can fail to be
                                attracted by so interesting a catena of thoughts from so powerful a mind. An
                                excellent portrait of Miss Naden is prefixed to the book.”—The Central Literary Magazine.
                        
                        
                            “Miss Naden’s works are well known to our readers, and  their merits are so universally
                                recognised that it is unnecessary to say one single word in praise
                                of them. It was a happy thought which induced the Misses Hughes to
                                prepare this charming book of selections. They are derived from all
                                Miss Naden’s published works, her two volumes of poems and her prose
                                works issued since her much deplored death. The extracts have been
                                selected with great skill and discrimination, and they will do much
                                to make a wider circle of readers acquainted with the philosophic
                                insight, power of giving lucid expression to abstruse thoughts, and
                                the literary excellences of the greatest local genius of modern
                                times. The book is well printed and handsomely bound.” — The Midland Naturalist.
                        
                        
                            “We notice with much interest a volume of ‘Selections from the Works
                                of Constance C. W. Naden,’ compiled by Emily and Edith Hughes, with
                                an introduction by George M. McCrie. It is always a pleasure to meet
                                with fresh indications of the far?reaching influence of Miss Naden’s
                                philosophical and literary works, and the present volume is likely
                                to be especially useful in interesting those who are not already
                                acquainted with her books. The selections have been made with much
                                care and thought, and are calculated to give a considerable insight
                                into her philosophical teaching. About two?thirds of the volume is
                                devoted to extracts from the philosophical writings, the remainder
                                to the poems. Among the latter we note the exquisite ‘Pantheist’s
                                Song of Immortality,’ probably the best known of her poetical works,
                                and also the charmingly humorous ‘Scientific Wooing,’ ‘Tile New
                                Orthodoxy,’ and ‘Solomon Redivivus,’ the first of which appeared in
                                the Mason College Magazine, when Miss Naden
                                was one of its leading spirits. The volume is well got up, and in
                                every way suitable for a gift?book. We wish it every success.”—
                                    The Mason College Magazine.
                        
                        
                            “The chief difficulty that meets the critic is that of selection amid
                                the wealth of intellectual matter to be found between the covers of
                                this beautiful little tome......The ladies are to be congratulated
                                on the excellent way in which their task has been accomplished; not
                                least in choosing for the outside decoration of the book—and a most
                                beautiful one it is—the favourite flower of the dead  authoress, whose work and memory they
                                have done so much to immortalise.*”—Rochester and Chatham.
                        
                        
                            “This chaste little volume is the result of much earnest research
                                through the writings of one of the most remarkable women of modern
                                times. Miss Naden, whose premature decease was recorded about four
                                years ago, was a native of Birmingham, and her wonderful intellect
                                enabled her to grasp the most difficult of scientific and
                                philosophic studies......We advise those of our readers who are
                                unacquainted with the writings of this talented lady to acquire the
                                anthology which the Misses Hughes have so diligently
                                    prepared.”—Herts Illustrated Review.
                        
                        [After these
                                authoritative eulogies the only censure I can find is contained in
                                an insignificant print, Sylvia’s Journal, * which is answered by me in the
                                article here reproduced, entitled “Constance Naden and Materialism,”
                                in which the criticaster’s ignorance and presumption are fairly
                                exposed.—R. L.]“One would like to speak only in the kindest
                            way of this selection from the work of an interesting young writer, who
                            died a year or two ago; but, notwithstanding Mr. Gladstone’s praise of
                            her, the fact cannot be disguised that a very great deal has been made
                            out of a very little. The work, which is published by Messrs. Bickers
                            & Son, of Leicester Square, is beautifully produced; and, if the
                            editing had been on a par with the publishing, Miss Naden’s memory would
                            have been better served. The two ladies, Miss Emily and Miss Edith
                            Hughes, whose names appear on the title?page as the compilers, have
                            evidently done their labour of love with care; but they appear sadly
                            lacking in literary judgment in regard to the selection. Many extracts
                            are given which are utterly unworthy of being served up as single gems;
                            for, so far from being tersely, epigrammatically, or happily expressed,
                            they strike one as inexpressibly commonplace and obvious. Notes by Dr.
                                Lewins.—The selection is by Miss Naden herself, and is to be found
                                in her two earlier poetical volumes (“Songs and Sonnets of
                                Springtime” and “The Modern Apostle,” etc.).
                            I do not
                                mention one or two scurrilous articles in theNational
                                    Observer, a journal conducted on Jingo and “Patriotic”
                                (see Dr. Johnson’s definition of the term) lines, as the scurrility
                                is directed, not against Miss Naden, whom it designates Titania, as
                                against her Executor, vilified as “Bottom.” Opening the book at random, the first gem I
                            light on is: ‘Before reprobating (sic)
                            any statement as false, we should take care to inquire into the facts,
                            that truth may ever remain inviolate,’ which is only another way of
                            saying that two and two make four. On the next page I open I find the
                            following startling statement standing by itself: ‘The name of Plato is
                            the greatest in Greek philosophy,’ which is scarcely less likely to be
                            denied than the incompetency of Miss Naden’s editors. But for
                            pretentious and utter gratuitousness commend me to the introduction,
                            which is, we are informed, by Mr. George M. McCrie, who is apparently
                            more anxious to ‘introduce’ Mr. George M. McCrie than Miss Naden. The
                            book is a lamentable example of the old adage, ‘Preserve us from our
                            friends.”’
                        
                            CONSTANCE NADEN AND MATERIALISM. To the Editor of “Sylvia’s
                                Journal.”
                            SIR,—Perhaps I may be allowed, as literary executor of the
                                late Miss Naden, to make a brief comment on your somewhat
                                depreciating notice of her poetry and philosophy, which have
                                extorted the approval of thinkers like Herbert Spencer, Dr. Samuel
                                Smiles, Dr. R. W. Dale, Lord Reay Mr. Gladstone, and other
                                notabilities.
                            The difficulty in the way of a satisfactory appreciation of her
                                thesis is well cleared up by her own essay, “What is Religion?” and
                                by my pamphlet, “Humanism v. Theism,” and also by Mr.
                                G. M. McCrie’s leaflet, “Sadducee v. Pharisee” (Bickers
                                and Son). Its gist may be summarised in a very few words by
                                characterizing it as the subjectivation of the
                                    objective, exactly Kant’s negation of “Thing in Itself,”
                                the high?water mark of that cosmopolitan metaphysician, a standpoint
                                from which he receded in all his profound works after the first edition of the “Critique of Pure Reason.”
                                It is nothing new, but only the present high?water mark and position
                                of contemporary exact science and ethics. It is clear that, on these
                                    selfist data, each individual sentient
                                being creates and determines its own cosmos
                                and entire existence 
                                    .
                                     
                                
                            Sixty years ago Wöhler succeeded in transforming inorganic compounds into the organic Urea. Now, this proves, beyond the
                                possibility of rational dispute and doubt, that no hard?and?fast
                                partition separates these seemingly distinct natural kingdoms—the
                                organic and inorganic—from each other. Life, therefore (biogenesis), is no novel innovation,
                                but simply a more complex arrangement and modification of not?life, all forms of which are fundamentally
                                abiogenic. The conventional notion, immemorially held as a
                                sacrosanct tenet, that a special Divine element enters into human
                                vital phenomena, is thus seen to be an illusion having no ground in
                                reality. This scientific substantiation is, in
                                our time, the great desideratum, not merely
                                the great Perhaps.
                            —I am, Sir, yours, etc., R. Lewins, M.D., Surgeon Lieut.?Colonel
                                (R.). Army and Navy Club, Pall Mall.
                        
                    
                
                
                    OPINIONS OF THE PRESS
                    On Constance Naden: A Memoir. By William R. Hughes, F.L.S.,
                        with an introduction by Professor Lapworth, LL.D., F.R.S., and additions by
                        Professor Tilden, D.Sc., F.R.S., and Robert Lewins, M.D., Surgeon
                        Lieutenant?Colonel (R.). (Bickers; 2s.6d.)
                    
                        “To Mr. Hughes, who is responsible for the greater portion of its
                            contents, much gratitude is due from all friends and admirers of Miss
                            Naden for the great and loving care which he has devoted to the task of
                            writing a faithful and sympathetic sketch of her short but brilliant
                                career.”—The Literary World.
                        “This volume, which depicts in sympathetic style the life of the
                            gifted lady whose name forms the title, is a work of love that Mr.
                            Hughes has given to the world of her admirers, which were very numerous,
                            especially in the Midland capital. Her philosophic turn of mind, her
                            thirst for scientific knowledge, and her keen appreciation of art marked
                            her out as a prominent character in the history, not only of Birmingham,
                            but of science and art. Mr. Hughes has prepared a Memoir which shows
                            great care and does him great credit.”—The
                            Metropolitan.
                        
                        
                            “It is a marvellous record for a woman who died when she was barely
                                    thirty.”—Woman.
                        
                        
                            “The strength of the impressions made by the late Constance Naden on
                                her friends is now further declared by the little volume of Memoirs
                                put together by three or four of them......They serve perhaps better
                                than any one sketch could do to tell how remarkable were Miss
                                Naden’s abilities, how deep was the sense of loss that fell at her
                                death on all who knew her, and how lovable and estimable was the
                                moral nature with which her rare mental powers were bound
                                    up.—The National Reformer.
                        
                        
                            “Her intellectual development is a great testimony to the value of
                                modern scientific education, and her Memoir should be studied by all
                                who are interested in the training of what is often unfairly
                                stigmatised as ‘precocious’ intelligence.”—Manchester
                                    Examiner.
                        
                        
                            “Miss Naden, who died on Christmas Eve, 1889, at the early age of
                                thirty?one, was a devoted disciple of Mr. Herbert Spencer*, and, during her short but
                                brilliant career has written many essays on scientific subjects,
                                which indicated such a remarkably keen intellect as to call forth
                                admiration and comment from her most distinguished contemporaries.
                                Mr. Hughes’s pleasantly?written Memoir is appropriately supplemented
                                by contributions from other personal friends—viz., Professor
                                Lapworth, LL.D., F.R.S, Professor Tilden, D.Sc., F.R.S., and Dr.
                                Robert Lewins of the Army Medical Department.”—Herts
                                    Advertiser and St. Alban’s Times.
                        
                        
                            “Miss Naden was a lady of undoubted genius, not only as a poetess,
                                but in the more abstruse paths of philosophy; and her early death,
                                at the age of thirty?one years, is a national loss Mr. Hughes is a
                                loving as well as talented chronicler of Miss Naden’s life, and his
                                scholarly attainments are well seen in the Memoir.”—Chatham
                                    and Rochester Times.
                        
                        
                            Note by Surgeon
                                Lieut.?Colonel Dr. Lewins.—Miss Naden’s admiration for Mr. Spencer
                                was undoubtedly very great. But her own originality was such that
                                she cannot properly be termed his “disciple.” The Royal Society’s
                                motto, “Nullius in Verba,” etc.
                                was, with her, quite instinctive.
                        
                        
                        
                            “The book is altogether one that will assist to a perfect conception
                                of the marvellous character which developed so mightily, and shines
                                out with so intense a radiance—a radiance which our eyes, unused to
                                such, must be prepared for to understand aright.”—The
                                    Birmingham Daily Gazette.
                        
                        
                            “The Appendix to Mr. Hughes’s Memoir of the late Miss Constance
                                Naden—that remarkable poet and student of science whom Mr.
                                Gladstone’s well?remembered reference helped to make
                                famous—comprises a letter from Mr. Herbert Spencer, who pays a high
                                tribute to the powers of his young disciple:* ‘I can think of no woman [he
                                says], save George Eliot, in whom there has been this union of high
                                philosophical capacity with extensive acquisition. Unquestionably,
                                her subtle intelligence would have done much in furtherance of
                                rational thought, and her death has entailed a serious loss.’”
                                    —The Daily News.
                        
                        
                            “Gifted beyond the ordinary lot of woman An enthusiast for art, and a
                                writer of poetry of no mean order, the real bent of her mind was
                                towards the study of philosophy.”—The Publishers’
                                    Circular.
                        
                        
                            “Excellently done, in a simple and telling style.”—The Mason
                                    College Magazine.
                        
                        
                            “She died too soon. She achieved much; she promised more; had she
                                lived twenty years longer, I believe she would have taken a great
                                and enduring place in English literature.”—Dr. Dale, in The
                                    Contemporary Review.
                        
                        
                            “It is, indeed, a valuable tribute, not only to the remarkable
                                intellectual powers of the subject of the Memoir, but to the value
                                of the educational means we possess, and by which those powers were
                                fostered. Mr. Hughes’s little book is well written, well edited, and
                                well printed.”—The Midland Institute Magazine.
                        
                        
                            “We have only praise to give Mr. Hughes for the admirable manner in
                                which he has dealt with the very miscellaneous materials placed at
                                his disposal, and for the generous appreciation which has enabled
                                him to do justice to all sides See footnote on previous
                                    page.of an exceptionally
                                rich and complex character.”—The Central Literary
                                    Magazine.
                        
                        
                            “......The book is printed in clear type, paragraphed, and easy to
                                read. It is full of the most instructive and interesting matter
                                which it is possible to put into print—namely, the ardent, unceasing
                                struggles of a human soul during its whole life upon earth to know
                                something of its environment, to understand the why and the
                                wherefore of all things. The story fascinates as it is read, and it
                                is not difficult to perceive that a kind pen, a wise pen, the pen of
                                one who knew Miss Naden well, has written these pages......”
                                    —Shafts.
                        
                        
                            “This little work (‘Induction and Deduction’) acquires a melancholy
                                interest from the fact that the talented young authoress has not
                                lived to see its publication. The title essay, on ‘Induction and
                                Deduction,’ gained in 1887 the Heslop Memorial Medal, provided out
                                of the proceeds of a bequest to the Mason Science College of
                                Birmingham by the late Dr. Heslop, and awarded annually by the
                                Council of the College. * It is
                                clear, concise, well arranged, and carefully thought out; and leads
                                one to believe that, had the hand of Death been withheld, Miss Naden
                                would have made valuable contributions to philosophic thought. For
                                Miss Naden the fundamental principle in philosophy is the famous
                                Protagorean formula of relativity, that ‘man is, to man, the measure
                                of all things, of things that are that they are, and of things that
                                are not that they are not.’* She
                                insists on the close inter?connection of induction and deduction in
                                all reasoning, the two processes not being antagonistic, but
                                complementary. Both involve cognition and recognition; but, whereas
                                induction is a process of cognition involving recognitions,
                                deduction is a process of recognition involving cognitions. The
                                historical development is traced from the Greek cosmologists,
                                through Plato, Aristotle, Bacon, Descartes, and Locke, Mill, Jevons,
                                and T. H. Green; and It may be mentioned that a marble companion bust
                                    to that of Dr. Heslop, of Miss Naden, has been placed in the
                                    Library of Mason Science College.This formula
                                    of the more sober Berkeley of antiquity is quite misrepresented
                                    by Plato when he objects that, if so, it must be the same in the
                                    case of the poor Baboon. No doubt it is so to that “poor
                                    relation.”—R.L. there
                                are many signs that Miss Naden had not merely grasped, but
                                assimilated, the teachings of those whose influence on the theory of
                                reasoning she traced......”—Professor Lloyd Morgan, Dean of
                                    Bristol University College, in Nature.
                        
                        
                            “Miss Naden’s departure from this world has left a blank which it
                                will be hard to fill up. England and India both have reason to mourn
                                her loss, as she has identified herself with all great movements in
                                England, and was also thinking of doing something in this country in
                                remembrance of her visit to the Indian peninsula. The prominent part
                                she took, in conjunction with Dr. Garrett Anderson, regarding
                                medical aid to Indian women, endears her name to this country, and
                                entitles her to our gratitude and respect. To her personal
                                attributes, which were so brilliant and varied, it is difficult to
                                do justice. As a real thinker, genuine debater, and eloquent
                                speaker, she remains almost unrivalled among her own sex, and I
                                cannot describe with what attention and admiration her friends met
                                at 114, Park Street, on Saturdays, which was her home day, to listen
                                to her brilliant conversation.”—U. S. Misra, Barrister?at?Law
                                    (Extract from the Indian “Pioneer”).
                        
                    
                    R. Lewins, M.D. Surgeon Lieut.?Colonel (R.).
                    
                        Army and Navy Club, S.W.
                    
                
                
                
                    
                        WORKS BY THE LATE CONSTANCE NADEN.
                        
                            SELECTIONS FROM THE PHILOSOPHICAL & POETICAL WORKS
                                    OF CONSTANCE C. W. NADEN.Compiled and Arranged by the
                                Misses Emily and Edith Hughes, and illustrated with a portrait of
                                Miss Naden. With an Introduction by George M. McCrie, Author of
                                “Further Reliques of Constance Naden.” Cloth, 3s. 6d.
                        
                        
                            INDUCTION AND DEDUCTION. A Historical and Critical Sketch
                                    of Successive Philosophical Conceptions Respecting the Relations
                                    between Inductive and Deductive Thought; and Other Essays.
                                Edited by R. Lewins, M.D., Army Medical Department. With
                                Memoir and Portrait of the Author. 1 vol., 8vo, cloth extra, 7s.
                                6d.
                        
                        
                            FURTHER RELIQUES OF CONSTANCE NADEN. Edited by G.
                                M. McCrie. 1 vol., crown 8vo, cloth, with Portrait and Autograph
                                Letters, 7s. 6d.
                        
                        
                            A MODERN APOSTLE; The Elixir of Life; The Story of Clarice;
                                    and Other Poems. Crown 8vo, cloth, 5s.
                        
                        
                            SONGS AND SONNETS OF SPRINGTIME. Small crown 8vo,
                                cloth, 5s.
                        
                        
                            WHAT IS RELIGION? A Plea for Individualism. Paper
                                wrapper, 8vo, 1s., by post 1s. 1d.
                        
                    
                    
                        Bickers & Son, Leicester Square, W.C.
                    
                    
                    
                        WORKS ON CONSTANCE NADEN & HYLO?IDEALISM.
                        
                            CONSTANCE NADEN: A Memoir.By William R.
                                    Hughes, F.L..S., Treasurer of the City of
                                Birmingham.With an Introduction by Professor Lapworth,
                                LL.D., F.R.S., President of the Geological Section of the “British
                                Association” at Edinburgh for 1892, and Additions by Professor
                                Tilden, D.Sc., F.R.S., and Robert Lewins, M.D., Surgeon
                                Lieut.?Colonel (R). With Portrait. 112 pp., cloth, 2s, 6d.
                        
                        
                            CONSTANCE NADEN AND HYLO?IDEALISM: A Critical Study.
                                    By E. Cobham Brewer, LL.D., author of
                                    “Dictionary of Phrase and Fable,” “The Reader’s Handbook,” “The
                                    Historical Note?book,” etc.Annotated by R. Lewins, M.D.
                                Paper wrapper, 8vo, 1s., by post 1s. 1d.
                        
                        
                            SADDUCEE versus PHARISEE:
                                    A Vindication of Neo?Materialism. In Two Essays. 1. Constance
                                    Naden: A Study in Auto?Monism. Il. Pseudo?Scientific Terrorism.
                                    By G. M. McCrie.With an Appendix
                                reprinted from the Journal of Mental Science. Crown 8vo, price 6d.,
                                by post 7d.
                        
                        
                            HUMANISM versus THEISM; Or,
                                    SOLIPSISM (EGOISM)=ATHEISM. In a Series of Letters to Constance
                                    Naden by Robert Lewins, M.D. Crown 8vo,
                                wrapper, price 6d., by post 7d.
                        
                    
                    
                        Bickers & Son, Leicester Square, W.C.
                    
                
            
        
    
