
     ----CITATION----
        Blind, Mathilde (1841-1896). The Heather on Fire. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 143 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (December 12, 1995).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7076
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    The Heather on Fire: A Tale of Highland
                        Clearances.
                
                By Mathilde Blind.
                
                    London: 
                    Walter Scott,
                        24 Warwick Lane,Paternoster
Row.
                
                1886
            
            
            
                Dedicated to Captain Cameron,
                Whose glory it is to have thrown up his place rather than proceed in command of
                    the steamer “Lochiel,” which was to convey the police expedition
                    against the Skye crofters in the winter of 1884.
            
            
            
                
                    “The foxes have holes, and the birds of the air have nests, but the Son of
                        Man hath not where to lay His head.”
                
                
            
            
                I SEEM to hear many a reader ask whether such atrocities as are
                    described in “The Heather on Fire” have indeed been committed with the memory of
                    this generation. Let him be assured that this is no fancy picture; that, on the
                    contrary, the author’s aim has been to soften some of the worst features of the
                    heart?rending scenes which were of such frequent occurrence during the Highland
                    Clearances. Many of them are too revolting for the purposes of art; for the
                    ferocity shown by some of the factors and ground?officers employed by the
                    landlords in evicting their inoffensive tenantry, can only be matched by the
                    brutal excesses of victorious troops on a foreign soil. But even in those cases
                    where no actual violence was resorted to, the uprooting and transplantation of
                    whole communities of Crofters from the straths
                    and glens which they had tilled for so many generations must be regarded in the
                    light of a national crime.
                No traveller can have failed to be struck by the solitude and desolation which
                    now constitute the prevalent character of the Scottish Highlands. “Mile after
                    mile,” says Macaulay, speaking of Glencoe, “the traveller looks in vain for the
                    smoke of one hut, or for one human form wrapped in a plaid, and listens in vain
                    for the bark of a shepherd’s dog, or the bleat of a lamb. Mile after mile, the
                    only sound that indicates life is the faint cry of a bird of prey from some
                    storm?beaten pinnacle of rock.” His words might appropriately stand for a
                    description of a great part of the north of Scotland. But it was not always so.
                    The moors and valleys, whose blank silence is only broken by the rush of
                    tumbling streams or the cry of some solitary bird, were once enlivened by the
                    manifold sounds of some human industry and made musical with children’s voices.
                    The crumbling walls and decaying roof?trees of ruined villages still bear
                    witness to the former populousness of many a deserted glen. Perhaps these humble
                    remains touch our feelings more deeply than the
                    imposing fragments of Greek temples and Roman amphitheatres. For it was but
                    yesterday that they were inhabited by a brave, moral, and industrious peasantry,
                    full of poetic instincts and ardent patriotism, ruthlessly expelled their native
                    land to make way for sporting grounds rented by merchant princes and American
                    millionaires.
                During a visit I paid to the Isle of Arran in the summer of 1884, I stood on the
                    site of such a ruined village. All that remained of the once flourishing
                    community was a solitary old Scotchwoman, who well remembered her banished
                    countrymen. Her simple story had a thrilling pathos, told as it was on the
                    melancholy slopes of the North Glen Sannox, looking across to the wild broken
                    mountain ridges called “The Old Wife’s Steps.” Here, she said, and as far as one
                    could see, had dwelt the Glen Sannox people, the largest population then
                    collected in any one spot of the island, and evicted by the Duke of Hamilton in
                    the year 1832. The lives of these crofters became an idyll in her mouth. She
                    dwelt proudly on their patient labour, their simple joys, and the kind, helpful
                    ways of them; and her brown eyes filled with tears as  she recalled the day of their expulsion, when the
                    people gathered from all parts of the island to see the last of the Glen Sannox
                    folk ere they went on board the brig that was bound for New Brunswick, in
                    Canada. “Ah, it was a sore day that,” she sighed, “when the old people cast
                    themselves down on the seashore and wept.”
                They were gone, these Crofters, and their dwellings laid low with the hill?side,
                    and their fertile plots of corn overrun with ling and heather; but the stream
                    went rushing on as of old, and as of old the cloven mountain peaks cast their
                    shadow on the valley below whence the once happy people were all gone—gone, too,
                    their dwelling?places, and, to use the touching words of a Highland minister,
                    “There was not a smoke there now.” For the progress of civilisation, which has
                    redeemed many a wilderness, and gladdened the solitary places of the world, has
                    come with a curse to these Highland glens, and turned green pastures and golden
                    harvest?fields once more into a desert.
            
        
        
            
            
                The Heather on Fire: 
                A Tale of the Highland Clearances.
                
                    Duan First.
                    
                        I.
                        HIGH on a granite boulder, huge in girth,
                        Primæval waif that owned a different birth
                        From all the rocks on that wild coast, alone,
                        Like some grey heron on as grey a stone,
                        And full as motionless, there stood a maid,
                        Whose sun?browned hand her seaward eyes did shade
                        Flinching, as now the sun’s auroral motion
                        Twinkled in milky ways on the grey heaving ocean.
                    
                    
                    
                        II.
                        Ah! she had watched and waited overlong;—
                        But now as the new sunshine poured along
                        Heaven’s hollow dome, till all its convex blue
                        Brimmed over as a harebell full of dew—
                        Yea, now she snatched the kerchief from her hair,
                        And waved its chequered tartan in the air;
                        For all at once she heard o’er ocean’s calm
                        The home?bound fishermen chanted King David’s psalm.
                    
                    
                        III.
                        In stormful straits, where battering craggy heights
                        Thundered the surf through equinoctial nights,
                        Off dolorous northern strands where loomed Cape Wrath
                        Red?lurid o’er the sea’s unnatural math
                        Of goodly ships and men, or yet where lone
                        The Orkneys echoed to the tidal moan,
                        These men had plied their perilous task and rude,
                        Wrestling with wind and wave for scantiest livelihood.
                    
                    
                    
                        IV.
                        Now laden they returned with finny spoil
                        The deep had tendered to their arduous toil;
                        Their fishing smacks, with every black sail fanned
                        By favouring breezes, bore towards the land;
                        And in their wake, or wheeling far away,
                        Or headlong dropping on the hissing spray,
                        Shrieked flocks of shore?birds, as now hove in sight
                        Fantastic cliffs and peaks a?bloom with morning light.
                    
                    
                        V.
                        Ah! dear as is her first?born’s earliest lisp
                        To a young mother, toying with the crisp
                        Close rings that shine in many a clustering curl
                        Above the fair brow of her baby girl;
                        Or welcome, as when parted lovers meet
                        Their blissful looks and kisses,—even so sweet
                        Unto the eyes of those sea?weary men
                        Gleamed old familiar sights of their own native glen:
                    
                    
                    
                        VI.
                        The shallow stream wide?straggling on the beach,
                        That from cleft mountain ridges out of reach
                        Of aught save eagles, clattered from on high
                        To water the green strath and then to die
                        Merged in the deep; the monstrous rocks that lay
                        Sharp?fanged like crocodiles agape for prey;
                        The mushroom hovels pitch?forked on the strand,
                        Where browsed the small lean cattle mid the wet sea?sand.
                    
                    
                        VII.
                        And from her perch the Highland lass had leaped,
                        Bounding from stone to stone, while still she kept
                        Her footing on the slippery tangled mass,
                        Through which her bare, brown, shapely feet did pass.
                        Nor was she now alone on that bleak shore,
                        For from each hut and corrie ’gan to pour
                        Women, old men, and children, come to greet
                        The fishers steering home their little herring?fleet.
                    
                    
                    
                        VIII.
                        For now each boat was almost within reach,
                        Their keels were grating harshly on the beach;
                        A rough lad here flung out his rope in coils,
                        There nets were cast ashore in whose brown toils
                        Live herrings quivered with a glint like steel,
                        Which, deftly shovelled into many a creel,
                        Were carried to the troughs. And full of joy
                        The sailor hailed his wife, the mother kissed her boy.
                    
                    
                        IX.
                        But oh, rejoicing most of any there,
                        Rejoicing met one fond and faithful pair,
                        Whose true and tender hearts, tried in love’s fire,
                        Life could not change, howe’er it might conspire
                        With the revolving, disenchanting years
                        To turn love’s rainbow promises to tears,
                        And ruthlessly to tear asunder still
                        What seemed for ever joined by fate and mutual will.
                    
                    
                    
                        X.
                        Had not nine Aprils with fleet sun and showers,
                        On wan hill?sides kindled a flame of flowers?
                        Had not nine harvest moons in sheltered nooks,
                        Seen the shorn fields piled with the barley stooks,
                        Since these two lovers in their buoyant youth
                        Exchanged the vows they kept with stainless truth?
                        Both toiling late and soon, year in, year out,
                        One longed?for day to bring their marriage morn about.
                    
                    
                        XI.
                        But toil is long, and oh, man’s youth so fleet!
                        Fleeter love’s hours when hands and lips may meet!
                        Weary the moons when they are wrenched apart,
                        For hope delayed still maketh sick the heart.
                        And often when the lashing rain would smite
                        The lowly hut throughout the moaning night,
                        Beside her bed the girl fell on her knees,
                        Praying her God for those in peril of the seas.
                    
                    
                    
                        XII.
                        But now their nets had drawn great hauls aloft,
                        And Michael, who had left his inland croft
                        For female hands to till while he should reap
                        The fickle harvest of the unsown deep,
                        Returned not empty?handed to the side
                        Of her he looked to wed ere Christmastide;
                        As thirstily he met those sea?deep eyes,
                        Where her long love lay hid, a pearl beyond all price.
                    
                    
                        XIII.
                        A grave, grand Crofter pitted in his pride
                        Against the niggard soil or veering tide;
                        Whose natural ruddy fairness wind and sun
                        Conspired to dye together of a dun
                        Unchanging umber—much as though he were
                        Tarred like his sails for equal wear and tear—
                        Wherein his eyes’ unsullied blue seemed isled,
                        Clear as two crystal springs by foul things ne’er defiled.
                    
                    
                    
                        XIV.
                        Grave, too, the girl that was to be his bride,
                        Whose dark head, as she stepped out by his side,
                        Brushed his red?bearded chin: supple and frail,
                        She looked a birch tree swaying with the gale;
                        And her pale cheeks and shadowy eyes and hair
                        Seemed veiled by some pathetic brooding care,
                        But that her ripe lips, with their cranberry red,
                        A glow of youthful bloom on all her features shed.
                    
                    
                        XV.
                        With many a “God?speed” from the fishermen,
                        The lovers left the sea?board for the glen,
                        Following the devious windings of the burn,
                        Whose eddying waters flung themselves in turn
                        O’er heaps of tumbled blocks, or, stilled and deep,
                        In glassy shallows seems to fall asleep,
                        Where, grimly twisted by Atlantic storms,
                        Grey birks leant over it their pale, distorted forms.
                    
                    
                    
                        XVI.
                        A lone, green place, with no live thing around,
                        No barks, or bleats, or lowings, save the sound
                        Of running waters, that, with many a fall
                        And fluid splash, meandered musical;
                        Running through months, years, ages, on and on,
                        Monotonously beneath moon or sun,
                        With fugitive, ever?recurring chime
                        Echoing the swift pulsation of the heart of time.
                    
                    
                        XVII.
                        A green, lone place for lovers such as these,
                        Where sitting underneath the birchen trees—
                        On knolls of tufted moss, whose amber sheen
                        Seemed rings of sunshine breaking through the green—
                        Hand locked in hand, enlaced and tranced with bliss,
                        Love’s smouldering fire flamed out in one long kiss
                        Full of the smothered yearning at each heart,
                        While duty and stern fate kept their two lives apart.
                    
                    
                    
                        XVIII.
                        There having lingered for a golden space,
                        Lulled by the burn, face leaning close to face,
                        How loth soe’er at last they turned away
                        To follow the steep upland track that lay
                        Beside the tumbling stream. For o’er the glade
                        The hills began to cast a lengthening shade,
                        And from lone hollows filmy veils of mist
                        Fell round their furrowed brows in vaporous amethyst.
                    
                    
                        XIX.
                        And from the height of that green slope awhile
                        Michael and Mary, leaning ’gainst the stile,
                        Looked down the long withdrawing upper glen,
                        The home of patient and laborious men;
                        Where it lay spread beneath their loving gaze
                        Transfigured, glowing to an amber blaze
                        Poured forth from out the incandescent west,
                        Where the sun hovered above the purple mountain’s crest.
                    
                    
                    
                        XX.
                        And so the twain cross to the fields of corn
                        With half their yellow barley yet unshorn,
                        Where still with rhythmic stroke the reaper walks,
                        His sickle crackling through the bearded stalks,
                        While the grain falls in heavy swathes, and then
                        Bound by brown maids is flung unto the men,
                        Who shouldering sheaf on sheaf all neatly bound
                        Stook them in even shocks along the bristling ground.
                    
                    
                        XXI.
                        And then they pass through meadows soft as sleep 
                        And white with sprinklings of the black?nosed sheep,
                        Where the tall stacks their lengthening shadows fling,
                        Along the golden green of sun?setting;
                        While through the air, in pendulous ebb and rise,
                        A smoke?like pillar moves athrob with flies,
                        Myriads of murmuring specks that pulse and quiver
                        Athwart the moted beam that spans that rushing river.
                    
                    
                    
                        XXII.
                        There, clustering near the stream in crooked line,
                        The crofters’ steadings, warmly thatched, incline
                        Brown sloping roofs o’er which rope nets are thrown,
                        And kept in place by many a ponderous stone
                        Against the winter winds; and all around
                        With kale, potatoes, garden?stuff, the ground
                        Looked like a patch?work counterpane with edges
                        Of currant bushes and frayed blackberry hedges.
                    
                    
                        XXIII.
                        And other farms appeared of their own will
                        To have got rooted half?way up the hill,
                        Where mid the wine?red ling they seemed to be
                        Green islands ringed round by a purple sea;
                        And far and wide along the pleasant strath
                        The air smelt fragrant of the aftermath,
                        While nimbly darting o’er the new?mown meadows,
                        Shrill twittering swallows flashed above their flashing shadows.
                    
                    
                    
                        XXIV.
                        “My glen, my bonnie glen!” the Crofter said,
                        And reverently bared his tawny head,
                        As he beheld aglow in sunset’s ray
                        The roof where first he saw the light of day—
                        The strip of garden, to his infant eyes
                        Delightful as a nook of Paradise,
                        Where bees and pigeons murmuring, once to him
                        Seemed echoes from afar of quiring cherubim.
                    
                    
                        XXV.
                        Even, as of yore, there wound the crooked street;
                        There sprawled small children with bare legs and feet;
                        There on a step stroking her whiskers sat,
                        Sublimely tolerant, a green?eyed cat;
                        And there too—in the middle of the road,
                        Where the tall waggon swayed its creaking load
                        Of high?piled oats—the cackling hens, a flutter,
                        Scratching pecked up the grain with fussy haste and clutter.
                    
                    
                    
                        XXVI.
                        And even as the stately couple stepped
                        Up the fair clachan, two large collies leaped
                        Into the street with short sharp barks of joy,
                        And in their haste knocked a small touzled boy
                        Into the gutter, where he lay and kicked,
                        While the dogs dashed at Michael, madly licked
                        His labour?hardened hands, and tried in vain
                        To reach his kindly face, then barked and jumped again.
                    
                    
                        XXVII.
                        And at the loud glad noise an ancient dame
                        Stepped to the door, and stood with stooping frame,
                        And left hand warding off the dazzling rays.
                        Like yellow parchment showed her crumpled face
                        Scrawled o’er illegibly in runic wise
                        With time’s own handwriting; and yet her eyes
                        Scarce matched its age—still young with love and teen,
                        As rain in winter keeps the grass more freshly green.
                    
                    
                    
                        XXVIII.
                        “Oh mother, mother!” cried the bearded man,
                        As hurrying up he took her visage wan
                        Between his hands, kissing her face and hair,
                        As it might be a babe’s, with tender care;
                        Then stooping he passed swiftly through the door
                        To where right in the middle of the floor
                        A fire of turf blazed on a flat round stone,
                        Whose leaping flames all round with equal lustre shone.
                    
                    
                        XXIX.
                        There Michael’s father sat by, the red glare
                        Touching her silver canopy of hair
                        Into a fitful brightness, with his proud
                        Grand head erect, though his strong frame was bowed,
                        Felled at one blow—as when upon some height
                        A fir, once fronting the confederate might
                        Of winds from all the compass, on the holt
                        Falls blasted, cloven in twain by heaven’s sheer thunder?bolt.
                    
                    
                    
                        XXX.
                        So Michael, since he was a lad no more,
                        Three feeble lives on his strong shoulders bore
                        Along life’s road: for yet in manhood’s prime,
                        His father had come home one winter time
                        From some fierce battle waged on fields of Spain,
                        Where he and fellows like him helped to gain
                        The day for England’s king—alas! for him 
                        That gain was loss indeed:—crippled in life and limb,
                    
                    
                        XXXI.
                        With right arm gone, on crutches, he returned 
                        Who had gone forth a stalwart man, that burned
                        With lust for action; and while still at heart
                        Life’s pulse beat strongly, he was set apart,
                        Helpless as any log, unfit for toil,
                        Condemned to see the woman drudge and moil,
                        Doing the man’s work and her own beside—
                        Slaving from night to morn, from morn to eventide.
                    
                    
                    
                        XXXII.
                        For she would cut the peat?moss, dig, and plough;
                        Would reap the barley?field and milk the cow;
                        Would spin and weave the wool her hands did shear
                        Into stout plaids and comfortable gear;
                        Would dye the home?spun cloth and rainproof tweed
                        In hues wrung from the ling and sea?brown weed.
                        But even the strength her strong love fed at last
                        Broke with the heavy load on her brave shoulders cast.
                    
                    
                        XXXIII.
                        For though the heart is willing, even unto death,
                        The flesh is weak, and fails with failing breath.
                        Beneath the daily burden’s daily strain,
                        Her work?worn body failed, however fain
                        She was, despite her aching bones, to keep
                        The mate and bairns that could not sow or reap,
                        Yet sorely needed to be housed and fed
                        Howe’er the sun might sear or wild winds howl o’erhead.
                    
                    
                    
                        XXXIV.
                        So she broke down at last, however loth,
                        And her young son now laboured for them both;
                        And for the little sister, barely nine,
                        Who yet would twirl the spindle, coil up twine,
                        Or take their milch cow to the field to graze:
                        So, driven by ceaseless tasks, the urgent days
                        Had waxed and waned, years followed one another,
                        The lass had left her home, herself now wife and mother.
                    
                    
                        XXXV.
                        But honest Michael had not dared to wed
                        The orphan girl whose dark and stately head
                        In harvest fields rose first above the rye—
                        While yet amid the opalescent sky
                        A tremulous and dilatory light,
                        Reluctant on the rear of refluent night,
                        And shuddering through immensities afar
                        Ethereally flamed the bright and morning star.
                    
                    
                    
                        XXXVI.
                        Yea, though her lot was lowly, though the round
                        Of want’s imperious pressure hemmed and bound
                        The orphan’s life with those encircling walls
                        Wherewith predestined poverty enthralls
                        And stuns such toiling folk, until they ask
                        But food and sleep after the long day’s task—
                        Moments she knew when mystical, intense,
                        The universal soul thrilled through her inner sense.
                    
                    
                        XXXVII.
                        Then had she felt what she could ne’er express—
                        A love, a worship, a sublime excess
                        Of pure impersonal rapture such as thrills
                        The lark’s breast when his staunchless music fills
                        Earth, air, and listening heaven;—but all too soon,
                        Like flashes of a storm?bewildered moon
                        Vanished the gleam—once more a rustic lass,
                        She sheared the rustling grain, or through the rushy grass
                    
                    
                    
                        XXXVIII.
                        Wading bare?legged in the chill evening dews,
                        Drove home the cattle, who, with deep?toned moos,
                        Snatched yet one last sweet mouthful and yet one 
                        Ere ruminatingly at set of sun
                        They straggled toward their stalls. And still so well
                        The maid had served her masters, it befell
                        That as the years rolled on deep?hearted Mary 
                        From cow?girl was become head of the Castle dairy.
                    
                    
                        XXXIX.
                        And patient as her lover, and as brave,
                        From out her wages yearly she would save
                        A little hoard of coins, to line the nest
                        What time their life’s love should be crowned and blest
                        In holy wedlock. Of that day now spoke 
                        Those four at meeting, while braw Michael broke
                        His fast with porridge, cakes, and barley bree,
                        By Highland air and hunger seasoned ambrosially.
                    
                    
                    
                        XL.
                        But day declined, the lass must say good?bye,
                        Once more to hasten to her milky kye.
                        Bending a moment o’er the old man’s chair,
                        Her fresh lips reverently touched his hair,
                        To whom—her young form vanishing from sight—
                        The room hath darkened, even as though a light
                        Were put out suddenly; for still the old
                        Warm their chill lives where youth’s warm glowing loves unfold.
                    
                    
                        XLI.
                        And lustily once more that tall pair strode
                        Along the hilly, devious?winding road,
                        White in the harvest moon, who from on high
                        Watched like the night’s love?lighted mother eye
                        Benignly o’er that hill?embosomed glen,
                        Dotted with little homes of Highland men;
                        As though in mercy she would ward and keep
                        All harm from those that there beneath low rafters sleep.
                    
                    
                    
                        XLII.
                        Shine, quiet moonlight, shine! Relax, unloose
                        The sweating peasants’ over?laboured thews!
                        Ease their tired muscles with thy healing balm,
                        Breathe o’er their brows a pure, infantine calm,
                        Dissolving all their senses in the deep
                        Oblivion of immeasurable sleep!
                        Shine, quiet moonlight, shine! O’er roofs like these 
                        Shed downier peace than falls o’er great kings’ palaces.
                    
                    
                        XLIII.
                        Far o’er the moon?white way the lovers sped,
                        And in the moonlight showed transfigurèd, 
                        Till looking on each other, their deep eyes
                        Shone full of love, even as with stars the skies.
                        Silent amid the silence, hand in hand,
                        They hardly walked but floated through a land
                        Whose hills and trees, sheeted in mystic white,
                        Seemed disembodied shapes floating away in light.
                    
                    
                    
                        XLIV.
                        And now the forest with its lichened pines,
                        Through which the broken moonlight swerving shines,
                        Roofs in the pair, outstepping through the deep
                        Wet bracken, whence, with sudden upward leap,
                        Tall antlered creatures start, and stare with eyes
                        Widely dilated in a wild surprise—
                        Then at one bound the herd hath fled, as still
                        As clouds that dreamlike fly athwart an evening hill.
                    
                    
                        XLV.
                        And this the bourne where Michael must be gone—
                        Through here the crested portal leads alone
                        Down the tall avenue, whose furrowed trees
                        Have weathered the same tale of centuries
                        As the square tower and lofty parapet
                        Of the grim castle, which, as black as jet,
                        Against the moon with massive walls doth stand—
                        The lordly mansion of the lord of all that land.
                    
                    
                    
                        XLVI.
                        To him belonged the glens with all their grain;
                        To him the pastures spreading in the plain;
                        To him the hills whence falling waters gleam;
                        To him the salmon swimming in the stream;
                        To him the forests desolately drear,
                        With all their antlered herds of fleet?foot deer;
                        To him the league?long rolling moorland bare,
                        With all the feathered fowl that wing the autumn air.
                    
                    
                        XLVII.
                        For him the hind’s interminable toil:
                        For him he ploughed and sowed and broke the soil,
                        For him the golden harvests would he reap,
                        For him would tend the flocks of woolly sheep,
                        For him would thin the iron?hearted woods,
                        For him track deer in snow?blocked solitudes;
                        For him the back was bent, and hard the hand,
                        For was he not his lord, and lord of all that land?
                    
                
                
                
                    Duan Second.
                    
                        I.
                        ROSE now the longed?for, long?delaying hour
                        To which, as towards the sun the sunward flower,
                        Their hearts had turned though many a year of life,
                        When Michael should take Mary unto wife.
                        Long, long before the laggard sun arose
                        Flushing the hill?sides’ freshly fallen snows,
                        The bride and bridegroom, in their best array,
                        Footed it to the kirk on this their wedding day.
                    
                    
                    
                        II.
                        At home the neighbours, full of kindly zest,
                        Prepared the feast for many a wedding guest;
                        Swept out the barns and scoured the dusky byres;
                        Piled high the peats and kindled roaring fires,
                        Whose merry flames in golden eddies broke
                        Round ancient cauldrons crusted o’er with smoke,
                        Whence an inviting savour steaming rose,
                        As, slowly bubbling, boiled the meaty barley brose.
                    
                    
                        III.
                        Spread was the board; the various kinds of meat,
                        Or roast or stew, sent up a savour sweet,
                        Grateful to Highlanders, whose frugal cheer
                        Is broth and oatmeal porridge all the year.
                        But on this happy day no stint there was
                        For all who liked to come and take their glass
                        Of the good whisky, and with heart zest
                        Drink to the new?wed pair with many a boisterous jest.
                    
                    
                    
                        IV.
                        From township, bothie, shieling, miles away,
                        The guests had flocked to grace this festive day:
                        The shepherd left his fold, the lass her byre,
                        Old folks their ingle?nook beside the fire,
                        Mothers their bairns—yea, half the country?side 
                        Turned out to hail the strapping groom and bride;
                        And jolly pipers scaled the break?neck passes,
                        With frolic tunes to rouse the lightsome lads and lasses.
                    
                    
                        V.
                        Now smoked the feast, now peat?fires cheerier burned,
                        As from the kirk the bridal pair returned;
                        And Michael’s mother rose from her snug seat,
                        And came towards the bride with tottering feet,
                        And tremulous hands outstretched, and sweetly spoke
                        Her welcome: ruddier than her scarlet cloak
                        The bride’s cheek glowed beneath her black silk hood,
                        As on the threshold of her home she blushing stood.
                    
                    
                    
                        VI.
                        Ah! dear to her that narrow, grey?thatched home,
                        Where she would bide through all the years to come;
                        Round which her hopes and memories would entwine
                        With fondness, as the tendrilled eglantine
                        Clings round a cottage porch; where work and love,
                        Like the twin orbs that share the heavens above,
                        Would round their lives, and make the days and nights
                        Glad with the steady flame of those best household lights.
                    
                    
                        VII.
                        Was there no omen, then, no warning thrill,
                        With curdling dread her warm young blood to chill, 
                        To cast the shadow of a coming doom
                        Across the sunshine and the tender bloom
                        Of her new?flowering bliss?—nor anywhere
                        A hint of all the sorrow and despair,
                        The anguish, and the terror, and the strife 
                        Which, earthquake?like, would crush and overwhelm her life?
                    
                    
                    
                        VIII.
                        Thank God that no foreboding shadow fell
                        Across the threshold where love throve so well;
                        Nor was there one endowed with second?sight,
                        To tell of things their present mirth to blight.
                        No, all were joyous! Good cheer made them glad,
                        The whisky gladder still! Tongues wagged like mad!
                        Full oft drank they the bride and bridegroom’s weal,
                        And merrily played the pipers many a stirring reel.
                    
                    
                        IX.
                        And Michael’s father, nodding to the bride,
                        Rapped sharply on the table as he cried,
                        Seizing the cup in his one trembling hand,
                        Like some hoar Patriarch of a storied land:
                        “Lads, here’s to Donald’s memory! Mary, lass,
                        Here’s to thy father! What a man he was!
                        My brave, God?fearing Donald! These old eyes
                        Shall never see his like—so loving, leal, and wise.
                    
                    
                    
                        X.
                        “Lads, here’s to him! Aye, well I mind the day
                        When on the heights of Aldea crouched we lay
                        For hours amid the furze, and thundering hot
                        The sun blazed, and we durst not fire a shot,
                        We of the Forty?Second: up the steep
                        Like cats we saw the stealthy Frenchmen creep—
                        Our General, too, asleep! To ward off flies,
                        He’d put a sheet of news across his steely eyes.
                    
                    
                        XI.
                        “By’r Lord! if there he didn’t take his rest
                        As sweetly as an infant at the breast.
                        But when our captain up to him—he woke,
                        Just raised his head a bit, and answering spoke:
                        ’The Frenchmen coming up the hill? What then?
                        Drive me these Frenchmen down again, my men!’
                        Aye, and we did so, without more Parlez;
                        To hear Sir Arthur, bless your hearts, was to obey.
                    
                    
                    
                        XII.
                        “Fluttered our plaids behind us down the hill,
                        And how our bayonets shone! I see them still
                        Flash back the Spanish sunlight! Oh, the sight,
                        To see these black French devils taking flight,
                        And helter?skelter in their hurry run
                        Backwards with clashing swords! Then, lads, the fun
                        Of chasing Johnny Crapaud, as we here
                        With loud halloos and shouts follow the flying deer.
                    
                    
                        XIII.
                        “But needs they must come back! And, as before,
                        The General says, ‘Why, drive them back once more!’”
                        The old man paused, looked round, took a long drain
                        Of usquebaugh, and said, “Look you, again
                        Those Frenchmen swarmed more numerous than before
                        Up the hill?side! Sir Arthur, on being told,
                        Moved not a muscle, but just calm and cold
                        As was his wont, he muttered, still quite civil:
                        ’Drive me, I say, these Frenchmen to the devil!’
                    
                    
                    
                        XIV.
                        “And that we did! By’r Lord, we did that time!”
                        Some thumped the floor, some made their glasses chime,
                        Some quaffed more whisky as the board they smote
                        With shouts of bravo! Rory cleared his throat,
                        And added calmly, in his deep?toned bass:
                        “Aye, ’tis like yesterday, my little lass,
                        Since I saw Donald last;—but few, my dear, 
                        Will mind him that’s awa’ of all the good folk here.
                    
                    
                        XV.
                        “Well, lads, we fired one volley ere we charged,
                        And by my side the faithful comrade marched,
                        When in a twinkling—mark you!—Donald Blair
                        Lap suddenly right up into the air;
                        As I have seen a noble red deer leap,
                        Shot by a gillie, then all of a heap
                        Fall down face foremost—so he struck the sod:
                        I’d fell the hand that fired the shot, so help me
                            God!
                    
                    
                    
                        XVI.
                        “The firing slackened then; I’d marked him well;
                        And by?and?by my turn came, when we fell
                        To fighting hand to hand—I knew him by 
                        The white patch on his nose, and sure ’twas I
                        That passed my bayonet through him; so the trick
                        Was done, you see; he followed pretty quick 
                        At my poor Donald’s heels, the loon! ah well,
                        He ne’er went back to France, but like enough to hell.
                    
                    
                        
                            XVII.
                        
                        “So Donald was avenged—we won the day.
                        ’Tis lang syne now, the brown heads have turned grey,
                        The grey are in their graves; but seems I hear
                        At whiles brave Donald’s laugh so ringing clear,
                        And see his teeth gleam through his curly beard.
                        Those were braw fechting days! Ye’ll all have heard
                        Tell on the Forty?Second? Show us the glen
                        In Highland or in Island sent not its bonny men!”
                    
                    
                    
                        XVIII.
                        The old man’s eyes gleamed with young fire again.
                        “Here’s to the lads we left behind in Spain!”
                        He cried, and quaffed his bumper with a will.
                        And now the pipers struck up a loud and shrill;
                        And while the old sat spinning many a yarn,
                        The young folk blithely gathered in the barn;
                        And with their fun and loud?resounding laughter,
                        Shook the worm?eaten beams and cobweb?crusted rafter.
                    
                    
                        XIX.
                        Cheeks flushed, eyes sparkled, hearts beat high and fast,
                        As o’er the floor their feet revolving passed,
                        Till, to the sound of hornpipes and of reels,
                        It seemed their hearts went dancing in their heels.
                        With rhythmic motions now, and face to face,
                        They tap the shaking boards with natural grace;
                        Then, with the wild deer’s swiftness, boy and girl
                        Circling in dizzy maze around each other twirl.
                    
                    
                    
                        XX.
                        And as they fling, and cling, and wheel, and pass,
                        Many a lover lightly hugs his lass;
                        And many a village belle and queen of hearts
                        Makes desperate havoc with her simple arts
                        ’Mid her adoring swains, who, while they shower 
                        Their melting glances on her, glare and glower 
                        Upon their rivals, whom, while meekly sighing,
                        With many a fervid kick they fain would send a?flying.
                    
                    
                        XXI.
                        But still among the bonnie dancers there 
                        Michael and Mary were the bonniest pair:
                        So tall and stately, moving ’mid the rout
                        Of flushed and panting couples, wrapped about
                        With the pure glory of love, which seemed to fill
                        And permeate their features with a still
                        And tender glow—impassioned yet serene,
                        The scripture of true hearts revealed in rustic mien.
                    
                    
                    
                        XXII.
                        On, on they whirled to many a loud strathspey,
                        Long after groom and bride had gone away;
                        Long after the late half?moon’s dwindling light
                        Had risen grisly on the snowy night,
                        Through which the wind, in sudden fits and spasms,
                        Went roaring through the roaring mountain chasms,
                        And then fell silent—with a piercing cry,
                        Like a sore?hunted beast in its last agony!
                    
                    
                        XXIII.
                        But oh, what cared these merry wedding?guests,
                        With flying pulses and with throbbing breasts,
                        For all the piping winds and palely snows!—
                        Their pipes out?played the wind?notes, and their toes
                        Out?whirled the whirling snowflakes, and bright eyes
                        Did very well instead of starry skies;
                        And as the winter night grew drear and drearier,
                        Music and mountain dew but made them all the cheerier.
                    
                    
                    
                        XXIV.
                        And so the wedding lasted full three days,
                        With dance and song kept at a roaring pace,
                        And drinking no whit slacker; then the feast
                        Came to an end at last, and many a beast—
                        Rough Highland sheltie, or sure?footed ass—
                        Carried them safe o’er stream and mountain pass,
                        Through treacherous mosses and by darkling wood,
                        Till safe and sound once more by their own hearths they stood.
                    
                
                
                
                    Duan Third.
                    
                        I.
                        YEARS had passed on: the ever?rolling years
                        On which man’s joys and sorrows, hopes and fears,
                        His loves and longings, are swept on and on,
                        Like airy bubbles sparkling in the sun,
                        Which, forming in a labouring vessel’s wake,
                        Flash for a moment, in a moment break;
                        Frail flowers of foam, dissolving as they quiver,
                        To sink and rise, and sink upon life’s rushing river.
                    
                    
                    
                        II.
                        Once more nine Aprils, with fleet sun and showers,
                        On wan hill?sides had lit a flame of flowers;
                        Once more nine harvest moons in sheltered nooks
                        Saw the shorn fields piled with the barley stooks,
                        Since Michael had brought home his dear loved wife,
                        The faithful partner of his arduous life:
                        Both toiling late and soon, year out year in,
                        For the old folk and wee bairns the needful bread to win.
                    
                    
                        III.
                        But toil is long—and hard the stubborn strife
                        Which with the inclement elements for bare life
                        The Crofter wages; yet for all his ills
                        Deep?rooted love unto the soil he tills
                        The stout heart bears;—as mothers oft are fain
                        To love those best who cost them sorest pain;
                        So do these men, matched with wild wind and weather,
                        Cling to their tumbling burns, bleak moors, and mountain heather.
                    
                    
                    
                        IV.
                        And lo! once more it was the time of year
                        When berries crimson and green leaves grow sere;
                        When bluebells shelter numb, belated bees,
                        And on the outstretched arms of wayside trees
                        Dangle long wisps of oats, whose casual grain
                        The thievish sparrows plunder, as the wain
                        Creaks slowly, lurching sideways, to the croft,
                        Whose sheaves, by stout arms tossed, are stored in barn and loft;—
                    
                    
                        V.
                        That time of year when, smoke?like, from the deep
                        Atlantic ocean, fast ascending, sweep
                        Innumerably the rain?burthened clouds
                        Taking the sun by storm, and with dim crowds
                        Confusing heaven, as, flying from the gale,
                        They blur the lineaments of hill and dale,
                        Till, dashed on giddy peak and blasted scaur,
                        Their waters breaking loose, crash in one long downpour.
                    
                    
                    
                        VI.
                        A drear autumnal night! The gusty rain
                        Drums on the thatch; the tousled birches strain,
                        Bending before the blast; and far and wide
                        The writhen pines roar like a roaring tide,
                        With which the tumult of the troubled stream
                        Mingles its rumbling flood: a night to dream 
                        Of dire shipwrecks and sudden deaths at sea—
                        Yet here, ’neath lowly cot, all sleep most peacefully.
                    
                    
                        VII.
                        All sleep but Mary, hushing in her arm
                        The child whose moans now mingle with the storm
                        And now fall silent, as his curly head
                        Nestles against her breast, that burns to shed
                        The warmth of life into her ailing bairn,
                        O’er whom her eyes compassionately yearn
                        With love, such as some master genius fine
                        Limned in her namesake’s eyes, bent o’er the child divine.
                    
                    
                    
                        VIII.
                        Yea, Mary watched alone, while round her lay
                        The nut?brown heads of children, and the grey
                        Deep?furrowed brows of age: now and again,
                        In the brief pauses of the hurricane,
                        She caught their rhythmic breathing through the thick
                        Laborious cough and panting of the sick
                        And feverish child, who now and then made moan—
                        “Oh, mother, mother dear! take off that heavy stone.”
                    
                    
                        IX.
                        “Aye, aye,” she crooned, stifling a heavy sigh;
                        “Aye, aye, my precious darlin’, mother’ll try.”
                        And all the night by the red peat?fire’s glare,
                        As many a night before of carking care,
                        With healing warmth she eased the poor child’s ache,
                        And with sweet cooling drinks his thirst did slake.
                        At last the racking, troublous cough did cease,
                        And dozing off towards dawn, he slumbered more at ease.
                    
                    
                    
                        X.
                        The tempest too lulled suddenly: a swound 
                        As of spent forces hushed the wuthering sound
                        And tumult of the elements; wan and grey
                        In the eastern heavens broke the irresolute day
                        Still pale and tearful, as the close?veiled sun
                        Like one who fears to see the havoc done
                        Peered furtively; his first and faltering ray
                        Hailed by a lark’s clear voice hymning the new?born day.
                    
                    
                        XI.
                        A poor caged lark! But as the exultant note
                        Burst from the little palpitating throat
                        Of the imprisoned songster, the dull yoke
                        Of care that seemed to stifle Mary broke 
                        In a hot flood of tears; yea, hope once more,
                        Like a tall pillar of fire, shone before
                        Her groping steps—the bird’s voice seemed to tell
                        Her listening, anxious heart all would be well, be well.
                    
                    
                    
                        XII.
                        “Yea, all would yet be well,” she murmured; “soon,
                        With this first quarter of the hunter’s moon
                        Father would come back from the seas, and bring
                        His gains wherewith to buy so many a thing
                        Sore needed by the bairn!” Therewith she rose
                        More comforted at heart, and tucked the clothes
                        Warmly around the child, and softly kissed
                        The little sleeper’s thin, brown, closely curled?up fist.
                    
                    
                        XIII.
                        And lifting his moist curls, she faintly smiled, 
                        Remembering how last June her ailing child,
                        As blithe and bonnie as the other twin,
                        His sister Mary, had come toddling in,
                        Ruffled and rosy, pressing to his breast 
                        With chubby fingers, a forsaken nest,
                        From which the startled lark had fled in fear,
                        When ’mid the falling swathes the mowers’ scythes rang near.
                    
                    
                    
                        XIV.
                        But he had rescued it from being crushed
                        By trampling feet, and eager?eyed and flushed
                        Had toddled to the cottage with its shy,
                        Poor half?fledged nestling, that did feebly cry
                        For food and warmth and mother’s folding wing;
                        But lovingly he tended the wee thing—
                        And lo! it lived, ceasing to pine and fret:
                        In narrow cage it sang, sweet Michael’s cherished pet.
                    
                    
                        XV.
                        The song aroused the household. One by one
                        They rose to do their taskwork with the sun;
                        All but the aged woman, now too sore
                        To leave her bed, or labour any more,
                        Save with her hands, which still found strength to knit
                        Warm stockings for her son. Old Rory lit
                        His pipe, and bending o’er the smouldering fire,
                        Piled on the well?dried peats and made the flame leap higher.
                    
                    
                    
                        XVI.
                        Fair Ranza hurried to her dear?loved cow,
                        Shobhrag, the primrose?hued, that with a low
                        Of deep content greeted the little maid,
                        Who bade her a good day, and fondly laid
                        A soft pale cheek against her shaggy side;
                        Then pressing the full udders, sat astride
                        On her small three?legged stool, and watched the white
                        Warm stream of milk filling her pail with keen delight:
                    
                    
                        XVII.
                        Yet took great care not to take more than half,
                        Nor rob the little, cuddling, week?old calf
                        That stood near by—a glossy golden brown,
                        Most like a chestnut roughly tumbled down,
                        When its smooth burnished kernel seems to swell
                        And burst athwart the trebly?cloven shell—
                        Whose limpid eyes, pathetically meek,
                        From their mute depths unto the gentle child did speak.
                    
                    
                    
                        XVIII.
                        And bare?legged ruddy Ion, whistling shrill,
                        Scampered across the grass all wet and chill,
                        And littered with brown leaves and berries red,
                        While as he brushed the hedge its brambles shed
                        Brief showers upon him, as with prying look
                        He keenly searched each ditch and hidden nook
                        For a scarce egg or two, which now and then
                        Was laid safe out of sight by some secretive hen.
                    
                    
                        XIX.
                        And Mary, bending o’er the peat?fire’s glare,
                        Its bright light dancing on her crispy hair
                        And white face worn with watching, yet so grand
                        Lit with those eyes of her, turned with one hand
                        The well?browned oat?cakes, while her other one
                        Had hold of little Maisie, whose bright fun
                        Was kept in check by whispers from her mother,
                        Not to disturb or wake the little sleeping brother.
                    
                    
                    
                        XX.
                        At last they gathered round the humble fare,
                        The youngest child repeating the Lord’s prayer
                        With broken baby tones and bended head:
                        “Give us,” she lisped, “this day our daily bread,”
                        When a loud hurried knocking at the door
                        Startled the little circle; even before
                        They well knew how, into the room there broke
                        A hurried, flurried group of scared, distracted folk,
                    
                    
                        XXI.
                        Wild, panic?stricken neighbours, blanched with dread.
                        How helpless looked the strong! Discomfited,
                        Like men from field?work driven by sudden foe
                        Who yet instinctive clutched their spade or hoe!
                        And unkempt wives anomalously dressed
                        With querulous infants huddled to the breast;
                        Showing, in quivering lip and quailing eye,
                        The inevitable stroke of swift calamity.
                    
                    
                    
                        XXII.
                        Yet ere one spoke, or could have said a word,
                        Mary had waved them back: “Nay, by the Lord,
                        Not here, not here,” she whispered hoarse and low;
                        “My child is sick—the sleep he’s sleeping now 
                        Is worth a life;” then with a pleading sign
                        She to the old man’s care seemed to resign
                        Her little ones, and softly closed the door,
                        Bracing each quivering nerve for some dire grief in store,
                    
                    
                        XXIII.
                        And walked slow?footed to the outer gate,
                        ’Gainst which she leant her body like a weight;
                        And with dry lips, low querying, barely sighed—
                        “Michael? The tempest?” But a neighbour cried,
                        One of her kin, who grasped her round the waist—
                        “No, no, look yon!” And with bare arm upraised 
                        She pointed up the glen, whence drifting came 
                        Dark clouds of rolling smoke lit by red tongues of flame.
                    
                    
                    
                        XXIV.
                        And through the rolling smoke a troop of men
                        Tramped swiftly nearer from the upper glen;
                        Fierce, sullen, black with soot, some carrying picks,
                        Axes, crow bars, others armed with sticks,
                        Or shouldering piles of faggots—to the fore.
                        A little limping man, who cursed and swore
                        Between each word, came on post?haste; his hand,
                        Stretched like a vulture’s claw, seemed grabbing at the land.
                    
                    
                        XXV.
                        “The deil a one of all the lot shall stay;
                        They’ve a’been warned—I’ll grant no more delay;
                        So let them e’en be smoked out from their holes,
                        To which the stubborn beggars stick like moles,
                        Cumbering the ill?used soil they hack and scratch,
                        And call it tillage! Silly hens that’d hatch
                        Their addled eggs, whether they will or no,
                        Are beaten off, and sure these feckless fules maun go.”
                    
                    
                    
                        
                            XXVI.
                        
                        So on from glen to glen, from hut to hut,
                        The hated factor came with arrogant strut
                        And harsh imperious voice, and at one stroke,
                        Of house and home bereft these hapless folk,
                        Biding all inmates to come forth in haste:
                        For now shall their poor dwellings be laid waste,
                        Their thatch be fired, walls levelled with the leas,
                        And they themselves be shipped far o’er the wide, wild seas.
                    
                    
                        
                            XXVII.
                        
                        Thus through his grasping steward bids the chief,
                        In whom hereditary, fond belief
                        Honours the proud head of their race—the man
                        Whose turbulent forbears their devoted clan
                        Had served in bloody wars, nor grudged to yield
                        Their lives for them in many a battle?field:
                        But in these latter days men’s lives are cheap,
                        And hard?worked Highlanders pay worse than lowland sheep.
                    
                    
                    
                        
                            XXVIII.
                        
                        And so that he unstinted may abide
                        In all the pomp and power of lordly pride,
                        Riot in lawless loves, or if he please,
                        Have a refreshing change of palaces;
                        Or softly warmed in scented orange bowers,
                        Shun his moist land of mist and mountain showers,
                        The far?off master hath declared his will,
                        To have the Crofters swept from every dale and hill.
                    
                    
                        XXIX.
                        Ah! sore’s the day to those unhappy folk,
                        Whose huts must fall beneath the hammer’s stroke,
                        As now the thud of heavy trampling feet
                        Draws close and closer to their village street;
                        Where, hurrying aimlessly, some wildly stray,
                        While others stand and stare in blank dismay,
                        And with the sudden shout—“They come! They come!”
                        The neighbors rush in fear, each to his threatened home.
                    
                    
                    
                        XXX.
                        But one, still grasping Mary by the waist,
                        Abode with her, and said: “Haste, woman, haste!
                        Let’s get the old man and the bairns away,
                        And whatsoe’er of goods and gear we may,
                        Before the factor’s men break in, and fling
                        Your bedding in the road and everything
                        Ye’se bought right dear, and pots and pans and a’
                        Lie ruined past the mending, broken by their fa’.”
                    
                    
                        XXXI.
                        But Mary, answering with ’bated breath,
                        “Ah! d’ye forget our child nigh sick to death,
                        And the old bedridden mother?”—even before 
                        Her tremulous lips could add a syllable more,
                        A voice smote on her ear, most like the screech 
                        Of some fell bird of prey than human speech,
                        That bade her, at the law’s resistless call,
                        To clear out quickly, bag and baggage, once for all.
                    
                    
                    
                        XXXII.
                        And Mary clasped her hands and raised her eyes,
                        And with a sudden throb of sharp surprise
                        She knew the little man who, years gone by,
                        When she was but a lass who kept the kye—
                        A bare?legged lassie, but most fair and slim,
                        Like a young poplar swayed at the wind’s whim—
                        Had come a?courting, and with fierce suit dunned
                        The maiden for her love, while she him loathed and shunned.
                    
                    
                        XXXIII.
                        She knew the man, and a quick searing red
                        Burned cheeks as wan as hueless petals shed
                        By wind?nipped flowers in autumn. “Lord,” she cried,
                        “Ha’ mercy! ’tis Dick Galloway,” and eyed
                        The factor for a while; then sighing said—
                        “There’s Michael’s mother, she’s now been a?bed
                        A weary while; ah, sir, she is that old
                        That if she’s moved, for sure she’ll die of cramp and cold.”
                    
                    
                    
                        XXXIV.
                        Then with a break and pleading change of tone, 
                        She pointed o’er her shoulder with a moan
                        As of a cushat dove in forest deeps—
                        “My child’s been sick, sir; now, thank God, he sleeps.
                        To drag him out into the gousty glen
                        Would be sheer murder! Oh, come ben, come ben,
                        And see him smile so sweetly where he lies,
                        ’Most like one of God’s angels up in Paradise.
                    
                    
                        XXXV.
                        “Ye see, if ye’ll but bide a little span,
                        Michael’ll be back, and he’s a canny man
                        For rare devices, and will surely find
                        A way to shelter them from rain and wind;
                        And we’ll go quiet and make no lament,
                        Though me and Michael’s always paid the rent
                        Howe’er we pinched oursel’s when times were bad;
                        But now ye ken my plight, come see the curly lad.”
                    
                    
                    
                        XXXVI.
                        “Plague take the woman, what a mighty fuss
                        ’Bout a bedridden hag and sickly cuss!
                        D’ye think, dem, I’ll stand jawing at this rate
                        About sick brats at every beggar’s gate?
                        Time’s money’s worth,” the lowland factor sneered;
                        And with a vicious gnawing of his beard,
                        And something of a leer and bantering whine,
                        “Ye’re not so saucy, lass, as was your wont lang syne.
                    
                    
                        XXXVII.
                        “Ye mind,” he hissed, lowering his voice, “I’se bet,
                        What a big fool ye made of me; and yet,
                        Mary, you were a bigger! Down I went 
                        In the wet grass right on my knees, and spent
                        My breath in sighs, and, damn me! all ye’d say
                        Was, with a loud guffaw, ‘Dick Galloway,
                        For shame, get up, get up, man!’ Then I swore
                        You’d rue it, as you have, and shall do more and more.
                    
                    
                    
                        XXXVIII.
                        “Come, come, time’s up! Clear out of this, I say!
                        Here, lads, come hither; help to clear away
                        This stinking rubbish heap—some of ye chaps
                        Here lend a hand, clear out this woman’s traps.
                        Of all these dirty huts the glen we’ll sweep,
                        And clear it for the fatted lowland sheep.”
                        Then, with a mocking bow and a limping gait,
                        Left Mary standing there—dumb by the rustic gate.
                    
                    
                        XXXIX.
                        “Cowards!” she cried, with a fierce flash of light
                        In her big eyes, and reared to her full height,
                        And waved them back as might some warrior queen,
                        Full?armed and fearless, of her people seen
                        Foremost upon the ramparts as the foe
                        Scales her fair walls before their overthrow?
                        Yea, even with such an air the woman stood:
                        “Cowards!” she cried once more, “thirst ye for children’s blood?”
                    
                    
                    
                        XL.
                        Her regal presence and her flashing eyes,
                        Raised as in supplication to the skies,
                        Awed even these surly men, who still delayed
                        To shove her back, and make a sudden raid
                        Upon her cottage;—brutal as they were,
                        The motherhood that yearned through her despair
                        Awed them a moment—but a moment more
                        They’d hustled her aside and tramped towards the door.
                    
                    
                        XLI.
                        Swifter than they—yea, at a single bound
                        She swooped above her child’s bed, wrapped him round
                        In a thick plaid, and clasped him to her breast,
                        And panting—“Father, see ye to the rest,
                        So help me God I can’t,” she, clutching hold
                        Of Maisie’s hand, strode out into the cold;
                        And on a fir uprooted by the gale
                        Sat down, and hushed the child that ’gan to hoarsely wail.
                    
                    
                    
                        XLII.
                        Meanwhile the men fell to their work and broke
                        The rough?cast walls with many a hammer stroke;
                        Pulled down strong beams, set the mossed thatch on fire,
                        While Ranza, quivering flew towards the byre
                        To save their cow and calf; and the young son
                        Of seven seized what he could lay hands upon,
                        And dragged it in the roadway, for the lad
                        Knew well ’twas all the wealth his hard?worked father had.
                    
                    
                        XLIII.
                        And ancient Rory, tottering on his crutch,
                        Tried all in vain with his one hand to clutch
                        And lift his palsied wife, who could not hear
                        His hurried words, all tremulous with fear,
                        With which he tried to rouse her—all her moan,
                        A peevish whimper to be left alone,
                        Till ’mazed, he hobbled off in wild suspense,
                        Shouting for neighbours’ help to bear the old wife hence.
                    
                    
                    
                        
                            XLIV.
                        
                        Where all was tumult and confusion, where
                        Shrill cries and wild entreaties filled the air,
                        And breathless folk pushed wildly to and fro,
                        They hardly heeded one another’s woe.
                        Long, long it seemed ere Rory’s perilous plight
                        Brought him a helping hand—oh curdling sight!
                        Too late, too late!—blankets and bedding blazed
                        Around the poor old soul, whose skinny arms upraised
                    
                    
                        XLV.
                        Hacked feebly ’gainst the flames that rose and fell
                        Hissing and crackling round her. “I’m in hell!”
                        She mumbled crazily, and stared with dim,
                        Lack?lustre eyes, struggling with palsied limb
                        To fly but could not: with his desperate roar,
                        It seemed the strength of by?gone days once more
                        Surged through the old man’s shrunken veins; he caught
                        The woman up and bore her hence with horror half distraught.
                    
                    
                    
                        XLVI.
                        And laid her by the wayside, where her gear
                        Hissed on the heather; like a village Lear
                        His eyes rolled maddening, while some neighbours came,
                        And flinging water on the greedy flame,
                        They quickly quenched it—but as quickly, oh!
                        That other flame went out, which here below,
                        No skill of man hath learned to light again:
                        Eyes closed, heart stopped, shut fast and locked on human pain.
                    
                    
                        XLVII.
                        Yet where so many suffered one more wail 
                        Of anguish scarce was heeded! Rang the dale
                        With lamentation and low muttering wrath,
                        As homestead after homestead in the strath, 
                        As hut on hut perched tip?toe on the hills,
                        Or crouched by burn?sides big with storm?bred rills,
                        Blazed up in unison, till all the glen
                        Stood in red flames with homes of ousted Highland men.
                    
                    
                    
                        XLVIII.
                        And through the dire confusion and smoke
                        From burning byres, the cattle roaring broke,
                        And mad with terror, rushed down from the fells;
                        Whole flocks tore bleating onwards, with the yells
                        Of furious dogs behind them; whins and trees
                        Caught fire, and boughs fell crackling on the leas,
                        And smouldering rafters crashed, and roofs fell in,
                        And showers of wind?blown sparks high up in air did spin.
                    
                    
                        XLIX.
                        Distracted, stunned, amazed, the hurrying folk
                        Sway to and fro; some harness to the yoke
                        The loudly whinnying horses, and on van
                        Or cart, in desperate haste, toss what they can 
                        Of their scant household goods: clothes, bedding, chairs,
                        Spades, hoes, and herring?nets, and such like wares;
                        And high atop of all, well high despairing,
                        Wives, mothers, children—howling, weeping, swearing.
                    
                    
                    
                        L.
                        Here a bold shepherd leaps from rock to rock,
                        And vainly calls his wildly scattering flock;
                        Caught some in burning bushes, or on high
                        Shown motionless, as marble ’gainst the sky,
                        Where on some jutting shelf a step amiss
                        Will hurl them headlong down the precipice.
                        There, at their peril, clambering cottars seek
                        To save their precious crops, half stifled with the reek.
                    
                    
                        LI.
                        But women?folk and children chiefly throng
                        Helpless about the pathways, since the strong
                        And able?bodied tarry yet at sea,
                        Netting the herrings which innumerably
                        Swim in the merry moonlight; and, perchance,
                        While round their keels the silvery waters dance,
                        Their hearts fly homewards to the huts even then 
                        A?blazing up by hundreds through their native glen.
                    
                    
                    
                        LII.
                        Yea, all that night about the winding strath—
                        On brown hill?side and giddy mountain path,
                        Or where, on dolorous moor and blanching mere,
                        The dark mist lolled and floated, far and near,
                        Reddening the river chafed by granite blocks,
                        The drear ravines, the vapour?shrouded rocks,
                        And realms wind?haunted—hung that awful light
                        Of huts and flaming farms ensanguining the night.
                    
                    
                        LIII.
                        And ever, as procession?like on high
                        Swiftly across the wind?tormented sky
                        The wingèd clouds, crossing from sea to sea,
                        Rolled o’er the mountain?valley, suddenly
                        Their livid masses stricken with the glare
                        Kindled a wrathful crimson, till the air
                        Seemed to take fire, infected from below,
                        And earth from heaven itself to catch the unnatural glow.
                    
                    
                    
                        LIV.
                        And all that lurid night, beside the stream,
                        With many a wind?snapped pine and blackened beam
                        Hurrying to seaward in the fitful glare
                        Of blazing roofs and rafters, Mary’s care
                        Was centered on the child upon her knee,
                        Who gasped, convulsed, in his last agony,
                        Close to the burden of the life beneath
                        Her heart—that battle?field of wrestling life and death.
                    
                    
                        LV.
                        And round her lay little ones, the shawl
                        Snatched from her neck a covering for them all—
                        Where half hid in her gown the nestling things
                        Showed, as through feathers of maternal wings
                        The yellow heads of new?hatched chickens peep;
                        Yet ’mid confusion calm, they slept the sleep
                        Of innocents, while watchful mother eyes
                        Shone o’er them fair as stars flickering through stormy skies.
                    
                    
                    
                        LVI.
                        The air blew chillier as faint streaks of grey
                        Broadened towards that mystic time of day
                        Which oftenest ushers in the feeble cry
                        Of new?born babes, and hears the last good?bye
                        Faltered from dying lips; even at that hour
                        When close?shut petals feel the living power
                        And thrill of light, the child, with gasping breath,
                        Shuddered convulsed, and shrank as from the frost of death.
                    
                    
                        LVII.
                        Then suddenly his writhing limbs relaxed,
                        The fair, transparent features slowly waxed
                        Crescent in beauty, and, with nameless awe
                        Dilating, glowed the eyes, as if they saw
                        Dawning upon the unfathomable night
                        And dumb abysms of death, light within light
                        Shining prophetic on those infant eyes,
                        Limpid as mountain meres, that glass the starry skies.
                    
                    
                    
                        LVIII.
                        Like to a drop of morning dew that shone
                        In momentary lustre and is gone;
                        Like to a new?lit taper whose fair light
                        A sudden gust hath quenched ere fall of night;
                        Like to a fresh?blown lily which the storm
                        Hath broken ere its time, the flower?like form
                        Of the fair child lay on its mother’s knee,
                        Unconscious of her sharp, shrill cry of agony,
                    
                    
                        LIX.
                        “Oh, Michael, oh, my son!” The piercing wail
                        Of human grief went echoing on the gale
                        That sobbed about the pine tops. Howling bayed 
                        The dogs, as if they also mourned the dead;
                        Then keenly sniffed the air, and barked and leaped
                        About the woman’s skirts. The children wept.
                        Steps crackled on the leaves. And like a dart
                        Straight aimed, flew Michael, straining Mary to his heart.
                    
                    
                    
                        LX.
                        Lo, all her pent?up anguish, all her fears,
                        Then broke their flood?gates in a storm of tears
                        Upon her husband’s shoulder; with her arms
                        Locked closely round him, the fell night’s alarms,
                        The home in ashes laid, the sick and old
                        Relentlessly thrust forth into the cold
                        Autumnal night—yea, all the pain and trouble
                        Seemed bearable to her, now that her heart was double.
                    
                    
                        LXI.
                        Few were his words. What comfort was in speech?
                        The news had smitten Michael on the beach,
                        Where late at night he landed. For a cloud
                        Of densely rolling smoke hung like a shroud
                        On the familiar cliffs and well?known bay,
                        Till the bewildered mariners lost their way
                        Even in broad noon, but won the shore at night,
                        Piloted by the flames that flashed from vale and height.
                    
                    
                    
                        
                            LXII.
                        
                        Oh, ghastly home?coming! Oh, cruel blow!
                        To find their levelled walls and huts laid low;
                        Their crofts destroyed, their stacks of fragrant hay
                        Devoured of greedy flames or borne away
                        By all the winds of heaven. Oh, harrowing sight!
                        Sore labour’s fruits all wasted in a night;
                        The banished clansmen hurrying to the shore,
                        To sound of pipes that wail, Farewell for evermore.
                    
                    
                        
                            LXIII.
                        
                        They fly and turn not on the hireling band,
                        That unresisting drives them from their land.
                        Dowered with the lion’s strength, like lambs they go,
                        For saith the preacher: “God will have it so.
                        Therefore, lest worse befall them, lest they yell
                        Hereafter from the burning pit of Hell,
                        Let them in judgment for their sins go hence,
                        Nor vainly strive, poor folk, against God’s providence.”
                    
                
                
                
                    Duan Fourth.
                    
                        I.
                        HIGH among sea?bleached rocks, and bleached as they,
                        Naked to summer storm, to wintry day,
                        Unroofed and windowless, a ruined keep
                        Tottered, suspended o’er the turbulent deep,
                        That evermore with hungry lap and moan
                        Gnawed worrying at the bald precipitous stone,
                        Whose shrubless gaunt anatomy defied
                        The siege and ruthless onset of the battering tide.
                    
                    
                    
                        II.
                        Here it was rumoured, once from furthest Thule
                        Tall Vikings landed and had fixed their rule,
                        Harrying the Gaelic people. Here, they said,
                        One, yet red?handed, forcibly had wed
                        A slaughtered chieftain’s child. White as sea?foam,
                        He bore the bride up to his eagle home,
                        Whose hollow vaults echoed the huge carousals
                        In celebration of those terrible espousals.
                    
                    
                        III.
                        But in the dead of night the bride arose,
                        And noiselessly as the pale drifting snows,
                        The two?edged sword of him, who, drenched with wine,
                        Slept there, she brandished in the dim moonshine,
                        And sheathed it in his heart; then where he lay
                        Cursed him with a strange curse and fled away:
                        That curse which for long centuries had preyed
                        Upon those grisly walls, the credulous sea?folk said.
                    
                    
                    
                        IV.
                        To these ill?omened ruins, where all rank
                        And blistering weeds grew thickly ’mid the dank
                        Coarse grass and thistles, where the flat?mouthed toad
                        Squatted, where foxes found secure abode,
                        Where whooping owls with lidless eyes did stare,
                        And fluttered bats athwart the dusky air
                        Shot shuttlewise—even thither Michael bore
                        Mary, and her sore pangs at his own vitals tore.
                    
                    
                        
                            V.
                        
                        For in these ruins, where the hunted beast
                        Burrowed secure, the outcasts hoped at least
                        The factor’s gang would never track their prey.
                        With breathless haste the Crofter cleared away
                        The mouldering rubbish, and with infinite care,
                        On the hard pillow of the ruinous stair
                        He propped the dear dark head of her whose spent
                        Attenuated frame with coming life was rent.
                    
                    
                    
                        VI.
                        And to the barren moorland waste forlorn,
                        Treeless—but for a solitary thorn
                        That, lightning?stricken and bereft of leaf,
                        Stood like a gallows waiting for its thief—
                        The little children went, and blue with cold
                        And hunger, searched upon the gusty wold
                        For the spare rust?brown ferns and shrivelled heather
                        To ease their mother’s bones in place of flock and feather.
                    
                    
                        VII.
                        Their father meanwhile knocked a stancheon
                        Into some rotten chinks, and thereupon
                        Stretched a tarred sail across the corner where 
                        His wife lay shivering in the inclement air
                        Whistling through hole and cranny; from the ground
                        Sought waifs and strays, and by a godsend found
                        A piece of solid drift?wood, unawares,
                        Mayhap, of smugglers left, there hiding perilous wares.
                    
                    
                    
                        VIII.
                        And with much coaxing of the spitting fuel,
                        That seemed to wage a sort of spiteful duel
                        With the recoiling flames, the fitful spark
                        Flared up at last and wavered through the dark,
                        As blowing with strong lungs to fan the blaze,
                        Michael, with new?ploughed furrows in his face,
                        Stooped over it, to grill the caller herring,
                        While flameward to their death the flurried moths came whirring.
                    
                    
                        IX.
                        Then with a mother’s tenderness he fed
                        The shivering, fretful children, and like lead
                        Their lids fell to, even while the small white teeth
                        Munched the sore?needed food, as with a sheath
                        Slumber encompassed them. The weary souls,
                        Like little foxes snuggling in their holes,
                        Lay close around the fire with curled?up toes,
                        Warmed by the bickering flames and deaf to all their woes.
                    
                    
                    
                        X.
                        Deaf to the rising blast that rushed and beat
                        Against the walls—to volleying hail and sleet
                        Rattling like grapeshot—to the breakers’ boom
                        That right beneath them in the hollow gloom
                        Seemed plucking at the everlasting rocks
                        With such terrific and reiterate shocks
                        Of crashing seas—deaf as the very stones
                        To lashing winds and waves mixed with their mother’s groans.
                    
                    
                        XI.
                        And as the tempest rose, and as the night
                        Grew wild and wilder, in the topmost height
                        Of heaven the sundering cloud?gates showed above
                        Where the white moon was fleeing like a dove
                        Before the wrack, or like a living soul
                        Escaped the body’s ponderous control,
                        And launched into eternity—even so
                        Her weltering light appeared to Michael in his woe,
                    
                    
                    
                        XII.
                        Where, gripped with pain and ineffectual rage,
                        And helpless as a lion in his cage,
                        He paced the roofless chamber, or would start
                        Into the storm to ease his bursting heart.
                        And rushing forth he in the transient blaze
                        Of moonlight met his father face to face
                        Chopping a way athwart the baffling gale,
                        His hair and matted beard hoar with the rattling hail.
                    
                    
                        XIII.
                        His father?—nay, not this man—but some vain 
                        Hallucination his distempered brain
                        Had conjured up from darkness! Aye, some fell
                        And shocking mask that mimicked but too well
                        The venerable head! Oh, dread surmise!
                        He knew this form, though from the wandering eyes
                        A stranger stared, and verily knew not him.
                        Michael grasped at the wall; all seemed to turn and swim,
                    
                    
                    
                        XIV.
                        As, stumbling o’er the threshold, wild and worn,
                        His face bedaubed with soot, his garments torn,
                        The old man shook himself, then looked around,
                        And seeing the children curled up on the ground,
                        Went painfully down on one knee, and spread 
                        His horny palm towards the fire, that shed
                        An opal glow; then, dropping to the earth,
                        Laughed hoarsely to himself—“Aye, here’s a bonnie berth.
                    
                    
                        XV.
                        “A pretty night, sir, this! The moon’s at full,
                        That makes the winds go daft, a man from Mull
                        Told me in private! ’Tis a rare strathspey
                        The merry piper’s playing; but, I say,
                        A drop of whiskey, lad! I’ve come from far,
                        And yon—come closer, lad—yon’s bloody war.”
                        But his mad ramblings here were cut in twain
                        By madder hurly?burly of wind?smitten rain.
                    
                    
                    
                        XVI.
                        “Happen you haven’t heard puir Scotland, lad,
                        Is done for quite? Oh, Lord! the times are bad.
                        The French we used to drub now drub us, rob,
                        Kill, burn the very women!” And a sob
                        Throttled the old man’s utterance. “Oh, the shame!—
                        Our braw lads ran away—ran, sir, like tame,
                        Pale?livered sheep or rabbits in hot flight!
                        Had I not left some limbs in Spain, I’d make them
                            fight.
                    
                    
                        XVII.
                        “Aye, there’s the trouble! I’ve lived overmuch.
                        Earth’s sick of me,” and waving his old crutch
                        Above his head he muttered—“Fire and flood
                        Fight ’gainst our lads now they are made of wood,
                        And jointed cunningly to look like men
                        But bloodless. So they’re burning in the glen,
                        But I, ye ken, I’m of the Forty?Secon’!
                        I’ve served my country well as it has me, I’se reckon.”
                    
                    
                    
                        XVIII.
                        And therewith burst into a husky song
                        Of doughty Highland deeds, and, crazed with wrong,
                        Dozed off, nor knew how busy death was there,
                        Nor that as his new grandchild felt the air
                        And edge of the inhospitable night,
                        It shuddered back from life’s brink in affright,
                        Dragging its mother after—where she lay
                        Like to a gallant ship that dwindling drifts away,
                    
                    
                        XIX.
                        Merged in the dim obliterating line
                        Where heaven and ocean seem to intertwine
                        Their separate elements. Oh, crushing grief,
                        With Mary’s life Michael’s was fain to leave,
                        Who grasped his head with both his hands as though
                        To ward off the inevitable blow,
                        And keep his reeling sense and staggered brain
                        From breaking down beneath the accumulating pain,
                    
                    
                    
                        XX.
                        As had his wretched father’s! “Oh, my own
                        Puir love,” he cried, “oh, leave me not alone!
                        Would I could die with thee, or give my life
                        For thine, my little lass, my murdered wife!
                        The Lord have mercy on us!” and the strong
                        Man shuddered with his sobs, and fiercely clung
                        To her who sighed, “I’m going with my dears,
                        Watch thou the bairns that’s biding in this vale of tears.”
                    
                    
                        XXI.
                        Crushing her freezing hand in his, the flight
                        Of hours passed by unheeded, and the night,
                        With all her winds loud wailing, lapped him round,
                        And with her own his misery did confound.
                        Unhappy wretch, not even to mourn his dead
                        Might he watch unmolested by the bed
                        Of his life’s only treasure; yea, even then
                        On his great grief they burst, the great Lord’s hireling men.
                    
                    
                    
                        XXII.
                        Had they not scoured the country far and wide,
                        The forest maze and crevissed mountain?side,
                        The wave?bored cavern by the sounding shore, 
                        And haunts of sea?fowl, searching for a score
                        Or two of fugitive distracted men,
                        Whose hoary memories hugged their native glen,
                        As ivy climbing round some king of oaks
                        Cleaves to and breaks with it beneath the woodman’s strokes?
                    
                    
                        XXIII.
                        And by the faint light breaking through a chink
                        Of the grey ruin tottering on the brink
                        Of the bleached headland, lo! the men of law,
                        By tortuous tracks, had crept to where they saw
                        The treacherous gleam; and one among their band,
                        Even in the name of him who owned that land,
                        Bade them come on, nor waste their time, for, dem!
                        The tide was rising, nor would surely wait for them.
                    
                    
                    
                        XXIV.
                        Therewith they burnt the heather and the ferns
                        Gathered and slept on by those weary bairns;
                        Put out the fire, and tore the sail away,
                        Where, smooth as in her blooming maiden day—
                        Like some fair image on a sculptured tomb,
                        Within a hushed cathedral’s mystic gloom—
                        Recumbent with her infant at the breast,
                        The large?limbed mother lay in monumental rest.
                    
                    
                        XXV.
                        With painful steps slow winding round and round, 
                        Down curving tracks, they gained the burial?ground,
                        Where some few furlongs from the sea it lay
                        Upon a slope, acquainted with the spray;
                        And where behind it, far receding, rose
                        Cloud?shouldering pinnacles with maiden snows
                        Begirt, and luminous with evanescent
                        Gleams of the casual sun, storm?quenched and still renascent.
                    
                    
                    
                        XXVI.
                        Within the shadow of the hills o’erhead,
                        Within the sound of sea?waves lay the dead.
                        Here, thickly planted, leant the moss?grown stones,
                        And kept old names green over mouldering bones;
                        Or billowy ridges simply marked the spot
                        Where paupers rested whom even death forgot;
                        And crippled thorns and weeping birchen trees
                        Rustled in conclave of the flight of centuries.
                    
                    
                        
                            XXVII.
                        
                        Yea, here, even here, where their forefathers slept,
                        The children lifted up their voice and wept,
                        Lamenting as the Israelites of old
                        In Babylon. Here, among graves, behold
                        The desolate folk that congregating swell
                        To bid their native land a long farewell—
                        To bid their people’s dust a last good?bye,
                        Wetting with tears that earth where they may never lie.
                    
                    
                    
                        XXVIII.
                        But lo, all swerved aside, as through the throng
                        The little funeral party moved along,
                        All save three mourners, motionless and grey,
                        With covered faces crouching by the way;
                        For all knew Michael, honoured in the strath,
                        And in compassion mutely cleared a path,
                        As on his back he and another bore
                        Sail?shrouded on a plank the wife who was no more.
                    
                    
                        XXIX.
                        The staggering children, motherless and worn,
                        Followed, the least one of the eldest borne;
                        All meekly, by his little grandson led,
                        The old man shuffled after—his wild head
                        Nodding perpetually filled even with awe
                        The sorrowing folk he passed—but when he saw
                        So many of his people gathered there,
                        Returning reason broke on madness of despair.
                    
                    
                    
                        XXX.
                        And more and more he came to understand,
                        As by the new?dug grave he saw them stand,
                        In which—a shamrock?leaf of lives—were laid
                        Mother and new?born babe and winsome maid,
                        Even Ranza—Mary’s first?born—she whose brave
                        Heart forced her staggering footsteps to the grave,
                        Where she had dropped convulsed, her innocent life
                        As sorely done to death as by a butcher’s knife.
                    
                    
                        
                            XXXI.
                        
                        Compassion moved their bowels. Not an eye
                        But ran with tears. Michael’s alone were dry.
                        His heart had rained sorrow unspeakable 
                        On his wife’s body; now an empty well
                        Seemed drained to the last drop. But even before
                        The solemn prayers were ended, from the shore 
                        The factor’s gang came pouncing on their prey,
                        And hounded them with threats of handcuffs to the bay.
                    
                    
                    
                        XXXII.
                        For many there with sobs and bitter moans
                        Were clinging round the thorn trees and the stones:
                        More desperate than any, Rory clave,
                        Frenzied in turn and fawning, to the grave
                        Of the Mackinnons. “I shall stay,” he cried,
                        “With mine own people! Where my forebears died,
                        The good, God?fearing folk, years upon years,
                        There Rory too will die and mix his dust with theirs.”
                    
                    
                        XXXIII.
                        And then with humbly supplicating mien
                        Begged and entreated like a frightened wean—
                        “No, no, ye won’t begrudge a little span
                        Of ground wherein to bury an old man
                        Four score and over, who will not, for sure,
                        Long cumber earth that is not for the poor?”
                        And low he grovelled ’mid the tomb?stones there,
                        Brushing the long rank grass with his white floating hair
                    
                    
                    
                        XXXIV.
                        He might as well have pleaded with the sea
                        When, even as then, the surf rolls angrily,
                        Raging against its bourne. Deaf to his prayer,
                        They swore to hale him forward by the hair
                        If he demurred, who, fiercely struggling, shook
                        His old notched crutch; when Michael, with the look
                        Of a sick lion, groaned “Come, father, come,
                        Our country casts us forth, banished from hearth and home.
                    
                    
                        
                            XXXV.
                        
                        “God may have given the land to dress and keep
                        Unto our hands, but then his lordship’s sheep
                        Fetch more i’ the market. So with all our roots,
                        Like ill?weeds choking up the corn’s young shoots,
                        He plucks us from the soil. His sovereign word
                        Hath driven us hence. As with a flaming sword
                        Doth he not bar the entrance to our glen?
                        But, father, if we must, shall we not go like men?”
                    
                    
                    
                        XXXVI.
                        Then with his children Michael strode along,
                        His father followed through the elbowing throng
                        Of men and women, darting here and there
                        To snatch up children, or their household ware,
                        Splashing through sea pools, stumbling over blocks,
                        To where the boats banged sharply on the rocks,
                        Bobbing like corks, and bearing from the shore
                        Their freight of human souls towards the Koh?i?noor.
                    
                    
                        XXXVII.
                        But as the shout of sailors, as the stroke
                        And dip of oars upon his senses broke, 
                        The old man started back, and ’mid the loud
                        Din and confusion of the pushing crowd
                        He disappeared unnoticed, as the ship,
                        With many a lunge and shake and roll and dip,
                        Now weighed her anchors, and with bulging sail
                        Close?reefed, and creaking shrouds, drove on before the gale.
                    
                    
                    
                        
                            XXXVIII.
                        
                        And crowding on the decks, with hungry eyes
                        Straining towards the coast that flies and flies,
                        The crofters stand; and whether with tears or foam
                        The faces fastened on their dwindling home
                        Are wet, they know not, as the lean and yearn
                        Over the trickling bulwark by the stern
                        Toward each creek and headland of that shore,
                        The long?love lineaments they may see never more.
                    
                    
                        XXXIX.
                        Therewith it seemed as if their Scottish land
                        Bled for its children, yea, as though some hand—
                        Stretching from where on the horizon’s verge
                        The rayless sun hung on the reddening surge—
                        Incarnadined the sweep of perilous coast
                        And the embattled storm?clouds swarthy host,
                        With such wild hues of mingling blood and fire
                        As though the heavens themselves flashed in celestial ire.
                    
                    
                    
                        XL.
                        And in the kindling of that wrathful light
                        Their huts, yet flaming up from vale and height,
                        Grew pale as watch?fires in the glare of day;
                        White constellated isles leagues far away,
                        Headlands and reefs and paps, whose fretted stone
                        Breasted the sucking whirlpool’s clamorous moan,
                        Grew incandescent o’er the wind?flogged sea,
                        Scaled over with whitening scum as struck with leprosy.
                    
                    
                        XLI.
                        For as the winds blew up to hurricane,
                        Like a mere spark quenched on the curdled main
                        The ship was swept beyond the old man’s sight,
                        A dizzy watcher on that lonesome height,
                        Where, grappled to a fragment of the keep,
                        He hung and swung high o’er the raging deep
                        While sea?gulls buffeted about his locks,
                        Slipped shrieking into chinks and crannies of the rocks.
                    
                    
                    
                        XLII.
                        And now the waves that thundered on the shore
                        Him seemed the iron?throated cannon’s roar;
                        And now his heart, upstarting as from sleep,
                        Shuddered for those that sailed upon the deep,
                        As in brief flashes of his clouded mind
                        He knew himself sole crofter left behind
                        Of all his clan—crying now and again,
                        “She’s cleared the Sound of Sleat—safe on the open main.
                    
                    
                        XLIII.
                        “She’s safe now with the treacherous reefs behind!”
                        He shouted, as in answer to the wind
                        That had swung round like some infuriate host,
                        With all its blasts set full upon the coast;
                        And hounded back, the ship, as if at bay,
                        Came reeling through the twilight, thick, and grey
                        With rags of solid foam and shock of breaking 
                        Waters, beneath whose blows the very rocks were shaking.
                    
                    
                    
                        XLIV.
                        Yea, near and nearer to the deadly shore
                        She pitches helpless ’mid the bellowing roar
                        Of confluent breakers, as with sidelong keel,
                        Dragging her anchors, she doth plunge and reel,
                        Dashed forwards, then recoiling from the rocks,
                        Whose flinty ribs ring to the Atlantic shocks—
                        On, on, and ever on, till hurled and battered
                        Sheer on the rock she springs, and falls back wrecked and shattered.
                    
                    
                        XLV.
                        And through the smoke of waters and the clouds
                        Of driving foam, boats, rigging, masts, and shrouds
                        Whirled round and round; and then athwart the storm
                        The old man saw, or raving saw, the form
                        Of his own son, as with his children pressed 
                        Close to his heart, borne on the giddy crest
                        Of a sheer wall of wave, he rose and rose,
                        Then with the refluent surge rolled whelmed beneath its snows.
                    
                    
                    
                        XLVI.
                        And through the lurid dusk and mist of spray
                        That quenched the last spark of the smouldering day,
                        Faces of drowning men were seen to swim
                        Amid the vortex, or a hand or limb 
                        To push through whelming waters, or the scream
                        Wrung from a swimmer’s choking lips would seem
                        To be borne in upon the reeling brain
                        Of that old man, who swooned beneath the mortal strain.
                    
                    
                        XLVII.
                        Yea, thus once more upon the natal coast,
                        Which, living, those brave hearts had left and lost,
                        The pitying winds and waves drove back to land,
                        If but to drown them by the tempest’s hand,
                        The banished Highlanders. Safe in the deep,
                        With their own seas to rock their hearts to sleep,
                        The crofters lay: but faithful Rory gave
                        His body to the land that had begrudged a grave.
                    
                
            
        
        
        
            
                
                    NOTES.
                    
                        
                            
                            DUAN SECOND, STANZA XVII., PAGE 37.
                            
                                “OR quelle est la situation du Crofter de l’époque
                                    actuelle? Ce n’est plus qu’un fermier sans bail, dont la
                                    redevance est susceptible d’augmentations arbitraires, et
                                        qui peut etre renvoyé d’un pour à l’autre. D’année en
                                    année, les limites du sol in grat et épuisé que les grands
                                    propriétaires abandonment á la petite culture deviennent de plus
                                    en plus restreintes. L’‘eviction’ frappe sans pitié les humbles
                                    tenanciers dont les rangs se sont toujours éclaircis depuis un
                                    siécle dans les immenses domaines de la haute Ecosse. . . . 
                                “La population des Crofters, des Highlands et des Iles, si peu
                                    importante qu’elle soit, est une pépinière de bons travailleurs
                                    et de bons citoyens pour tout l’empire. Par sa vigoureuse
                                    constitution physique, son intelligence native et sa bonne
                                    éducation morale, elle est particulièrement propre au
                                    recrutement du peuple dans les grands centres industriels, qui,
                                    s’il n’était alimenté de la sorte par les sources saines des
                                    districts ruraux, ne manquerait pas de  dégénérer, sans l’influence des
                                    mauvais logements, d’occupations malsaines et d’habitudes
                                    énervantes. . . . 
                                “Mais ce c’est pas seulement au point de vue de ces avantages
                                    particulieres qui la population des Crofters a une utilité
                                    indiscutable. Elle constitue une base naturelle pour la défense
                                    navale du pays, défense qui ne peut être improvisée et dont
                                    l’importance, dans certaines circonstances, ne saurait être es
                                    timée trop haut. La population maritime des Highlands et des
                                    Iles fournit, en ce moment, 4431 hommes à la réserve de la
                                    marine royale, nombre équivalent aux équipages de sept navires
                                    de guerre cuirassé de 
                                        Ire
                                        première
                                     classe, et qui pourrait être encore beaucoup accru au
                                    moyeu d’avantages proportionés. 
                                “Il en est de même du recrutement de l’armée de terre. Les
                                    enrôlements deviennent de plus en plus rares dans les Highlands,
                                    l’émigration moissonant la partie la plus robuste et la plus
                                    determinée de la population rurale.”
                            
                            —“Les Highlands et la Question des Crofters,” 
                                    par 
                                    Le Cte Louis Lafond.
                                
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                    DUAN THIRD, STANZA XXVI., PAGE 55.
                                    
                                        “The tenants of Knoydart, like all other Highlanders, had
                                            suffered severely during and after the potato famine in
                                            1846 and 1847, and some of them got into arrear with a
                                            year’s and some with two years’ rent, but they were fast
                                            clearing it off. Mrs. Macdonell and her factor
                                            determined to evict every crofter on her property, to
                                            make room for sheep. In the spring of 1853 they were all
                                            served with summonses of removal, accompanied by a
                                            message that Sir John Macneil, Chairman of the Board of
                                            Supervision, had agreed to convey them Australia. Their
                                            feelings were not considered worthy of the slightest
                                            consideration. They were not even asked whether they
                                            would prefer to 
                                            follow their countrymen to America and Canada. They were
                                            to be treated as if they were nothing better than
                                            Africans, and the laws of their country on a level with
                                            those which regulated South American slavery. The
                                            people, however, had no alternative but to accept any
                                            offer made to them. They could not get an inch of land
                                            on any of the neighbouring estates, and any one who
                                            would give them a night’s shelter was threatened with
                                            eviction themselves. It was afterwards found not
                                            convenient to transport them to Australia, and it was
                                            then intimated to the poor creatures, as if they were
                                            nothing but common slaves, to be disposed of at will,
                                            that they would be taken to North America, and that a
                                            ship would be at Isle Orsay, in the Island of Skye, in a
                                            few days to receive them, and that they
                                                must go on board. The
                                                Sillery soon arrived, and Mrs.
                                            Macdonell and her factor came all the way from Edinburgh
                                            to see the people hounded across in boats, and put on
                                            board this ship, whether they would or not. An
                                            eye?witness who described the proceeding at the time, in
                                            a now rare pamphlet, and whom I met last year at Nova
                                            Scotia, characterises the scene as indescribable and
                                            heart?rending. The wail of the poor women and children
                                            as they were torn away from their homes would have
                                            melted a heart of stone! Some few families, principally
                                            cottars, refused to go, in spite of every influence
                                            brought to bear upon them, and the treatment they
                                            afterwards received was cruel beyond belief. The houses,
                                            not only of those who went, but of those who remained,
                                            were burnt and levelled to the ground. The Strath was
                                            dotted all over with black spots, showing where
                                            yesterday stood the habitations of men. The scarred,
                                            half?burnt wood—couples, rafters, and bars—were strewn
                                            about in every direction. Stooks of corn and plots of
                                            unlifted potatoes could be seen on all sides, but man
                                            was gone. No voice could be heard. Those who  refused to go aboard the
                                                Sillery were in hiding among the rocks
                                            and the caves, while their friends were packed off like
                                            so many African slaves to the Cuban market.”
                                    
                                    —“The Highland Clearances,” 
                                            by 
                                            Alexander Mackenzie
                                         (pp. 267, 268).
                                
                            
                            
                                DUAN SECOND, STANZA XXVI., PAGE 55.
                                
                                    “The clearing of Sutherland was a process of ruin so
                                        thoroughly disastrous that it might be deemed scarcely
                                        possible to render it more complete. Between the years 1811
                                        and 1820, 15,000 inhabitants of this northern district were
                                        ejected from their snug inland farms by means for which we
                                        would seek in vain a precedent, except, perhaps, in the
                                        history of the Irish massacre. A singularly well?conditioned
                                        and wholesome district of country has been converted into
                                        one wide ulcer of wretchedness and woe.”
                                
                                —Hugh Miller.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            
                            DUAN THIRD, STANZA XXVII., PAGE 55.
                            
                                
                                    
                                        “Yearly the Highlands have sent forth their thousands
                                            from their glens to follow the battle?flag of Britain
                                            wherever it flew. It was a Highland
                                                rearlorn hope that followed the broken
                                            wreck of Cumberland’s army after the disastrous day at
                                            Fontenoy, when more British soldiers lay dead upon the
                                            field than fell at Waterloo. It was another Highland
                                            regiment that scaled the rock?face over the St.
                                            Lawrence, and first formed a line in the September dawn
                                            on the level sward of Abraham. It was a Highland line
                                            that broke the power of the Mahratta hordes and gave
                                            Wellington his maiden victory at Assaye. Thirty?four
                                            battalions marched from these glens to fight in America,
                                            Germany, and India ere the eighteenth century had run
                                                 its course; and
                                            yet while abroad over the earth Highlanders were the
                                            first in assault and the last in retreat, their lowly
                                            homes in far?away glens were being dragged down, and the
                                            wail of women and the cry of children went out on the
                                            same breeze that bore too upon its wings the scent of
                                            heather, the freshness of gorse blossom, and the myriad
                                            sweets that made the lowly life of Scotland’s peasantry
                                            blest with health and happiness.”
                                    
                                    —“The Highland Clearances,” 
                                            by 
                                            Alexander Mackenzie
                                         (pages 320, 321).
                                
                                
                                    
                                        “Few Englishmen even now seem to be aware,
                                            notwithstanding all that has been written on the
                                            subject, that not very long ago, in many instances
                                            within the memory of living men, most of the Highland
                                            counties were the scene of evictions on a wholesale
                                            scale, compared with which the forced emigration of the
                                            Irish peasantry sinks into insignificance. Entire
                                            communities, from the patriarch of two generations down
                                            to the newly?born babe, were banished en bloc to Canada,
                                            and thrown there on their own resources to establish new
                                            homes or to starve. And although the people, except in a
                                            few cases, submitted to expatriation quietly if
                                            unwillingly, where they did manifest any reluctance to
                                            accept their fate, their houses were burned down over
                                            their heads, and they themselves were turned adrift on
                                            the bleak hill?sides, and on the wild and inhospitable
                                            sea?shores of that northern region, to seek subsistence
                                            as best they could. Until 1745, the year of Culloden,
                                            the clan system of land tenure prevailed in the
                                            Highlands, under which the ground belonged not to the
                                            chief alone, but to the community. A clansman could not
                                            be dispossessed of his holding by his chief. After 1745,
                                            however, the English system was introduced. The clans
                                            that had remained loyal to the Crown, as well as  those that had thrown
                                            in their lot with Prince Charles, had their lands
                                            practically confiscated. The Highland chiefs, in short,
                                            were assimilated in position to English landlords. They
                                            were by the central government invested with the
                                            fee?simple of the land which was once held by the laird
                                            and the clansmen in common, and so a great wrong,
                                            amounting to a national crime, was done to the Highland
                                            population.”
                                    
                                    —“Storm?Clouds in the Highlands” J. A.
                                            Cameron. “Nineteenth Century,” Sept. 1884.
                                
                                
                                    
                                        “I know a glen, now inhabited by two shepherds and two
                                            gamekeepers, which at one time sent out its thousand
                                            fighting men. And this is but one of many that might be
                                            cited to show how the Highlands have been depopulated.
                                            Loyal, peaceable, and high?spirited peasantry have been
                                            driven from their native land—as the Jews were expelled
                                            from Spain, or the Huguenots from France—to make room
                                            for grouse, sheep, and deer. A portly volume would be
                                            needed to contain the records of oppression and cruelty
                                            perpetrated by many landlords, who are a scourge to
                                            their unfortunate tenants, blighting their lives,
                                            poisoning their happiness, and robbing them of their
                                            improvements, filling their wretched homes with sorrow,
                                            and breaking their hearts with the weight of
                                            despair.”
                                    
                                    — Dr. D. G. F. Macdonald.
                                
                                
                                    
                                        “We come now to the third stage in the history of
                                            landlordism in the Highlands—the stage which I have
                                            distinguished as that of the Nineteenth Century
                                            Clearances. In consequence of the English clearances of
                                            the sixteenth century, the spread of commercial
                                            principles, and the dying out of the old notion  and fact of
                                            collective and limited ownership of land, the notion of
                                            individual and absolute ownership had got pretty well
                                            established in England by the middle of last century.
                                            So, after the Rebellion of 1745, the Highland chiefs
                                            being greatly impoverished, the devil came to them in
                                            three different shapes, one after another. First he
                                            appeared in a guise he very often assumes—the guise of a
                                            pressing creditor; then he came as a jolly sheep?farmer
                                            from the south, with lots of tin in his pockets; and,
                                            said the jolly sheep?farmer to the impecunious Highland
                                            chief: ‘Clear out these —— rascals, who call themselves
                                            your clansmen. Sheep will pay you better than men, and
                                            if you will let the hills and glens to me, I’ll double,
                                            triple, quadruple your rental.’ And last of all the
                                            devil came to the Highland chief in another shape he
                                            very often assumes—that of a sharp lawyer. The chiefs
                                            knew very well that they were but joint?owners with
                                            their clans of the land they occupied, and that crofter
                                            townships had rights of grazing on the hills sanctioned
                                            by immemorial custom; and they knew very well that,
                                            though many a chief’s estate had been forfeited by Acts
                                            of Attainder, by no Act of Parliament had their
                                            clansmen’s customary rights been forfeited. ‘But,’ said
                                            the devil in the shape of the sharp lawyer, ‘never mind
                                            that. In England they act now on the notion of absolute
                                            ownership, and we’ll just assume that your people are
                                            tenants?at?will, and that you can do what you like with
                                            them and theirs.’ And it was simply on this assumption,
                                            a pure legal fiction, directly in the teeth of all
                                            historical facts, that the Duke of Athole began the
                                            Highland Clearances in clearing Glen Tilt, just one
                                            hundred years ago (1784), and worthily have followed
                                            suit the Dukes of Sutherland and of Argyll.”
                                    
                                    —Article on “The Crofters’ Revolt,” 
                                            by 
                                            J. S. Stuart Glennie,
                                         in “Our Corner” (p. 202).
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        
                            
                            DUAN THIRD, STANZA XXVIII., PAGE 56.
                            
                                In his recent work on the Nationalisation of Land, Mr. Alfred
                                    Russell Wallace, in the chapter on “Landlordism in Scotland,”
                                    writes:—“The facts stated in this chapter will possess, I feel
                                    sure, for many Englishmen, an almost startling novelty; the tale
                                    of oppression and cruelty they reveal reads like one of those
                                    hideous stories peculiar to the dark ages, rather than a simple
                                    record of events happening upon our own land and within the
                                    memory of the present generation. For a parallel to this
                                    monstrous power of the land?owner, under which life and property
                                    are entirely at his mercy, we must go back to mediæval times, or
                                    to the days when serfdom not having been abolished, the Russian
                                    noble was armed with despotic authority; while the more pitiful
                                    results of this landlord tyranny, the wide devastation of
                                    cultivated lands, the heartless burning of houses, the reckless
                                    creation of pauperism and misery out of well?being and
                                    contentment, could only be expected under the rule of Turkish
                                    Sultans, or greedy and cruel Pashas. Yet these cruel deeds have
                                    been perpetrated in one of the most beautiful portions of our
                                    native land. They are not the work of uncultured barbarians or
                                    of fanatic Moslems, but of so?called civilised and Christian
                                    men; and—worst feature of all—they are not due to any
                                    high?handed exercise of power beyond the law, but are strictly
                                    legal, are in many cases the acts of the legislature itself. . .
                                    . The general results of the system of modern landlordism in
                                    Scotland are not less painful than the hardship and misery
                                    brought upon individual sufferers. The earlier improvers, who
                                    drove the peasants from their sheltered valleys to the exposed
                                    sea?coast, in order to make room for sheep?farmers, pleaded
                                    erroneously the public benefit as the justification of  their conduct. They
                                    maintained that more food and clothing would be produced by the
                                    new system, and that the people themselves would have the
                                    advantage of the produce of the sea as well as that of the land
                                    for their support. The result, however, proved them to be
                                    mistaken, for thenceforth the cry of Highland destitution began
                                    to be heard, culminating at intervals into actual famines, like
                                    that of 1836?37, when £70,000 were distributed to keep the
                                    Highlanders from death by starvation. . . Just as in Ireland,
                                    there was abundance of land capable of cultivation, but the
                                    people were driven to the coast and to the towns to make way for
                                    sheep, and cattle, and lowland farmers; and when the barren and
                                    inhospitable tracts allotted to them became overcrowded, they
                                    were told to emigrate.
                                “The actual effect of this system of eviction and emigration— of
                                    banishing the native of the soil and giving it to the stranger
                                    —is shown in the steady increase of poverty, indicated by the
                                    amount spent for the relief of the poor having increased from
                                    less than £300,000 in 1846 to more than £900,000 now; while in
                                    the same period the population has only increased from 2,770,000
                                    to 3,627,000, so that pauperism has grown about nine times
                                    faster than population. . . . 
                                “At the present time more than two million acres of Scottish soil
                                    are devoted to the preservation of deer alone—an area larger
                                    than the entire counties of Kent and Surrey combined. Glen Tilt
                                    Forest includes 100,000 acres; the Black Mount is sixty miles in
                                    circumference; and Ben Aulder Forest is fifteen miles long by
                                    seven broad. On many of these forests there is the finest
                                    pasture in Scotland, while the valleys would support a
                                    considerable population of small farmers; yet all this land is
                                    devoted to the sport of the wealthy, farms being destroyed,
                                    houses pulled down, and men, sheep, and cattle all banished to
                                         create a wilderness for
                                    the deer?stalkers! At the same time the whole people of England
                                    are shut out from many of the grandest and most interesting
                                    scenes of their native land, gamekeepers and watchers forbidding
                                    the tourist or naturalist to trespass on some of the wildest
                                    Scotch mountains.”
                                “The cruel practice of evicting the Highlanders to make room for
                                    sheep seems to be passing into the pernicious system of converting grazing lands into sporting
                                        grounds. Only the other day an extensive tract was
                                    cleared of 7000 sheep to add to the already wide forests of
                                    Glenstrathfarar and Culligran, the property of Lord Lovat, let
                                    to Mr. Winans of Brighton, at £7000 per annum. It is said that
                                    this nobleman, being desirous of securing more broad acres for
                                    his American “Sportsman!” who boasts of having, with the help of
                                    his two sons, brought down twenty?seven stags in about an hour
                                    last September, has leased the sheep?farm in question at a rent
                                    of £1000 a?year, and sub?let it to Mr. Winans for £2000, thus
                                    netting £1000 per annum by the transaction. I blush to think
                                    that a Scottish nobleman should lend himself to satisfying the
                                    insatiable desire of a foreign millionaire contractor to make a
                                    profit by a system which depopulates the Highlands, is a curse
                                    to Scotland, and, as you very properly observed, ‘a scandal to
                                    British legislation.’
                                “Sad it is to see the rights and welfare of the Highlanders
                                    pitilessly disregarded, and the beautiful hills, straths, and
                                    glens of Scotland immolated to the sporting snobbishness of
                                    greedy capitalists. The existence of ‘mammoth deer?forests’ is
                                    one of the gravest wrongs of the people, perpetrated under the
                                    mask of a false political economy, and I defy anyone to prove
                                    the utility of the cruel clearances that have so scandalised the
                                    Northern Highlands.
                                
                                “We may wander whither we will, the busy life that once enlivened
                                    these solitudes has departed. The cots are bare, and cold, and
                                    roofless; the patches which once grew crops of golden corn are
                                    now absorbed by sporting playgrounds; voices of men, women, and
                                    children no longer echo from the surrounding hills —nought but
                                    barren solitary pomp 
                                        ‘Where once a garden smiled.’
                                    
                                Family after family have been chased away, leaving us to
                                    saddening memories of the past.”
                            
                            —D. G. F. Macdonald, LL.D.—“The Echo,” 1878.
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            
                            DUAN THIRD, STANZA XLIV., PAGE 64.
                            
                                “In former removals the tenants had been allowed to carry away
                                    the timber of their old dwellings to erect houses on their new
                                    allotments, but now a more summary mode was adopted by setting
                                    fire to them. The able?bodied men were by this time away after
                                    the cattle, or otherwise engaged at a distance, so that the
                                    immediate sufferers by the general house?burning that now
                                    commenced were the aged and infirm, the women and children. . .
                                    . The devastators proceeded with the greatest celerity,
                                    demolishing all before them; and when they had overthrown all
                                    the houses in a large tract of country, they set fire to the
                                    wreck. Timber, furniture, and every other article that could not
                                    be instantly removed was consumed by fire, or otherwise utterly
                                    destroyed. The proceedings were carried on with the greatest
                                    rapidity and the most reckless cruelty. Some old men took to the
                                    woods and the rocks, wandering about in a state approaching to
                                    or of absolute insanity; and several of  them in this situation lived only a
                                    few days. Pregnant women were taken in premature labour, and
                                    several children did not long survive their sufferings. To those
                                    scenes I was an eye?witness, and am ready to substantiate the
                                    truth of my statements, not only by my own testimony, but by
                                    that of many others who were present at the time. In such a
                                    scene of devastation it is almost useless to particularise the
                                    cases of individuals: the suffering was great and universal. I
                                    shall, however, notice a very few of the extreme cases, of which
                                    I was myself an eye?witness. John Mackay’s wife, Ravigill, in
                                    attempting to pull down her house, in the absence of her
                                    husband, to preserve the timber, fell through the roof. She was
                                    in consequence taken in premature labour, and in that state was
                                    exposed to the open air and the view of all the bystanders.
                                    Donald Munro, Garvott, lying in a fever, was turned out of his
                                    house and exposed to the elements. Donald Macbeath, an infirm
                                    and bed?ridden old man, had the house unroofed over him, and was
                                    in that state exposed to the wind and rain until death put a
                                    period to his sufferings. I was present at the pulling down and
                                    burning of the house of William Chisholme, Badinloskin, in which
                                    was lying his wife’s mother, an old bedridden woman of nearly
                                    one hundred years of age, none of the family being present. . .
                                    . Fire was set to the house, and the blankets in which she was
                                    carried out were in flames before she could be got out. She was
                                    placed in a little shed, and it was with great difficulty they
                                    were prevented from firing it also. Within five days she was a
                                    corpse.”
                            
                            —“Gloomy Memories,” 
                                    by 
                                    Donald Macleod.
                                
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        
                            
                            DUAN THIRD, STANZA LXII., PAGE 73.
                            
                                
                                    
                                        “As Strathnaver, though from many causes the most widely
                                            bruited, was by no means a solitary instance of rash
                                            reform and harsh procedure, we must give another example
                                            of the same ruthless process of extermination which took
                                            place some forty years later in a quite different
                                            region. We allude to the inhabitants of the district of
                                            Knoydart, who were cleared out of their native seats in
                                            the year 1853, in a fashion for which the Strathnaver
                                            procedure seemed to have formed the model, and of which
                                            an account is given by Donald Ross, an eye?witness.
                                        “ ‘The scene presented at Knoydart was most
                                            heart?rending. As far as the eye could see the face of
                                            the strath had it black spots, where the houses of the
                                            crofters were either levelled or burnt. The ruins of
                                            these habitations of men, and the silence and solitude
                                            that prevailed, rendered it unnecessary for any tongue
                                            to tell me that here humanity was most cruelly
                                            sacrificed to the god of sheep?farming and expatriation.
                                            The blackened rafters lying scattered among the grass,
                                            the couple?trees cut through the middle and thrown away,
                                            the walls broken down, thatch and cabers mixed up
                                            together, and grass beginning to grow on the threshold
                                            and hearthstone, told a tale which required neither
                                            tongue nor pen to unfold. The scene was rendered more
                                            painful as the Strath was dotted with stacks of corn,
                                            large plots of potatoes, and with grass that could be
                                            easily mowed down by the scythe. But the voice of man
                                            was gone— he was not to be found.’”
                                    
                                    —“The Scottish Highlanders and the Land Laws,” 
                                            by 
                                            Professor Blackie.
                                        
                                
                                
                                
                                    
                                        “The extermination of the Highlanders has been carried on
                                            for many years as systematically and relentlessly as of
                                            the North American Indians. . . . Who can withhold
                                            sympathy, as whole families have turned to take a last
                                            look at the heavens red with their burning houses? The
                                            poor people shed no tears, for there was in their hearts
                                            that which stifled such signs of emotion; they were
                                            absorbed in despair. They were forced away from that
                                            which was near and dear to their hearts, and their
                                            patriotism was treated with contemptuous mockery.”
                                    
                                    
                                        —Dr. D. G. F. Macdonald.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            
                            DUAN THIRD, STANZA LXIII., PAGE 73.
                            
                                “Among the rest, a young man, Donald MacKay, of Grambmor, was
                                    ordered out of his parents’ house; he obeyed in a state of
                                    delirium, and (nearly naked) ran into some bushes adjoining,
                                    where he lay for a considerable time deprived of reason; the
                                    house was immediately in flames, and his effects burned. Robert
                                    MacKay, whose whole family were in the fever, or otherwise
                                    ailing, had to carry his two daughters on his back a distance of
                                    about twenty?five miles. . . . A number of the sick, who could
                                    not be carried away instantly, on account of their dangerous
                                    situation, were collected by their friends and placed in an
                                    uncomfortable hut, and there for a time left to their fate. The
                                    cries of these victims were heart?rending—exclaiming in their
                                    anguish, ‘Are you going to leave us to perish in the flames?’ .
                                    . . It may not be out of place here to mention generally that
                                    the clergy, factors, and magistrates were cool and apparently
                                    unconcerned spectators of the scenes I have been describing,
                                    which were indeed perpetrated under their  immediate authority. The splendid and
                                    comfortable mansions of these gentlemen were reddened with the
                                    glare of their neighbours’ flaming houses, without exciting any
                                    compassion for the sufferers; no spiritual, temporal, or medical
                                    aid was afforded them; and this time they were all driven away
                                    without being allowed the benefit of their out?going crops!
                                    Nothing but the sword was wanting to make the scene one of as
                                    great barbarity as the earth ever witnessed; and in my opinion,
                                    this would, in a majority of cases, have been mercy, by saving
                                    them from what they were afterwards doomed to endure. The clergy
                                    indeed, in their sermons, maintained that the whole was a
                                    merciful interposition of Providence to bring them to
                                    repentance, rather than to send them all to hell, as they so
                                    richly deserved.”
                            
                            —“The Highland Clearances,” 
                                    by 
                                    Alexander Mackenzie
                                 (p. 30).
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            
                            DUAN FOURTH, STANZA V., PAGE 76.
                            
                                One of the Royal Commissioners remarked—“It is said in reference
                                    to the people that ‘they were compelled to emigrate to America;
                                    some of them had been tied before our eyes; others hid
                                    themselves in caves and crevices for fear of being caught by
                                    authorised officers.’
                                “Q.—‘Do you recall that these people were caught and sent to
                                    America, just like an animal going to market?’
                                “A.—‘Just the same way. I saw a man who lay down on his face and
                                    knees on a little island to hide himself from the policeman,
                                        who had dogs searching for him in
                                    order to get him aboard the emigrant ship. . . . There was
                                    another case of a man named Angus Johnson. He had a dead child
                                    in the house, and his wife gave birth to three children, all of
                                    whom died. Not? withstanding
                                    this he was seized and tied on the pier at Loch Boisdale and
                                        kicked on board. The old priest
                                    interfered and said, ‘What are you doing to this man? let him
                                    alone, it is against the law!’ The wife of the man who was tied
                                    and put aboard afterwards went to the vessel. The four dead
                                    children would be buried by that time. These
                                        things happened in the years 1850?51. The people were
                                    hiding themselves in caves and dens for fear of being sent away
                                    from the island. . . . There were many such cases at the time.
                                    It was about forty years ago.”
                            
                            —“Crofters’ Evidence,” given before the Royal Commission.
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            
                            DUAN FOURTH, STANZA XXVII., PAGE 87.
                            
                                “All the Highlanders of an inland district in Sutherlandshire
                                    were ejected from their homes by the late Duke to make way for a
                                    few sheep?farmers. The poor people, a
                                    moral and religious race, bound to their rugged hills with a
                                    strength of attachment hardly equalled in any other country,
                                    could not be made to believe the summonses of removal real.
                                    Their fathers had lived and died among those very hills for
                                    thousands of years. They had spent their blood and had laid down
                                    their lives of old for the good Earls of Sutherland. Could it be
                                    possible that they were to be forced out of their own country?
                                    They at first thought of resistance, and had they carried the
                                    thought into action, it would have afforded perilous employment
                                    to a thousand armed men to have ejected every eight hundred of
                                    them; but they had read their New Testaments, and they knew that
                                    the Duke had become proprietor of the soil; some of their houses
                                    were actually fired over their heads, and yet there was no
                                    bloodshed. Convinced at 
                                    length that no other alternative remained for them, they
                                    gathered in a body in the churchyard of the district, to take
                                    leave of their country for ever, and of the dust of their
                                    fathers’ last. And there, seated among the graves, men and
                                    women, the old and the young, with one accord, and under the
                                    influence of one feeling, ‘lifted up their voices and wept.’
                                    This tract of the Highlands is now inhabited by sheep.”
                            
                            —Hugh Miller.
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            
                            DUAN FOURTH, STANZA XXXI., PAGE 89.
                            
                                “We, the undersigned, passengers per Admiral, from
                                    Stornoway, in the Highlands of Scotland, do solemnly depose to
                                    the following facts:—That Colonel Gordon is proprietor of
                                    estates in South Uist of Barra; that among many hundred tenants
                                    and cottars whom he has sent this season from his estates to
                                    Canada, he gave directions to his factor, Mr. Fleming, of Cluny
                                    Castle, Aberdeenshire, to ship on board of the above?named
                                    vessel a number of nearly four hundred and fifty of said tenants
                                    and cottars, from the estate in Barra; that accordingly, a great
                                    majority of these people, among whom were the undersigned,
                                    proceeded voluntarily to embark on board the
                                        Admiral at Loch Boisdale, on or about 11th
                                    August 1851; but that several of the people who were intended to
                                    be shipped for this port, Quebec, refused to proceed on board,
                                    and, in fact, absconded from their homes to avoid the
                                    embarkation. Whereupon Mr. Fleming gave orders to a policeman,
                                    who was accompanied by a ground?officer of the estate in Barra,
                                    and some constables, to pursue the people who had run away among
                                    the mountains; which they did, and succeeded in capturing about
                                    twenty from the mountains and islands in the neighborhood; but
                                    only  came with the officers
                                    on an attempt being made to handcuff them; and that some who ran
                                    away were not brought back, in consequence of which four
                                    families at least were divided, some having come in the ships to
                                    Quebec, while other members of the same families are left in the
                                    Highlands. . . .
                                “The undersigned finally declare that they are now landed in 
                                        Quebec
                                        Qeubec
                                     so destitute that, if immediate relief be not afforded
                                    them, and continued until they are settled in employment, they
                                    will be liable to perish with want. (Signed) HECTOR LAMONT, and seventy
                                        others.”
                            
                            —“The Highland Clearances,” 
                                    by 
                                    Alexander Mackenzie
                                 (pp. 257, 258).
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            
                            DUAN FOURTH, STANZA 
                                    XXXV.,
                                    XV.
                                 PAGE 91
                            
                                “In too many instances the Highlands have been drained, not of
                                    their superfluity of population, but of the whole mass of the
                                    inhabitants, dispossessed by an unrelenting avarice, which will
                                    be one day found to have been as short?sighted as it is unjust
                                    and selfish. Meantime, the Highlands may become the fairy?ground
                                    for romance and poetry, or the subject of experiment for the
                                    professors of speculation, political and economical. But if the
                                    hour of need should come—and it may not, perhaps be far
                                    distant—the pibroch may sound through the deserted region, but
                                    the summons will remain unanswered.”
                            
                            —Sir Walter Scott.
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            
                            DUAN FOURTH, STANZA XXXVIII., PAGE 93.
                            
                                “Men talk of the Sutherland clearings as if they stood alone
                                    amidst the atrocities of the system; but those who know fully
                                    the facts of the case can speak with as much truth of Ross?shire
                                         clearings, the
                                    Inverness?shire clearings, the Perthshire clearings, and, to
                                    some extent, the Argyleshire clearings. . . . Crossing to the
                                    south of the great glen, we may begin with Glencoe. How much of
                                    its romantic interest does the glen owe to its desolation? Let
                                    us remember, however, that the desolation, in a large part of
                                    it, is the result of the extrusion of its inhabitants. Travel
                                    eastward and the footprints of the destroyer cannot be lost
                                    sight of. Large tracts along the Spean and its tributaries are a
                                    wide waste. The southern bank of Loch Lochy is almost without
                                    inhabitants, though the symptoms of former occupancy are
                                    frequent. When we enter the country of the Frasers, the same
                                    spectacle presents itself—a desolate land. Trace the Beauly
                                    through all its upper reaches, and how many thousands upon
                                    thousands of acres, once peopled, are, as respects human beings,
                                    a wild wilderness. . . . Sutherland, with all its atrocities,
                                    affords but a fraction of the atrocities that have been
                                    perpetrated in following out the ejectment system of the
                                    Highlands. In truth, of the habitable portion of the whole
                                    country, but a small part is now really inhabited.
                                “Let us leave the past, however, and consider the present, and it
                                    is a melancholy reflection that the year 1849 has added its long
                                    list of Highland ejectments. While the law is banishing its tens
                                    for terms of seven or fourteen years, as the penalty of
                                    deep?dyed crimes, irresponsible and infatuated power is
                                    banishing its thousands for life for no crime whatever.”
                            
                            —Hugh Miller: “The Witness.”
                        
                    
                
            
            
                Printed byWALTER SCOTT,
                    Felling, Newcastle?on?Tyne.
            
        
    
