
     ----CITATION----
        Dixon, Ella Hepworth (1855-1932). The Story of a Modern Woman. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 365 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (02-November-1998).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7169
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                CHAPTER I
                AN END AND A BEGINNING
                GLARING spring sunshine and a piercing east wind rioted out of doors,
                    and here and there overflowing flower-baskets made startling patches of colour
                    against the vague blue-grey of the streets, but indoors, in the tall London
                    house, there was only a sickly, yellow twilight, for the orange-toned blinds
                    were scrupulously drawn down. There was awe in the passages, and hushed tones
                    even in the kitchen, as if the dead could hear! Some wreaths and crosses of
                    wax-like, exotic flowers lay on the hall-table, filling the passage with their
                    sensuous odour. Friends calling to inquire had left them there, but they had not
                    yet been taken up to that darkened room where a marble figure—a figure which was
                    strangely unlike Professor Erle—lay stretched, in an enduring silence, on the
                    bed.
                Downstairs, in the little study giving on a meagre London yard, a girl was
                    bending over a desk. ‘You will,
                        I know, be grieved to hear that my dear father passed suddenly away the
                        night before last,’ she wrote, while a great nerve in her forehead went
                    tick, tick, tick. The visitors who came all day long, leaving bits of
                    paste-board, spoke in low, inquisitive tones. When the bell rang, there were
                    veiled whispers at the hall-door. ‘So terrible—so sudden!’ Mary could hear them
                    inquire how she was keeping up? And Elizabeth's answer: ‘Miss Erle is as well as
                    could be expected.’ The trite, worn-out, foolish sentence almost made her laugh.
                    All the stock phrases of condolence, all the mental trappings of woe, seemed to
                    be ready-made for the ‘sad occasion,’ like the crape skirts and cloaks which had
                    been forwarded immediately from the mourning establishment in Regent Street.
                    ‘Yes, I am as well as could be expected,’ she thought, ‘and father is dead.
                    Father is dead.’
                And all the long afternoon she went on mechanically writing: ‘I
                        am sure you will be sorry when I tell you that my dear father—’ on paper
                    bordered with black an inch deep. How he would have disliked that foolish
                    ostentation of mourning; it was contrary to the spirit of his life. ‘To-morrow,’
                    she said to herself, ‘I must send for some note paper with a narrower edge.’
                    These letters were to be sent abroad. The
                    English newspapers had sufficiently announced the death, for Professor Erle was
                    perhaps the best-known man of science of the day.
                In the little back room they had to light the lamp early, there was so much to
                    do, so many details to arrange. The ceremony was to be as simple as might be;
                    above all, no paid priest would stand at the grave to give ‘hearty thanks’ that
                    the great thinker had been ‘delivered out of the miseries of this sinful world.’
                    The sinful world would have as its spokesman another famous professor, who had
                    asked to be allowed to say a few words. Then there were the newspapers. There
                    was the brisk, smartly-dressed young gentleman who came to do a leader for a
                    daily paper, and who proceeded to make a number of notes in shorthand, asking
                    innumerable questions as his omnivorous glance travelled rapidly round the
                    study. Another press-man—a small, apologetic man with greyish hair and a timid
                    cough—asked to see the house for the Weekly Planet.
                    He begged of Elizabeth on the hall steps, to tell him if the Professor had said
                    anything—anything particular, which would work up as a leader, just at the last?
                    ‘Oh! sir,’ said Elizabeth, ‘didn't you know? Master didn't say anything. He just
                    died in his sleep.’
                The daughter went about her tasks with a sense of
                    detachment, of intense aloofness. ‘I wonder if I really feel it?’ she thought,
                    ‘and why I have never cried? I should like to, but it is impossible; I shall
                    never, never cry again.’ It was as if Death, with his cruel, searing wings had
                    cauterised her very soul. Sometimes she pictured herself in her long crepe veil
                    at the funeral, and heard in imagination her friends murmuring pitying words, as
                    they all followed the coffin up the Highgate slope. Alison Ives, of course,
                    would be with her; she would stay by her, perhaps, and hold her hand. And
                    probably Vincent Hemming would be near. Yes, he too would be there.
                At dinner-time she had to sit down to table alone. She was hungry, and she ate,
                    hardly knowing what was on her plate. Nothing happened as it does in tales and
                    romances. In innumerable novels she had read how the heroine, in a house of
                    mourning, lies on the bed for days and steadily refuses to eat. As for Mary, a
                    demon of unrest possessed her during that horrible week, and it was as if she
                    could not eat nourishing food enough. She never stopped arranging, writing,
                    adding up accounts. It was useless to try and read. Did she but take up a book,
                    that dominant image in her mind—the image of a dear face turned to marble, with
                    the cold, triumphant smile of eternity on its
                    lips—shut out the sense of the words as her eyes travelled down the page.
                And the strange, unmistakable odour of death, mixed with the voluptuous scent of
                    waxen hot-house flowers, hung, night and day, about the staircase.
                Towards the end of the week, there was more noise and bustle, and at last had
                    come the morning when the house swarmed with undertakers' men, and Mary and her
                    young brother Jimmie, who had arrived from Winchester, sat with a few old
                    friends in the dining-room, waiting for the signal to go. There was the
                    shuffling of men's feet, as they staggered down the narrow London staircase with
                    their heavy burden, and then someone had made the girl swallow some sal
                    volatile, and she was pushed gently into the first mourning carriage, along with
                    her brother. They had made the boy drink some of the sal volatile too, and they
                    both felt strangely elated and highly strung. There were only those two now, and
                    Mary felt warmly drawn to Jimmie, as they sat side by side in their new black
                    clothes, the two chief personages in the ceremony of to-day. She even pretended
                    not to hear when, some gutter urchins making complicated cartwheels as their
                    contribution to the imposing procession, Jimmie, boy-like, gave way to a furtive
                    giggle.
                
                The drive to Highgate seemed interminable, but at last, when the long procession
                    crept slowly up the hill, it was in a kind of stupor that the girl saw and heard
                    what happened. There was, she remembered afterwards, a long line of people,
                    habited in black, awaiting them in silence inside the cemetery gate; a tolling
                    bell, neighing horses, and a penetrating scent of early lilac. Sunlight on the
                    paths, on the shining marble tombs, on the humble little mounds covered in
                    plush-like grass; then a moving mass of black, a yawning hole, the creaking of
                    ropes, and the mellifluous voice of the eminent professor, speaking his oration
                    over some upturned clay.
                ‘England—I may say the world—is mourning to day for her illustrious son’—how the
                    people pressed round the yawning gap, and pushed against the guelder rose-tree
                    overhead, so that the flowers fell in a minute white shower on to the oaken
                    coffin below—‘the world is mourning for her illustrious son. Not that those
                    tears will flow in vain, for they will moisten and fructify the precious tree of
                    Truth, a tree which is evermore putting forth fresh branches and new fruits
                    which are indispensable to the physical and moral evolution of humanity.’
                In a neighbouring laburnum-bush, a thrush was swelling its brown throat with a
                    joyous morning song. Athwart the pale sky
                    dappled with fleecy clouds, the lilac bushes were burgeoning with waxen, pinkish
                    blossoms. The very air throbbed with coming life.
                ‘Nature,’ continued the orator, in his measured, lecture-room tones, ‘Nature, who
                    works in inexorable ways, has taken to herself a life full of arduous toil, of
                    epoch-making achievement, of immeasurable possibilities, but to what end, and
                    for what purpose, is not given to us, who stand to-day with full hearts and
                    yearnings eye around his last resting-place, to know.’
                The sun was warm overhead, the scent of the pink may was strong in the nostrils;
                    a joyous twittering in an adjacent bush told of mating birds, of new life in the
                    nests, of Nature rioting in an insolent triumph.
                The orator paused for an instant, coughed, and felt in his breast pocket for his
                    notes. He was anxious, above all things, that the reporters should not print a
                    garbled version of his speech. Round the open grave pressed the devotees of
                    science, the followers of the religion of humanity; grey-skinned,
                    anxious-looking men and women, with lined foreheads and hair prematurely tinged
                    with grey; large heads with bulging foreheads, thin throats and sloping
                    shoulders; the women with nervous, 
                        over-
                        overworked
                     worked faces, the men with the
                    pathetic, unrestful features of those who are sustained in a life of self-denial
                    by their ethical sense alone. The ceremony of to-day was a great moral
                    demonstration. All classes who think were represented. Side by side stood a
                    white-haired Radical Countess in simple half-mourning and the spare form of a
                    Socialist working woman, with red, ungloved wrists and an inspired look on her
                    worn face. There, with her mother, Lady Jane, was Alison Ives. Lady Jane, who
                    was impressionable, was already exhibiting a pocket-handkerchief, and not far
                    off, Mary caught for one instant the brown, wistful eyes of Vincent Hemming.
                The sun grew hotter and hotter overhead. One or two of the mourners began putting
                    up umbrellas. The perfume of pink hawthorn became almost oppressive; an early
                    butterfly hovered over a baby's grave planted with sweet-smelling flowers. A
                    light breeze fluttered a laburnum-bush which hung over a neighbouring marble
                    tomb, a large, opulent, marble tomb, on which was cut in glittering gilt
                    letters: ‘Of such is the Kingdom of Heaven.’ And everywhere there was the
                    whiteness of graves. In ridges, in waves, in mounds, they stuck, tooth-like,
                    from the fecund earth. They shone, in gleaming, distant lines, up to the ridge
                    of the hill; they crowded in serried battalions,
                    down to the cemetery gates.
                The speaker was concluding his speech. ‘For though to isolated men,’ he said,
                    raising his voice so that all who were on the edge of the crowd should hear, ‘it
                    may be given here and there to scale the loftiest heights—ay, and ever new
                    height rising upon height in the great undiscovered country which we call the
                    realm of Science; there, too, the Finite touches the Infinite, and must
                    recognise what of tentativeness, what of inconclusiveness belongs to mere human
                    effort. Here, on a sudden, the dark, impenetrable curtain, which none may draw
                    aside, envelops us; here we know not whether all ends with this our last prison
                    house, or if to us may be opened out yet further cycles of aspiring
                    activity.’
                In the silence which followed there was heard one long, sweet, penetrating
                    bird-call.
                One of the chief mourners, the boy Jimmie, was sobbing loudly when the
                    professor's voice stopped, and with something gripping at her throat, the sister
                    led him away. She reproached herself with having brought him; the young, she
                    thought, should not know what sorrow is. The two spare, black-clad figures
                    stepped aside up the hill.
                Out yonder, at their feet, the dun-colour of the
                    buildings lost in the murkiness of the horizon line, London was spread out. Here
                    and there a dome, a spire loomed out of the dim bluish-grey panorama. A warm
                    haze hung over the great city; here and there a faint fringe of tree-tops told
                    of a placid park; now and again the shrill whistle of an engine, blown northward
                    by the wind, spoke of the bustle of journeys, of the turmoil of
                    railway-stations, of partings, of arrivals, of the change and travail of human
                    life, of the strangers who come, of the failures who must go.
                ‘Jim,’ said the girl suddenly, taking the boy by the arm, ‘there's London! We're
                    going to make it listen to us, you and I. We're not going to be afraid of
                    it—just because it's big, and brutal, and strong.’
                ‘N—no, dearest,’ said the boy, turning up a pretty, sensitive face, and a pink
                    nose all smeared with tears. ‘Of course not.’
                The black crowd yonder was swaying, separating, and disintegrating itself into
                    separate sable dots which were now seen descending the paths to the
                    cemetery-gate. And slowly, they too stepped down the gravel path.
                They came home to a house that was empty and orderly again; a house in which
                        his door stood open, the pale light of a spring afternoon
                    filling the desolate room. The blinds were
                    pulled up, and downstairs, in the kitchen, the servants had begun to talk and
                    laugh.
                Towards dusk, Jimmie got engrossed in a new book of adventures, but the girl,
                    restless still, wandered about the house in her black gown looking at everything
                    with strange eyes. Something terrible, unforeseen had happened which altered her
                    whole life. Towards the boy poring over the picture-book she felt much of a
                    mother's feelings; it behoved her to look after him now that his father was
                    gone. How long the time seemed—would the interminable day never end? There must
                    be lots for her to do. And casting about in her mind, she remembered that this
                    was the day on which she always gave out the groceries from her store cupboard;
                    there was the seamstress to pay, too, who was altering a black dress for her
                    up-stairs. So Mary dragged herself down to the kitchens and presently to the top
                    of the house. It would be nice of her, she thought, to go in and speak to the
                    woman who was sewing alone. It was sad for a young woman to be alone.
                The pale, pinkish light of a spring evening fell on a drab-complexioned girl,
                    whose fat hand moved, as she sewed, with the regularity of a machine. Now the
                    needle was thrust in the fold of black stuff, and the light fell on her ill-cut
                    nails; now the hand was aloft, in the semi-
                    obscurity; it was all tame, monotonous and regular as a clock. She was a docile,
                    humble, uncomplaining creature, who suggested inevitably some patient domestic
                    animal. Her features, rubbed out and effaced with generations of servility,
                    spoke of the small mendacities of the women of the lower classes, of the women
                    who live on ministering to the caprices of the well-to-do. To-day it would seem
                    she had assumed an appropriately dolorous expression.
                It sometimes soothed Mary to stitch. Taking up a strip of black merino, she began
                    to hem.
                The seamstress's hand continued to move with docile regularity, and, as Mary
                    looked at her, she was curiously reminded of many women she had seen: ladies,
                    mothers of large families, who sat and sewed with just such an expression of
                    unquestioning resignation. The clicking sound of the needle, the swish of the
                    drawn-out thread, the heavy breathing of the work-woman, all added to the
                    impression. Yes, they too were content to exist subserviently, depending always
                    on someone else, using the old feminine stratagems, the well-worn feminine
                    subterfuges, to gain their end. The woman who sews is eternally the same.
                The light began to fail now; very soon it would be dark. Mary threw down her
                        work with an impatient gesture, and, in the
                    grey twilight, an immense pity seized her for the patient figure bending, near
                    the window, over her foolish strips of flounces, the figure of the woman at her
                    monotonous toil.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER II
                A CHILD
                THE life of Mary Erle, like that of many another woman in the end of the
                    nineteenth century, had been more or less in the nature of an experiment. Born
                    too late for the simple days of the fifties, when all it behoved a young girl to
                    do was to mind her account-book, read her Tennyson, show a proper enthusiasm for
                    fancy-work stitches, and finally, with many blushes, accept the hand of the
                    first young man who desired to pay taxes and to fulfil the duties of a loyal
                    British subject (and the young man, it must be remembered, in the middle of this
                    century, actually did both), Mary was yet too soon for the time when parents
                    begin to take their responsibilities seriously, and when the girl is sometimes
                    as carefully prepared, as thoroughly equipped, as her brother for the fight of
                    life. A garden full of flowers, a house full of books, scraps of travel: these
                    things were her education. Out of the years she
                    could pick scenes and figures which typified her bringing-up.
                There was the plain, self-contained, and not too clean baby. A child who was
                    always grubbing in a garden, for it lived then in a house in St. John's Wood; a
                    child who was devoted to animals and insects, who was on intimate terms with the
                    many-legged wood-lice, which curled themselves up with all haste into complete
                    balls when she touched them; a child for whom snails and black-beetles had no
                    terrors, and who had much to say to the green, hairy caterpillars which hung
                    about the pear tree.
                There was a huge, fluffy, black cat, too, which represented, perhaps, the child's
                    primitive idea of a deity; for, though she adored it, the adoration was leavened
                    with a wholesome awe, a feeling which was not unconnected with certain unmerited
                    chastisements in the shape of scratches on her fat, bare legs. More often, to be
                    sure, the black cat was amiable, and even allowed itself to be carried up to
                    bed, with its hind legs straying out helplessly from under the child's arm, to
                    be presently concealed with all haste and caution under the white sheets and
                    blankets, from whence its sharp-pointed ears and wide black cheeks arose with
                    the most exquisitely mirth-provoking effect. With what inscrutable amber eyes did the black cat gaze for hours into
                    hers! how it imposed on her babyish imagination with its self-contained,
                    majestic manners, its air of detachment from the vain shows of the world! The
                    man with the kind smile, whom the child called ‘father,’ used to laugh at her
                    adoration, tell her she was a little Egyptian, and called the cat ‘Pasht.’ She
                    thought it a funny name, and not being altogether sure the black cat would
                    approve of it, generally addressed it as ‘you.’ And the cat would sit on long
                    summer afternoons on the grass under the pear tree, or on foggy autumn days on a
                    stool by the fireside, with paws neatly tucked away, its neck-ruff fluffed out,
                    purring benignly in response to her confidences. Indeed, in looking back, the
                    first tragedy of the child's life was the death of the black cat. It lay, one
                    sultry July day, under a laurel bush in the garden, with glazed eyes which gave
                    no signs of life. All morning and all afternoon the child sat there and fanned
                    the flies away, until her idol was stiff, and then a hole was hastily dug, and
                    the black cat was thrust out of sight. And never any more, in the warm summer
                    afternoons, did a soft, furry thing go sailing, tail in air, over the
                    close-cropped lawn; nor, on winter evenings, was a rhythmical purring to be
                    heard hard by the tall fender which guarded the
                    nursery fire. It was the first great void; the first heartache had come.
                A strange, indolent child, whose little hands were usually thrust beneath her
                    pinafore when anyone spoke to her; for surely she could not be always washing
                    herself, and to be on really intimate terms with insects and things, one cannot,
                    like grown-up people, be always thinking of one's nails. She usually, too,
                    concealed a small piece of putty about her person—an unpardonable sin, this, in
                    the eyes of mother and nurse—for putty is useful in a thousand ways, and is,
                    besides, so thrillingly delicious to feel surreptitiously in the recesses of
                    one's pocket. At this time the child held the whole race of dolls in high scorn.
                    They were a foolish, over-dressed, uninteresting tribe, with manifestly absurd
                    cheeks and eye-lashes, and with a simper which was as artificial as that of the
                    ladies in chignons and flounces who came to call at the house of an afternoon.
                    She, on her part, was all for the violent delights of miniature guns and real
                    gunpowder, the toilsome construction of fleets of wooden boats with the aid of a
                    blunt knife and a plank of wood; fleets which were set a-sail, with flying
                    pennants, on the cistern hard by the kitchen. There were boy neighbours who
                    aided and abetted her in these delights, and great naval battles would come
                        off between the Dutch and English fleets in
                    the kitchen cistern, in which sometimes Van Tromp, and sometimes Blake, emerged
                    victorious. The child, perhaps, did not take her patriotism seriously, as the
                    boys did; she was content to be Van Tromp, since they insisted on being Blake
                    and Monk. All that was of vital importance was that a fight of some sort should
                    come off.
                The mother sank early out of ken. First they said that she was poorly, and had
                    gone to Italy, and then they said that she was very ill, and afterwards that she
                    was in heaven; so that for a long time the child used to think vaguely, as she
                    sat in the summer-house with pursed-up lips and knitted brows, notching and
                    slicing at her ships, that Italy and heaven were perhaps the same place. Nurse
                    said that her mummy was an angel now; but, in all the picture-books, angels had
                    long, smooth hair, wore a kind of night-gown, and had enormous, folding wings.
                    The child could not picture her mother looking like that; she always remembered
                    her in many flounces, with a headache; and certainly, no, certainly, mummy never
                    had any wings out of her back.
                The child could recollect that, some little time before her mother went to Italy,
                    they took her upstairs one day and showed her a baby, with a red, crinkled face, lying in an over-trimmed
                    cradle. She did not care for babies, she would rather have had a nice, new,
                    fluffy kitten to replace the old black cat; but when they told her it was a
                    little brother, of course that altered matters. She was sorry her brother should
                    be so small, so fretful, and so red in the face; she would rather have had him
                    the same size as herself, so that he could have been Van Tromp for once, and she
                    the victorious Blake; but still, any sort or size of brother was better than
                    none. Although, in a year or so, the baby developed into something suspiciously
                    like a doll, with his fat, pink cheeks, his round, china-blue eyes, his dump of
                    a nose, and his entire absence of chin, still, he was far more entertaining than
                    that simpering and foolish tribe. Baby Jim's pink toes could kick; his little
                    fist, with the creases of fat at the wrist, could hit out; there were warlike
                    possibilities in him. In a word, Baby Jim was alive.
                At ten years old the girl began to have strange fits of vanity. There were little
                    shoes and frocks which she held in high favour, and others which nothing would
                    induce her to put on. To wear a pinafore, now, was a bitter humiliation, and
                    about this period she had the most definite theories about the dressing of hair.
                    The discussion on coiffures usually took place
                    in her bath, when a small, slippery person covered in soap-suds was to be heard
                    arguing with her nurse—an argument which was not unusually enforced by physical
                    violence—on the superior attractions of crimped to curled locks. At ten years
                    old—she was of opinion—a person was grown up, or at least as old as any one need
                    be. Why, big, tall men, with long beards and spectacles, who came to see her
                    father, would bend down and ask her gravely if she would be their little wife?
                    The child had been to more than one wedding, and she was aware that a wife was a
                    person who began by wearing a beautiful white satin train, with white flowers
                    and a veil; a person who was as imposing as that angel which nurse said her
                    mother had become, although she had not, of course, any wings. The child was not
                    sure whether she would best like to be a bride or an angel. The latter, it was
                    true, had the additional attraction of a golden halo; but she thought, probably,
                    that matters might be compromised, and that she could be a wife and have a halo,
                    too.
                The scene shifts now, for they had moved to another quarter of London, and the
                    change made a vast difference in the child's tastes and habits. There was no
                    cropped lawn now, where the pear tree made long shadows on summer afternoons,
                    where she had a personal interest in a plot of
                    ground of her own, and at least a bowing acquaintance with a whole host of fussy
                    bumble-bees, gay yellow butterflies, furry caterpillars, and lazy snails. There
                    was no summer-house in which ship-building could be carried on, and no
                    convenient cistern in which to sail one's fleet. The firing off of toy guns was
                    erased from the list of possible amusements. The house was a tall one, in a
                    street in town, and rural delights were represented by a square yard at the
                    back, which was haunted by stray, attenuated cats, and in which grew a solitary,
                    stunted sycamore.
                But, on the other hand, there was the new fascination of book-shelves, which ran
                    all over the new house, so that the child had but to mount a chair and reach out
                    a small hand, and, lo! romance and battles, laughter and tears, were all to be
                    enjoyed at her will. She had only to pick out her volume. It was a revelation in
                    the possibilities of life.
                Looking back now, it must be owned that she led an odd life. The man with the
                    kind smile was fond of his little daughter, but he was always at work, either at
                    experiments in his laboratory or bending over his desk in the study. Nothing
                    happened in the way of experience as it does to other children. One night her
                    father took her to the theatre for the first time. A famous actress, an old friend, was giving
                            Antony and Cleopatra, and they went first
                    behind the scenes. They walked across a bare, lofty, cavern-like place, with
                    dusty wooden boards, which sloped upwards, and the child was lifted up to peep
                    through a little hole in a red velvet curtain, and through it she saw a large
                    horse-shoe with quantities of people chattering as they waited. There was a
                    great deal of tawdry gilt, and many gas chandeliers, and the people, especially
                    at the top of the horseshoe, stamped with their feet and whistled. She did not
                    care much for the play, when they presently took their places in a box close to
                    the stage. There was a stout lady in long amber draperies, who kept throwing her
                    arms round a tired-looking man with a brown face and a suit of gilt armour. The
                    child was more amused when, between the acts, they went behind the scenes again
                    to see the famous actress in her dressing-room. Unfortunately, the stout lady
                    looked fatter than ever when seen close, but there were so many amusing things
                    about—a wig with long plaits, several serpent bracelets, a diadem, and a
                    beautiful golden girdle set with emeralds as big as pheasants' eggs. There was a
                    middle-aged gentleman, too, who sat at his ease in a shabby armchair, and drank
                    some pinkish, sparkling wine out of a low, round glass. Some one said that he was the editor of a great paper. The
                    child had never seen an editor; she was glad to see one, because she had always
                    thought they were quite different from other people. She liked to see him laugh,
                    and whisper in a familiar, condescending way to the stout lady, and yet keep on
                    drinking the pink wine out of the round glass.
                The child was incorrigibly idle. A mild, non-descript, unimaginative governess
                    and a fat, bald Frenchman who came once a week to instruct her in the Gallic
                    tongue did nothing to take away the inherent unattractiveness of ‘lessons.’ She
                    could read, and that was enough. The child read all day long. She lay concealed
                    among the footstools under the long dining-room table, poring over
                            The Ancient Mariner—her favourite poem—or
                    thrilled with the lurid emotion of Wuthering
                    Heights. A little later Villette
                    became her cherished book; a well-thumbed copy, long ago bereft of its cover,
                    stands on the girl's shelf to-day. Poor drab, patient, self-contained Miss Snow!
                    How the child's heart ached for you in your bare, dismal, Belgian schoolroom,
                    when Dr. John grew fickle; how she rejoiced when you found your ugly,
                    be-spectacled Fate; how choky she felt at the throat when she read those last
                    pessimistic, despairing words—words full of the sound and fury of angry seas and moaning winds. Why, poor
                    patient hypochondriacal soul, were you destined never to be happy? And all these
                    people were real to the child, much more real than the people she saw when she
                    went out to tea-parties in her best frock and sash. They were as real as the
                    little Tin Soldier and the little Sea-maiden of Hans Christian Andersen, types
                    of humanity which will last as long as there are tender little human hearts to
                    be touched.
                And, later on, there is the rather plain girl of fourteen, with somewhat
                    inscrutable eyes, and a seriousness which would have been portentous were it not
                    laughable. Gone, for the time being, were her fits of high spirits and her wild
                    gaiety; lost, the love of battle, and even the love of books about battles. The
                    girl had much to occupy her mind. She began to understand something of life now.
                    It was no longer a kind of coloured picture-book, made to catch the eye and
                    amuse an idle half-hour. The pictures meant a great deal more than that. There
                    were dreadful things, sad things, horrible things behind. Things that the girl
                    could only guess at, but which were there, she was sure, all the same. The
                    world, she could see from her books and newspapers, was full of injustice.
                There was the great wrong which had been done
                    some eighteen hundred years ago, when the most beautiful life that was ever
                    lived had come to a shameful end. The girl was always reading that moving story;
                    the Old Testament, with its revengeful, Jewish Deity, did not appeal to her at
                    all. The poignant tragedy enacted at Jerusalem ate into her heart, and this
                    child of fourteen felt herself burdened with the reproach which that senseless
                    crime has left on humanity for well-nigh two thousand years.
                Yes, those were serious days. Once in her teens, she had to make up her mind on
                    many subjects. There were the questions of marriage, of maternity, of education.
                    The girl had learned French by now, and the chance fingering of a small,
                    last-century volume made her approach those supremely feminine subjects under
                    the somewhat insecure guidance of Jean Jacques Rousseau. She imbibed, indeed,
                    the Swiss philosopher's diatribes on virtue before she had comprehended what
                    civilised mankind stigmatises as vice. Emile: ou, de
                            l'Education was wearily, conscientiously toiled through
                    for the sake of posterity. Le Contrat Social was a
                    work which it behoved a person of fourteen—a person who wished to understand the
                    scheme of civilisation—to know.
                Strange, anxious days, passed in the twilight of ignorance, groping among the
                    vain shadows with which man in his wisdom has
                    elected to surround the future mothers of the race. It was not, of course, till
                    years afterwards, that Mary became conscious of the fine irony of the fact that
                    man—the superior intelligence—should take his future companion, shut her within
                    four walls, fill that dimly-lighted interior with images of facts and emotions
                    which do not exist, and then, pushing her suddenly into the blinding glare of
                    real life, should be amazed when he finds that his exquisite care of her ethical
                    sense has stultified her brain.
                The girl was reading David Copperfield when she
                    descended one day, with knitted brows, to the room where her governess was
                    laboriously copying in water-colours a lithographed bunch of roses.
                ‘What is a lost woman really, Miss Brown?’ demanded the girl, with her tense
                    look. ‘Dickens says that little Em'ly is a lost woman, because she goes to Italy
                    with that Mr. Steerforth. Was Mr. Steerforth a lost man, too?’
            
            
            
                CHAPTER III
                A YOUNG GIRL
                LOOKING back, across the vague, misty years, the egotism, the ferocious
                    egotism, of the young girl appears well-nigh incredible. At eighteen, she, with
                    her fluffy hair and her white shoulders, is the most important thing in her
                    little world. There is the day she first discovers she has a throat with fine
                    lines; the secret delight with which she hears an artist tell her that the
                    movements of her body are graceful. Does black, or blue, or white become her
                    best? It is never too late, and she is never too tired, when she comes back from
                    a ball, to light all the candles again in her bedroom and examine herself
                    critically, anxiously, in the glass. There is a little pink spot of excitement
                    on each cheek; her hair is ruffled. She looks pretty, she has been happy
                    to-night. Some one—no matter who—has told her she looks charming.
                There is the desire of the young girl to coquet, to play with, to torture, when
                    she first learns the all-powerful influence
                    which she possesses by the primitive fact of her sex. With all the arrogance
                    which belongs to personal purity, she stands on her little pedestal and looks
                    down on mankind with a somewhat condescending smile. She is—and she feels it
                    instinctively—a thing apart, a kind of forced plant, a product of civilisation.
                    At present the ball-room, with its artificial atmosphere, its fleeting
                    devotions, its graceful mockery of real life, is the scene of her little
                    triumphs. The eyes of all men—young and old alike—follow the girl approvingly,
                    wistfully, as she ascends the staircase, her full heart beating against her slim
                    satin bodice, the clear, peachlike cheeks pink with excitement, her swimming
                    eyes raised invitingly to some favourite partner, or dropped as she passes a man
                    she wishes to avoid. At the door her slender white arms and shoulders disappear
                    in a circle of black coats; the programme is scrawled all over; she notes
                    exultantly that one or two men are scowling at each other, and that she has no
                    dance to give some one who has joined the group too late. It is the woman's
                    first taste of power.
                There is, too, the joie de vivre, the delight
                    of the young animal at play, the imperious will-to-live of a being in perfect
                    health. The girl must dance till her feet ache horribly, the room swings round, and the pink dawn comes creeping in
                    behind the drawn blinds; but still she must go on till that music stops, the
                    swaying, voluptuous heartrending music which draws her feet round and round. The
                    violins, with their navrant tones, the human,
                    dolorous strains of the cornets, the brilliant, metallic, artificial sounds of
                    the piano, all act powerfully on the young girl's nervous system. Then come the
                    stifling crowded supper-room, with its indigestible food and sweet champagne;
                    the young men who move nearer and look at her with strange eyes, after they have
                    eaten and drunk. It is all new and intoxicating, and a little frightening; but
                    it is life, or the nearest approach to it that a young girl, gently nurtured and
                    carefully looked after, can possibly know.
                Admiration, at this period, is the very breath of her nostrils. No matter from
                    whom, no matter when or where. A smile, seen like a flash, on a face in a
                    passing hansom; the ill-bred pertinacity of a raised lorgnette at a theatre; the
                    dubious gaze of men about town, leaning against ball-room doors—nothing offends
                    her. It is simply incense burnt at the feet of her youth.
                But at last, out of the vague crowd of black coats and wistful eyes, the first
                    lover emerges. It is a little difficult to recall his face, after all these years. Looking back dispassionately, he seems
                    to have been very like all the others, only that he made her suffer, while the
                    others, perhaps, suffered a little for her sake. There were the horrible
                    half-hours of torture when she waited, in some crowded party, for his sleek head
                    and his somewhat foolish smile to appear in the door-way; the blank, empty days
                    when there was no letter; the shamefully sweet, the incredible surrender to the
                    first tentative embrace, a surrender which tortured her night and day, and then
                    the joy, the supreme joy, of knowing, for certain, that he cared.
                It is all a little remote, now, but the beautiful secret was hugged like a very
                    treasure. He was young, he was poor, there were difficulties of every sort to
                    contend with, and finally there was a parting, one warm, windy night in
                    November. It was a Sunday, about seven o'clock, and through the window, which
                    was ajar in the drawing-room where they stood, came the sound of a tolling bell.
                    It was only a neighbouring church summoning pious folk to evening service, but
                    it sounded like a knell. It was a well-nigh hopeless affair, and all that they
                    could do was to promise to write to each other. For some weeks the girl watched,
                    in the column of the shipping intelligence, the eastward progress of a
                    Peninsular and Oriental steamer on its way to
                    Australia, and after that, on the mornings when the mail came in, she would
                    stand with her heart in her mouth, and her hand on the knob of the dining-room
                    door, afraid to go in and find that no foreign envelope lay beside her plate.
                    For some months, to be sure, the letters nearly always lay there, but gradually
                    they got rarer and rarer, and one day she told herself finally that she need not
                    expect any more. Torture is not made more bearable by being slowly applied.
                    During the months in which those letters from Australia grew rarer, the girl
                    understood for the first time the helplessness, the intolerable burden which
                    society has laid on her sex. All things must be endured with a polite smile. Had
                    she been a boy, she was aware that she might have made an effort to break the
                    maddening silence; have stifled her sorrow with dissipation, with travel or hard
                    work. As it was, the trivial round of civilised feminine existence made her, in
                    those days, almost an automaton. One looks back, with wonder, at the courage of
                    the girl. To find a smile with which to face her father at the dinner table; to
                    take a sisterly interest in Jim's exploits at school; to show due surprise each
                    time her brother announced the arrival of a new batch of rabbits; and a
                    partisan's joy in the licking which Smith minor had administered to Jones major—these were the immediate duties which lay
                    before her.
                Not feeling strong just now, the girl gave up going to balls; they reminded her
                    too much of that episode which she wished to forget; and now the prospect that
                    opened out before her was a vista of years full of scientific soirées where one walked down long sparsely-peopled
                    rooms and looked through microscopes at things which wriggled and squirmed.
                    Sometimes the girl felt strangely like one of those much-observed bacilli; the
                    daughter of a scientist, she knew well enough that her little troubles had about
                    as much importance as theirs in relation to the vast universe. Yet there she
                    was, fixed down under her little glass case, while the world kept a coldly
                    observant eye upon her. Ah, the torture of the young—the young who are always
                    unhappy, and whose little lives are continually coming to a full stop, with
                    chapters that cease bluntly, brutally, without reason and without
                    explanation.
                That she was thrown aside, dropped overboard, as it were, in the terrific battle
                    for existence mattered nothing to the young girl. Having no self-pity, she never
                    questioned the justice of the blow that had been dealt her. Afterwards, in the
                    years to come, she might wonder why she should have been made to suffer so? But not then. One's first sorrow is a very
                    precious thing. In those far-off days, she would gladly have sacrificed
                    everything—even life itself—for the young man who forgot to write, and whose
                    face, with its rather foolish smile, it is so difficult to recall exactly as it
                    was.
                About this time, when she began to work at the Central London School of Art,
                    father and daughter became great friends. On the days when he went to lecture at
                    the London University, she would either walk with him, or go to fetch him on
                    those afternoons when he was coming straight home to tea instead of making his
                    way to the Athenæum Club. With her chin in the air, looking straight before her,
                    she stepped along, in the half-dark, with a royal scorn for the well-dressed
                    loafers who find their pleasure in accosting ladies in the street. She was
                    twenty-one, and a woman now; it behoved her to be able to take care of herself.
                    And after all, they were perhaps more easily disposed of than some of the men
                    who took her in to dinner, men who had tired eyes and a dubious smile, and who
                    were fond of starting doubtful topics with a side-long, tentative glance.
                She works now regularly with her father, acting as his amanuensis when his eyes
                    are tired, or verifying facts in the library. Jimmie, the little brother, has grown into a boy with
                    charming, insinuating manners, who is curiously un-British in his
                    demonstrativeness. His sister, he says, is the most charming of girls. He
                    announces that he is always going to live with her. Nothing shall separate them.
                    His whole life, he declares, with his arms round her neck, is to be devoted to
                    his dearest Mary.
                How well she remembered the last time she and her father had gone out together.
                    She could recollect driving in a hansom, and their talk on the way to the
                    Foreign Office. His last book but one had but lately appeared, and was now being
                    scratched and bespluttered assiduously by clerical pens, while it was received
                    with rapture by the large class which like their advanced thinking done for
                    them, and turned out in fat print with ample margins once in every third year.
                    All the way up the crowded staircase there is a great display of teeth, of
                    tiaras, of stars and orders, of shining bald heads. The wife of the Foreign
                    Secretary is delighted to see the professor, though no one in that eminently
                    aristocratic gathering ‘insists’ on anything, and most people are content to
                    exchange two fingers, two words, and two smiles, one at greeting and one at
                    passing on. His Excellency the German Ambassador detains the father and
                    daughter, for he has just heard that the
                    Emperor intends to bestow on the English professor the Order of the Crown, for
                    his distinguished services to the progress of modern thought. The two move on,
                    and are caught up in other small circles, where they hear agreeable
                    commonplaces, in an atmosphere where everything is taken for granted, and in
                    which smooth phrases and smooth faces abound, faces which have inherited, for
                    hundreds of years, the art of expressing nothing in a polite way. It is all
                    suave and artificial and decorous. No epigrams make themselves conspicuous in
                    the well-bred chatter, and one great lady, exhibiting a superfluity of bare
                    flesh, raises a tortoise-shell lorgnette when some one—who can it be?—is heard
                    to laugh outright. A famous guardsman has several charming things to say, and
                    the girl finds her chatter received with flattering attention by the handsome
                    man with the Garter, who is at once a Viceroy and the most suave of diplomats.
                    Surely, when one looks back, the girl's eyes are bright again that night; her
                    blond hair is full of electricity; she has regained, though with a curious
                    little composed manner, something of the roundness, the joyousness, of nineteen.
                    Life is a compromise, and must not be taken too seriously. It 
                        is
                        it
                     absurd to be much in earnest, and it bores people. So much the girl
                    has learned.
                
                For the next two or three days, the two hardly left the study, except for a short
                    walk after dinner, for the professor's book absorbed him. Not feeling himself,
                    he was anxious—terribly anxious—to get it done. After this they would go abroad,
                    and get a long holiday. He wanted to go to Zermatt. At the Riffel Alp he would
                    get the air and exercise he craved. No, he was not quite himself; he felt
                    over-strained, nervous, he had a continual headache. It was, perhaps, he said, a
                    touch of bile.
                But one evening, just before dinner, the book was actually done. Bending over the
                    girl at the desk, he kissed her crisp hair, and wrote at the bottom of the page,
                    in his own cramped hand, these words—‘The End.’
                And so it was, indeed.
                The next morning, when the servant went up to call him, the professor had been
                    dead some hours. The doctors spoke of a clot of blood in the brain, of
                    over-work, and over-strain.
                And in the tall, darkened house in Harley Street, the child who had played, the
                    girl who had danced, died too.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER IV
                ALISON
                AS sometimes happens with busy people in London, the Erles had hundreds
                    of acquaintances and but few intimate friends. A friendship is costly, in point
                    of time, and Mary found, when one chapter of her life was done that spring
                    morning, that there were two people only that she must imperatively see: a man
                    and a woman—Vincent Hemming and Alison Ives. How their features stood out among
                    the crowd of vague faces, which belonged to that other life! Alison Ives
                    especially, who always looked like a Reynolds, with her handsome, clever face,
                    her superb air, and her huge hats tied under the chin. With that grave sweetness
                    which endears to us the Siddons in the National Gallery, she yet had the look of
                    a thinker, modernised by a slightly bored expression, and a little distinguished
                    way which at once made other women in her vicinity look dowdy or vulgar. Her
                    clothes always seemed to suit her, as its
                    feathers do a bird. There are women who look like an édition de luxe of a poor book; Alison Ives suggested that of a
                    classic.
                It had been her habit for a couple of years past to sit at the feet of Professor
                    Erle; she constantly announced, indeed, that he was the only man she wanted to
                    marry, only that he was firm, and would not permit it. Besides, it was no good
                    trying to compete with her mother, Lady Jane, who was sixty-five—and
                    irresistible. Women of sixty-five, she said, were nowadays the only people who
                    inspired a great passion. She supposed her turn would come—a quarter of a
                    century hence. But, all the same, the daughter was much admired in the world;
                    but the world, as understood by her mother, Lady Jane, by no means entirely
                    satisfied this eminently modern young woman. It was whispered that she had
                    serious views, though it was certain that she was pretty enough to please a
                    Prime Minister, and clever enough to entertain a guardsman, if she found herself
                    next to either at dinner. Alison did not mind which, she said; in fact, after a
                    long day in the East-end, when she was tired, she rather preferred the
                    guardsman, who would be content to talk of polo ponies, whereas, when a young
                    woman is put next to a Premier, it behoves her to look, at any rate, very
                    brilliant indeed. Though she never smoked, was
                    ignorant of billiard cues and guns, and hated playing the man, Alison had been
                    heard to murmur something like an oath. It was a habit which she had picked up
                    in Paris, when she was working in a sculptor's studio; and she always declared
                    that dame and sapristi, being in a foreign tongue, were notoriously less
                    efficacious, and by inference more pardonable, than swearing in the vernacular.
                    For the rest, with the best heart in the world, she had a somewhat caustic
                    tongue, could interpret Chopin like an artist, and always had her hair
                    exquisitely dressed.
                What attracted people at once was her womanliness, her lack of snobbishness, her
                    real desire to be in sympathy with her own sex. Like all exceptional people, she
                    had her moods, and sometimes for months together she was heard of only as
                    forming one of a party in this or that great country house, while at other times
                    she would come to town and study fitfully, or devote herself to the task of
                    helping young girls. Once, in the middle of the season, she took a lodging in a
                    by-street in the Mile End Road, but she only stayed seven weeks, and, when she
                    appeared again, the expression on her face was sadder than before. ‘Of course,
                    one ought to know what it is like,’ she said, when Mary asked her
                    why she had left so soon. ‘It's an experience—but a terrible one. It's not only the drunkenness, the
                    down-at-heel vice, the astounding absence of any thrift or forethought, and the
                    incredible repetition of one solitary adjective; but it seems to me that, when
                    one or two of us go and live down there, we absolutely do no permanent good at
                    all. The thing will be to bring the East-end here—one by one, of course, just as
                    we go there.’
                Alison kept her word. This spring had found her ensconced in a workman's flat in
                    the Mayfair district, with one small servant, whom she had befriended in
                    Whitechapel.
                ‘But it's as much for myself as her,’ explained Alison, laughing. She hated to be
                    thought philanthropic. ‘All we women are so incredibly dependent on other
                    people. It's absurd that we don't know how to do anything useful. I shall keep
                    my flat, and go to it now and again, when I am tired of shooting-parties. It
                    will be a little home for my East-end girls, whom I intend to train. I daresay I
                    shall be disappointed in them, but that's inevitable with all experiments.
                    Anyway, it will probably do me more good than it will them. The only real
                    slavery nowadays is the slavery of luxury. We are all getting so pampered that
                    we can't exist without it. People do the most incredible things. I have known a
                    woman stay with a husband whom she loathed, and whom it was an outrage to live with, simply because she couldn't do
                    her own hair. I'm going to get our cook at Ives Court to teach me how to broil a
                    mutton-chop, though, I daresay, she's too grand for that; and I shall go and
                    watch the laundry-maid at her work.’
                ‘And your hands, you lunatic?’ Mary had exclaimed. ‘I think I see you with red
                    knuckles.’
                ‘Oh,’ said Alison, laughing, ‘I shall tell that little manicure just out of Bond
                    Street to come twice a week. There's that new stuff, “Eau des Orchidées”; it's
                    wonderful. Don't imagine I'm going to give up the only old-fashioned quality we
                    modern women have got—our vanity. It's the only thing that makes us still
                    bearable.’
                This was the young woman who was shown into the study by Elizabeth one morning a
                    few days after the funeral at Highgate. Mary was bending over a desk, busy with
                    her father's proofs, when she came in. The elder girl's beautiful brown eyes
                    were suspiciously shiny; it had evidently cost her an effort to come into the
                    study which she knew so well. The two girls wrung each other's hands silently.
                    But after the first kiss, in which she said everything that she dared not put in
                    words, Alison, with her ready tact, began talking business at once.
                The younger girl announced her plans frankly.
                    There was just enough money for her to live meagrely, quietly on for the next
                    few years, while she tried her luck at art. Mary had always meant to paint some
                    day, when her time should be at her own disposal. To paint was a long-cherished
                    ambition, mused over on drowsy afternoons in the reading-room of the British
                    Museum, nursed during the days when she had remained bending over a desk in her
                    father's study, patiently inscribing what the professor dictated as he walked up
                    and down the little room. As for Jimmie, he was to remain at Winchester, and, if
                    he could succeed in winning a scholarship, was to go to Oxford, as the father
                    had wished. By living carefully this could be managed.
                ‘No woman ever made a great artist yet,’ said Alison, after a pause, ‘but, if you
                    don't mind being third-rate, of course go in and try. I suppose it'll mean South
                    Kensington, the Royal Academy, and then—portraits of babies in pastel or cottage
                    gardens for the rest of your life.’
                ‘Oh, don't.’
                ‘Never mind, my dear girl. You must work at something. Try the British Art
                    School. Has Vincent Hemming been?’ she added, rather inconsequently.
                ‘Oh, yes, he has called. Two or three times, Elizabeth says, but I haven't seen
                    any one,’ said Mary, remembering, with a little
                    shudder, the inquisitive voices at the door.
                ‘I don't see why,’ said Alison, thoughtfully, ‘you shouldn't take a flat in the
                    same building with me. Of course, there are little drawbacks. The ladies use a
                    limited, if somewhat virulent vocabulary, and now and again one has to step over
                    an elderly gentleman who lives just below, and who comes home tired, and
                    sometimes goes to sleep on the stairs. But one gets accustomed to that.’
                ‘I think on the whole,’ said Mary, smiling, ‘I'll take some rooms near. There are
                    some furnished rooms in Bulstrode Street, kept by an old servant of ours. I've
                    got to think of Jimmie and his holidays, you see.’
                ‘Where is the boy, by the by?’
                ‘Oh, poor Jimmie, I let him go—the day—the day after. He was very good; he said
                    that nothing would induce him to leave me, and sat, poor boy, for at least an
                    hour with his arms round my neck, crying. Then another note came from Smith
                    minor—the boy who keeps so many lop-eared rabbits, you remember—asking him to go
                    and spend a week with them in the country.’
                ‘And then?’ said Alison quickly. ‘Ah! I can see Jimmie saying he shouldn't dream
                    of going, and then wandering round the room, asking if you were not perhaps going out of town yourself. And
                    about seven o'clock an epistle was indited to say that he would be very pleased
                    to go, and the next morning Jimmie went off in a four-wheel cab, looking quite
                    cheerful.’
                Mary smiled in spite of herself.
                ‘Poor boy,’ she said softly, in an extenuating voice, ‘he can't bear anything
                    sad!’
                ‘So much,’ said Alison after a pause, ‘for brothers.’
                ‘We've got,’ answered the other, ‘fortunately or unfortunately, to depend upon
                    ourselves in all the crises of life. I've got lots to do; lawyers to see, these
                    proofs to correct, and to make arrangements for my own future.’
                ‘Only that? She refuses herself nothing,’ said Alison. ‘I am modestly contented
                    with arranging for Evelina's future. Evelina is my last girl. As for my own, I
                    leave it to Providence.’
                ‘You can afford to,’ replied Mary, ‘but we have it on the authority of a proverb
                    that Heaven is not above taking assistance from mortals in this respect.’
                ‘My dear, you should never say cynical things; you'll find you will so often be
                    obliged to do them! But I want to tell you about Evelina,’ she went on
                    nervously, afraid every minute that one or
                    other of them might break down. ‘Evelina is my new girl,’ she continued,
                    settling down on the fender-stool. ‘Her name is actually Evelina—isn't it
                    preposterous? I should like to call her Polly, only I don't believe in changing
                    poor people's names to suit your own fancy, as if they were cats or canaries.
                    Well, Evelina's baby—’
                ‘Oh, there is a baby?’
                ‘Why, of course. A poor waxen little thing that screams all day long. I've put it
                    out to nurse in a crêche that a friend of mine
                    has started in Kentish Town. And now I'm trying to cultivate a sense of humour
                    in Evelina.’
                ‘It will be difficult, won't it?’ said Mary, trying hard to take an interest.
                ‘Never mind. It's what women ought to cultivate above all other things,
                    especially the poorer classes. With a keen sense of the ridiculous, they would
                    never fall in love at all; and as to improvident marriages, they simply wouldn't
                    exist. If you could see the baby's father!—a pudding-faced boy, who helps in a
                    tiny cheesemonger's shop down there. She “walked out” with him for two years. He
                    is now nearly nineteen. It is all very well to smile, but it is terrible—for the
                    woman. In the evening, when she has done her work, she lights the lamp in my
                    little sitting-room (
                        every-
                        everything
                     thing is quite simple, you know; only
                    I've got a few books, and the tiny Corot from my den at Ives Court, and the
                    Rossetti drawings), and then I read aloud while she knits. I read comic
                    things—Dickens, Mark Twain, and so on; and when the poor girl laughs, I feel
                    that I have scored. She isn't much more than a child, you know, and she has such
                    a good heart. I think she likes to talk to me: she tells me her little
                    story.’
                ‘A story,’ repeated Mary; ‘she has a story, then?’
                ‘Oh! a common one enough down there,’ answered Alison. ‘She drifted into the
                    East-end from Essex, about three years ago, and became a drudge-of-all-work in a
                    family of ten, in the Mile End Road. Her master was pleased to make love to her
                    when his wife and the eight children had gone for the day to South-end; Evelina
                    ran out of the house, leaving her box behind, and never dared to go back. Mary,
                    these London idylls are not pretty. She is, however, beginning to show a faint
                    sense of the ridiculous. I believe I shall make a sensible person of
                    Evelina.’
                Mary raised her head, for she had been listening mechanically, with her eyes
                    fixed on the ink-spots on her father's desk, the desk on which his hand had so
                    often rested. But it was impossible not to feel
                    cheered by Alison's whimsical yet energetic personality. She looked so bright,
                    so alert, so capable, as she stood there, in her pretty black gown and her
                    rakish hat, a little askew with the wind.
                ‘By the by, did I tell you the adventure I had on my visit to the Blaythewaites?
                    My dear, it was only by the intervention of Providence that I didn't have to
                    dine the first night in my tailor-gown. Of course, I went down third-class—’
                ‘That's because you are saving for Evelina's baby, I suppose,’ interrupted
                    Mary.
                ‘And so,’ went on Alison, taking no notice of the interruption, ‘the footman
                    never thought of looking for me there. They all drove off without me, and my
                    basket trunk, with my favourite white gown in it, got taken off with some other
                    people to another place about five miles off. However, it was got back in time,
                    and when I told my little story at dinner to Sir Horace, he was immensely
                    amused, though I'm sure Lady Blaythewaite thought I was graduating for a lunatic
                    asylum. People who don't know me well always do.’
                ‘Did you tell Sir Horace Blaythewaite about the workman's flat—and Evelina?’ said
                    Mary, laughing. Alison was already at the door, tying on her hat firmly.
                
                ‘You know I never talk about that,’ she said, flushing up. ‘Why it would look
                    like a pose—as if I thought myself better than other people. And I couldn't bear
                    any one to say that I had ‘taken up slumming.’ You know how I detest the whole
                    attitude of the upper and middle classes towards the poor. Lifting the lids of
                    people's saucepans and routing under their beds for fluff is simply
                    impertinence. Why, district visiting is nothing less than a gross breach of
                    manners—a little worse than electioneering, if that's possible. I'm just going
                    up,’ she said, giving a rakish twist to her velvet hat-strings, ‘to the crêche in Kentish Town to see Evelina's baby. I'm
                    going on the top of one of those charming trams. I told Worth when I was in
                    Paris that I always went on the tops of omnibuses, and he designed me this
                    little frock on purpose. It's pretty, isn't it, but a little too ingénue for me? It smacks of the Comédie Française.
                    I think I see Reichemberg in it,’ said Alison doubtfully, smoothing down the
                    folds of her loose bodice. ‘Now, you've got to promise to come and dine with me
                    and mother in Portman Square; we shall have the house to ourselves. Good-bye.
                    Eight o'clock.’
                ‘Nonsense! It's very sweet of you, but I can't possibly go,’ cried Mary down the
                    passage.
                
                In another instant she was gone, and the house seemed blank and empty again. But
                    trying not to think of her sorrow, Mary went steadily on with the proofs.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER V
                MARY'S LOVER
                MR. VINCENT HEMMING was looked upon by the professor, by Jimmie, by the
                    servants, and indeed by everyone except Mary herself, as her especial property.
                    He was, in fact, one of the few intimate visitors who came when he liked to the
                    Harley Street house. He had become part of her grown-up life, having first
                    appeared about a year after that Sunday night parting, when the world had seemed
                    very empty indeed. His little air of deference was eminently attractive to a
                    young girl, who fancied that she had done for ever with emotion. As for Jimmie,
                    he adored Vincent, though Jimmie generally adored new acquaintances—for the
                    space of about six weeks.
                Hemming's father had been a politician of some note, who had twice held office,
                    and Vincent had pre-eminently the manners of one burdened with state secrets.
                    His little reserves, a certain air of caution, of discretion, all belonged to
                    those early experiences when his father was
                    alive. To be sure, he had charming, rather old-fashioned manners, affected the
                    speech of the mid-century, and was carried away by few of the modern crazes or
                    fads. A well-shaped forehead—of the showily intellectual type—wavy hair, already
                    threaded with grey, a short, pointed beard, and eyes of an innocent, penetrating
                    brown, made up a personality which appealed at once to dowagers and young girls.
                    At table he looked very well, although his shoulders were inclined to slope
                    slightly, but when he stood up you saw that he had not the eminently British
                    habit of planting himself firmly, squarely, and self-assertively on his feet.
                    For the rest, he had a small property which brought him in about three hundred a
                    year, and though already grey, was still spoken of by his elders as a ‘promising
                    young man.’
                Though a Conservative, he believed in the higher education, even the
                    enfranchisement of women. It was a subject on which he was persuasively
                    eloquent. It was quite pretty, ladies always thought, to hear him talk of his
                    dreams, his sacrifices, and an occasional article which he succeeded in getting
                    inserted on his favourite subject in the Fortnightly
                    or the Contemporary was laboriously written in
                    studied English, and with a persuasive pen. He had a great deal to say on the
                    future of the race, and on the necessity of
                    maintaining a high ethical standard, and he always waxed exceedingly wroth over
                    the literary excesses of MM. Zola and de Goncourt, and thanked heaven, so to
                    speak, that those eminent pioneers of Realism did not belong to the Anglo-Saxon
                    family. ‘We are passing,’ he announced one day, when he was calling on Lady Jane
                    Ives, ‘through one of the reconstructive periods of the world's history. Art,
                    under such conditions, is necessarily tentative, rarely complete.’
                ‘Yes,’ said Alison, dryly, ‘and building, you see, always makes a mess. The
                    smoking lime, the dirty puddles,the unpleasant odour of baking bricks are
                    inevitable.’ But Lady Jane, who had knocked about the most depraved society in
                    Europe for half a century, and who clung with amiable tenacity to her illusions,
                    always agreed with Mr. Hemming. Lady Jane, who was a judge of such things, said
                    that he was one of the few modern young men whom she could endure in her
                    drawing-room for more than twenty minutes.
                A day or two after Alison's visit, Mr. Vincent Hemming appeared, looking
                    charmingly correct and sympathetic, in a black-and-white spotted tie and a band
                    round his hat. He had gauged to a nicety his degree of intimacy with the great
                    man who was gone.
                
                It was a day when outlines were clearly cut, and colours glaring; everything
                    looked crisp, hard, decided, inevitable. The rooms wore the unsettled, desolate
                    look of a house that is soon to be empty. One or two favourite pictures had
                    already been lifted down from off the wall, leaving a patch of clean paper
                    visible; one bookcase was already a dark void, the volumes were piled on the
                    floor ready to be packed. Most of the library was to be sold, and Mary now stood
                    on a ladder, running a regretful eye along the next case of beloved volumes,
                    when Vincent Hemming came in.
                ‘My poor child,’ he said, in his sympathetic voice, ‘why wouldn't you let me see
                    you before?’
                ‘I've been very busy,’ said Mary, getting down from the ladder, and putting out a
                    dusty hand. ‘There was so much to do. Father's lawyer has been here constantly,
                    and everybody has been very kind. I had to think of everything, you see—of
                    Jimmie, and all that.’
                ‘What are you going to do?’ he asked, after a little pause, during which his eye
                    had travelled round the dismantled walls, and the cavernous shelves of the once
                    cosy drawing-room.
                ‘Of course, we can't stay in this big house,’ she explained; ‘I've taken some
                    lodgings in Bulstrode Street, near the Central London School of Art.’
                
                ‘By yourself, my dear child?’
                ‘I suppose so, for the present,’ she answered, knocking two volumes together in a
                    determined manner to get the dust from the edges. Her mouth had got those little
                    obstinate tucks at the corners now, which he knew so well. ‘Aunt Julia—mother's
                    sister, you know—has written offering me a home. She is very High Church, and
                    lives at Bournemouth in one of those dreadful little gabled villas.’
                ‘And, of course, you prefer an artistic life in London,’ he was relieved,
                    distinctly relieved, when Mary announced her intention of adopting art as a
                    profession. Painting, especially in watercolours, he considered an eminently
                    lady-like occupation; it was, indeed, associated in his imagination with certain
                    drawings of Welsh mountains and torrents, executed by his mother with the prim
                        technique of the forties, which now
                    adorned his chambers in the Temple.
                ‘That's so brave—and so like you,’ said Vincent, as his eye wandered round the
                    room again. The tone of his voice was vague: he was evidently considering
                    something which took up all his attention.
                ‘It isn't brave at all,’ she said, simply. ‘It's an absolute physical necessity.
                    I should go mad if I sat down to think. It all seems so cruel, so terrible, so
                    unjust. He was only fifty-three, and there was
                    so much work for him still to do. He used to say that an ordinary long life
                    could not suffice—’
                ‘The death of Professor Erle is a national disaster,’ replied Vincent, ‘and is
                    not to be gauged all at once.’
                There was a long silence, during which all that this loss meant to each of these
                    two passed through their minds. They had moved to the window now, through which
                    a light breeze fluttered in. The tall, brownish-grey houses were spruced up for
                    the season with clean blinds and boxes of daisies and spiraea. A couple of
                    blonde girls in pink cotton made a gay splash of colour against the grey-toned
                    street as they walked buoyantly along. A hansom was drawing up at the pale-green
                    door yonder, and out of it sprang a young man in a glossy hat, a gardenia, and
                    patent-leather boots. Just opposite some workmen were stretching a red-and-white
                    awning for an evening party. The outward aspect of affairs was unchanged.
                ‘I feel,’ said Mary, gazing at the striped awning, which the men had now
                    succeeded in propping, ‘as if I had done with that world for
                    always. And now I want to do something, to live. Oh, Mr. Hemming,’ she added,
                    with one of her comic little frowns, ‘I don't want to be a “young lady”! Do you
                    really think that, because I am a woman, I must
                    sit by, and fold my hands, and wait?’
                ‘You are very modern in one thing, dear child; you have the modern craze for
                    work.’
                ‘It probably saves some of us from the mad-house.’
                ‘Ah, but you will marry one of these days, and then where will your work be?’
                    replied Vincent, smiling a little fatuously.
                Mary turned from the window abruptly.
                ‘Let us go carefully over the books,’ she said, with a brusqueness which she
                    sometimes affected. ‘Help me to choose,’ she continued, mounting the steps, and
                    beginning to hand down the volumes. ‘I want that Lamb and the Heine, the Goethe
                    and the Jean Paul Richter. Here, catch the Phædo, and put it with the Marcus Aurelius and that little
                    Epictetus over there on the cabinet.’
                ‘My poor child, you will no doubt require such consolation as the philosophers
                    can afford,’ said Vincent Hemming, in his old-fashioned way.
                ‘Here's Pippa Passes, and Musset's
                            Proverbes, and my special Shelley, and the
                            Anatomy of Melancholy. Yes, yes, all
                    those.’
                Some colour had come into the girl's cheeks as she sat on the top of the ladder
                    and dropped the books into his arms, covering him, as she did so, with a light
                    cloud of dust; but she looked pathetically
                    delicate in her close-fitting, sombre gown, which threw up the pallor of her
                    throat, the mauvish tinge of her lips, the dark rings round her eyes. Vincent
                    Hemming, whatever he had meant to do when he entered the dismantled
                    drawing-room, was fairly carried away by the spectacle of Mary's childish face
                    and busy, nervous little hands re-arranging her destiny in her own decided
                    fashion. It touched him, and, at the same time, irritated him, producing the
                    feeling that, as a man, he was bound to interfere.
                One step nearer now, and the course of a lifetime would be changed.
                ‘Mary, dear child,’ he said suddenly, in an imploring tone, while they were both
                    startled by the emotion in his voice, ‘do you think you could—care for me a
                    little?’
                The girl turned to look at him. His penetrating brown eyes were actually suffused
                    with tears; a nerve was ticking visibly in his forehead. It all seemed far-off,
                    improbable, impossible. Vincent Hemming, her old friend, had turned into this
                    imploring, visibly-suffering man. Mary burst into an hysterical little
                    laugh.
                ‘But you—you don't care for me, do you? You're only saying that because you think
                    I'm lonely—that I want some one to take care of me—aren't you?’ she asked
                    hurriedly. ‘Why, we've known each other so
                    long,’ she added, seeing that he was still silent. He had flipped the dust from
                    his face and coat with easy tact, and stood, smiling up at her, close by her
                    side.
                ‘I don't know,’ continued the girl, doubtfully, slowly twisting one of the
                    buttons of his frock coat. She had come down several steps of the ladder, so
                    that her eyes were on a level with his. The nerve no longer ticked in his
                    forehead; the muscles of his mouth relaxed; there was already something of
                    triumph in his look.
                ‘Don't smile, dear,’ she said, very gravely. ‘I can't bear you to look at me like
                    that. Do you—really—want me?’
                ‘Dear heart, I have always wanted you,’ said a changed, thick voice in her ear,
                    and in the next instant two arms encircled her, and two lips were crushed
                    against hers. For the first minute a consciousness of sorrow overwhelmed her.
                    For good, for evil, the girl knew that she was giving herself up to this man,
                    whom a minute ago she had looked upon with the cool eye and discriminating
                    judgment of mere friendship. All the tragic potentialities of a woman's life,
                    the uncertainties and sorrows of her who gives her happiness into another's
                    keeping, flashed before her.... Why, why must it be? Only a minute ago, and she
                    had been ready to face the world alone, to be herself, to express herself, to work out her own destiny. And now it was
                    all changed. Something held her against her will. This man—a minute ago her
                    friend, and now, in this infinitesimal atom of time, her lover, who stood before
                    her with red, flushed face, and looked with longing eyes into hers: this man had
                    already communicated his trouble to her. His hands, which held her two wrists as
                    they stood there gazing at each other, felt like links of iron.
                In that one supreme moment, Mary Erle tasted for the first time, in all its
                    intensity, the helplessness of woman, the inborn feeling of subjection to a
                    stronger will, inherited through generations of submissive feminine
                    intelligences.
                ‘I can't, oh, I can't,’ she said. ‘Don't ask me now. You don't—you can't
                    understand how I feel. And I don't know you like that. I've always thought of
                    you as a friend,’ she protested, drawing herself away, with her fine smile.
                    ‘Besides, it's dreadful to be—love-making—when father—’
                ‘I don't ask you to think of it just now, my darling,’ said Vincent. ‘I—I—the
                    fact is, I have much to do, and many plans ahead myself. I—I haven't the right
                    to tie you definitely, Mary. I am thinking seriously of taking that trip to
                    India and Australia, of which I told you.’
                ‘You're—going—away?’ she asked, blankly. Already
                    the inexorable chain which nature forges bound her to this man.
                ‘Yes, to collect materials for my book on the Woman Question. I might come home
                    by way of Canada, and if so, the thing would take me the best part of a year.
                    Then, when I come home, I shall have my book to do; and I hope, if the present
                    Government keeps in, to get a legal appointment. So you see, little one, you
                    will have ample time to think about it, as well as to perfect your artistic
                    studies,’ he added, with a touch of his old-fashioned manner. He was sitting
                    down on the sofa now, and looked already his quiet, well-bred, rather
                    deferential self again.
                An hour later Vincent got up, reluctantly, to go. ‘I have to dine with a member
                    of the Government at a quarter to eight,’ he explained, ‘My new article must be
                    finished before I start, and I'm thinking of starting quite soon.’
                ‘Are you?’ said Mary, sorrowfully, turning to the window and gazing down the
                    street. It was all so different now. She belonged to this man who was going
                    away. Why had he spoken? Could it not be as it was? ... A few yards off a
                    piano-organ was rattling out a cheap German valse. The sun was off the houses
                    now, and the street wore its familiar, dingy look.
                
                Vincent searched among the disarranged furniture and the piles of books for his
                    hat. Mary followed him to the door. She wanted to say something nice, but she
                    could think of nothing. Just at parting, he took her in his arms again, and
                    brushed her downcast lids with his lips. During that embrace, she thought of
                    nothing, except that she was sure that she had always cared for him. ‘Dear,’ he
                    muttered, ‘I'm afraid that if I go away I shall leave the best part of myself
                    with you.’
                When he had gone, she stooped about again among the rows of books, sorting them
                    mechanically, without thinking much what she was doing. Little clouds of dust
                    rose in the twilight room. The tall, grim houses shut out all that remained of a
                    daffodil-tinted sky. Tired and unstrung, the girl threw herself on to the sofa
                    where she and Vincent Hemming had sat, and presently, to her surprise, she was
                    conscious that two large, salt tears were coursing their way down her dusty
                    cheeks.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER VI
                THE CENTRAL LONDON SCHOOL OF ART
                THE Central London School of Art, though backed by all the majesty of
                    State support, was, at the first blush, a somewhat disillusionising place to the
                    youthful aspirant for fame. To the over-nice, to be sure, it lacked an art
                    ‘atmosphere,’ except such a material one as is generated by ancient paint-tubes,
                    oily rags, furtively-munched sandwiches, and the presence of a preponderance of
                    people to whom the daily tub is possibly not of vital importance. Outwardly, the
                    Art School was only No. 55, in a dreary by-street near Portland Road; a small
                    thoroughfare of sinister aspect, in which the houses seemed to be frowning at
                    each other's dubious appearance. The white blinds—now grey with age and
                    dirt—seemed always drawn; no one ever seemed to emerge from those faded,
                    bespattered front doors. It was a dreary, mysterious street, of which, when Mary
                    thought of it, she invariably saw the two ends swallowed up in a blurred,
                    yellowish fog.
                
                Inside, this temple of the fine arts consisted of one long room with a glass
                    roof, divided, towards one end, by a serge curtain of bronze green. The walls
                    were tinted a dingy-olive colour, throwing up the plaster Laocoon, the torso of
                    the Theseus, the Apollo Belvedere, with its slightly supercilious air, the
                    frowning Moses of Michael Angelo, and the simpering Clytie, with startling
                    distinctness. A small écorché stood on a
                    shelf, and all around, looking like the frozen remains of some monster
                    operating-theatre, were eerie-looking arms, legs, feet, and hands cut off above
                    the wrist.
                Here, too, were the candidates for the Royal Academy, all laboriously stippling
                    their drawings of the Laocoon with twists of bread and stumps; a process in
                    which they had been engaged for some six months past; while in the other
                    division of the room was posed a child dressed like an Italian contadina,
                    surrounded by easels on every side. It was the afternoon on which the model sat.
                    Painting from the life was carried on at the Central London School of Art on but
                    two afternoons a week, being looked upon as a kind of frivolous extra which
                    should not be allowed to occupy the mind of the serious student to the detriment
                    of the stippled Laocoon.
                It was a raw December day, but inside the fumes
                    of a charcoal stove made the students' heads feel queer. They were an
                    odd-looking collection of people, who were gathered there that winter afternoon
                    in the falling light. The young women were of the lower middle class; daughters
                    of retail shopkeepers, who dressed in gowns of orange or green serge, cut rather
                    low about the throat, and beautified by strings of amber or Venetian glass
                    beads, while some, on gala days, had been known to appear adorned with
                    iridescent beetles' wings, a trimming understood to be dear to the female artist
                    the wide world over. And though perhaps their hair left, like their speech,
                    something to be desired, on the whole the girls were less objectionable than the
                    boy-students, whose linen was not irreproachable, and who used to disappear in
                    groups of five or six during the sitting, to return to their places presently,
                    bringing with them a suspicious odour of bitter beer and inexpensive tobacco. An
                    English art school has none of the boisterous, contagious hilarity of a French
                        atelier. Decent silence reigned, broken
                    only by the hoarse, repressed chuckles of a couple of boys as they exchanged a
                    whispered witticism, or the rare, high-pitched, but almost inaudible titter of a
                    student with ringlets as she bent over her easel.
                Mary Erle, with her neat hair and her well made
                    black dress, looked like a little princess as she sat, with a slight frown and
                    tight-shut lips, among the outer ring of easels. She wore the same expression as
                    of old, in the summerhouse in St. John's Wood, when she sat alone notching and
                    slicing at her wooden fleet. And indeed, the girl was as much alone now, in this
                    studio full of human beings, as in the silence of the leafy garden. Vincent had
                    gone on his travels—had been gone, indeed, for nearly six months, and all that
                    she had to remind her of that unexpected demonstration of affection in the
                    Harley Street drawing-room was a crumpled letter with an Indian post-mark which
                    she carried about in her pocket. Yes, she was alone, for had she spoken to the
                    boys, she was sure they would have tried to be jocose; and she dreaded the
                    confidences of the young ladies, some of whom had prosperous flirtations,
                    carried on in neighbouring pastry-cooks' shops, or in the rooms of Burlington
                    House with the ‘advanced’ male students. Indeed, the only person she ever spoke
                    to was an old student who had been through the Academy schools, and who came to
                    the Central London to work from the draped model, his studio on Haverstock Hill
                    being just now in the hands of workmen.
                Mr. Perry Jackson was an under-sized, drab-faced young man of about thirty, who
                    gave the casual spectator the impression that
                    he was a grown-up London gutter-boy. But in truth he had had no such dramatic
                    beginnings. His parents, the well-to-do proprietors of a small upholsterer's
                    shop in the Hampstead Road, had given him a fair education, and were now proud
                    of having turned their only child into an ‘artist and a gentleman.’ To Mary, Mr.
                    Jackson was so frankly, so completely himself, representing such an unknown,
                    unguessed-at type, that he ended by amusing her. Perry Jackson, to be sure, was
                    already a rising man; he had an extraordinary facility for drawing pretty faces.
                    His black and white work in Illustrations was much
                    admired at the railway stations, while already he had had one or two flashy
                    pictures on the line at the Royal Academy.
                How well Mary remembered the day she had begun her Laocoon, for the next
                    competition. It would take, with its infinitely minute stippling, six months to
                    complete.
                ‘I'd advise you to look sharp and begin, Miss Erle,’ Mr. Jackson had said, who,
                    though rather abashed by his neighbour's manners, was inclined to be friendly.
                    ‘That serpent'll take you every day of six weeks, let alone the figure. They're
                    awfully down on a fellow, I can tell you, at the Academy, if the shading ain't
                    quite up to the mark. Anybody can correct the
                    drawing for you, don't you see, but you've got to do that blessed stippling
                    yerself.’
                ‘Thanks. I think I will begin at once.’
                ‘Right you are. Take this place, Miss Erle, there's a better light,’ suggested
                    Mr. Jackson, who was good-nature itself. ‘Let me fix your easel. There. You may
                    use the plumb-line as much as you like,’ continued the young man, his small,
                    pale eyes twinkling with vivacity; ‘and I'll correct your outline for you. I
                    ought to know something about it,’ he added with sudden candour. ‘Why, I went up
                    for the R.A. Schools three times myself.’
                There were two or three girls, besides herself, who were competing for the
                    Academy, and several men, one of whom was verging on fifty years of age, and
                    whose hair and unkempt beard were already turned grey. A legend current in the
                    school related that this person had been competing for the Royal Academy Schools
                    ever since he was eighteen years old. There was Miss Simpkins, a strapping young
                    woman with a large, vague face, which somehow suggested a muffin, and who
                    carried a small edition of Modern Painters about in
                    a leather hand-bag, together with a pocket-comb, a hand-mirror, some ham
                    sandwiches, and a selection of different kinds of chalk, and who had many
                    confidences to impart to a pale girl with red
                    ringlets, whom Mary remembered as the daughter of a confectioner in St. John's
                    Wood, a girl who affected peacock-blue velveteen, and was understood to be
                    intermittently in love with Mr. Jackson.
                On the December day in question the glass door opened, and a small, pale man,
                    wearing a frock coat and a narrow black necktie, and having the appearance and
                    manner of an attorney's head clerk, stood bending over the first easel. Mr.
                    Sanderson, the headmaster, was a person who rarely committed himself to a
                    definite opinion, and especially to an adverse one. He wished, above all things,
                    to be well with the students, so that his usual criticism took the form of:—
                ‘Going on ve-r-y nicely, Miss Simpkins. Perhaps, on the whole, you might look to
                    the movement of that head. Yes, just so. The arms, now, should you say they were
                    just a little out of drawing? And the right leg, eh? perhaps, too, it might be
                    as well to reconsider the position of the torso. Coming on nicely, Miss
                    Simpkins.’
                And Miss Simpkins, a lady whose devotion to the doctrines of Mr. Ruskin was
                    perhaps more remarkable than her artistic skill, settled her amber necklace and
                    continued to paint.
                At the next easel was heard, ‘Ah, a very ambitious view of the model, Miss Erle.
                        It might be perhaps as well to reconsider
                    the position of the figure. Just as well, on the whole, for the artist not to
                    hamper himself with unnecessary difficulties. Very good, very good. In quite a
                    promising condition, Miss Erle.’ At the Central London, it will be seen,
                    everything worked smoothly. The advent of the headmaster was the signal for
                    general amenities. Every daub, every ill-drawn head, and every smeared, smooth
                    drapery received its meed of praise. There were no tears, such as water the
                    upward path of the student in a Parisian atelier; there were no ambitions, no heart-burnings, no
                    rivalries. No one at the Central London had ever been known to have a theory to
                    express, or if he had, it remained locked in his own breast.
                It had already begun to dawn upon Mary that the whole thing was a foolish
                    pretence at work. Slipping from her seat, she dropped back to the easel on which
                    still stood her drawing of the Laocoon, a drawing which was beginning to assume,
                    as it was destined to do, the appearance of a dotted engraving. She was
                    standing, somewhat desponding and disheartened, before this thing which had cost
                    her so much toil, and on the success of which so much depended, when the door
                    burst open, and there appeared a radiant vision of velvet and sables, and of an audacious hat which only Alison
                    Ives in one of her ‘worldly’ fits could have invented.
                ‘Nom d'un chien!’ cried that young lady,
                    descending on Mary, and forcibly removing her drawing-board; ‘am I to stand by
                    and see you become a British female artist? You've got to come to a tea—a tea at
                    home in Portman Square. We're driving straight back. Mother's out there in the
                    carriage. Come on.’
                ‘I can't,’ said Mary: ‘I told you I couldn't. I'm not going out; and I ought to
                    work for another hour. The thing goes in in a day or two.’
                ‘Pooh!’ said Alison, as she found the girl's hat and cloak, and bundled her
                    unceremoniously into the carriage; ‘the whole thing is a farce.’
                ‘But I believe these schools are excellent things for—for the kind of persons
                    whom dear Mary describes so amusingly,’ put in Lady Jane.
                ‘Nonsense, mother,’ said Alison. ‘You've never been inside one. The whole thing
                    is impossible. Schools of cooking, and not schools of art, are what we want,’
                    shouted Alison as they rattled over the stones. ‘You may leave your painter
                    genius to find his way to the front, whereas boiled potatoes are a daily
                    necessity. Go and talk,’ continued the girl, with a smile, ‘about your stippled
                    gladiators and Laocoons in a serious French
                    studio, where they work. Why, they would laugh in your face.’
                ‘How nice it must be in Paris,’ said Mary with a sigh. A place where they
                    disapproved of the Laocoon as an exercise in art seemed to her to open out a
                    vista of delightful possibilities.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER VII
                A KETTLEDRUM AT LADY JANE'S
                LADY JANE IVES was always to be found in Portman Square at five, but
                    to-day she had sent out cards, so that an hour later the lofty, gaunt rooms,
                    with their faded crimson carpets, their flowery chintzes and their many mirrors,
                    were dotted with little groups. Lady Jane disliked new fashions in her house,
                    and the general effect, in an over-luxurious age, was somewhat cheerless. The
                    stiff, hard Guardis on the walls, in which tin gondoliers were propelling iron
                    gondolas on a leaden lagoon, with a background of grey zinc palaces, were but
                    faintly visible by the tentative light of the circle of candles in the quivering
                    lustre chandelier. Between the starched lace curtains stood monster Chinese
                    vases, swollen like vases seen in an uneasy dream. The buhl cabinets had chilly
                    marble tops; the rosewood tables held vast photograph albums. Lady Jane had
                    arranged the rooms on her marriage some forty years ago, and it had not occurred
                    to her to change them.
                
                Parliament had just opened; so that people were back in town. Here and there a
                    man's black coat was visible. There was a subdued murmur of talk. People were
                    slipping out quietly under cover of someone else's arrival, dropping the
                    perfunctory smile which they had exhibited for ten minutes under the lustre
                    chandelier, as they made their way quickly out into the portico, where a small
                    army of grooms, with faces as drab and unemotional as their overcoats, hung
                    about the steps.
                ‘I've just come from the Ambassador of all the Russias,’ drawled a pretty woman
                    to Lady Jane, as she stood, in the swaggering attitude which she affected on
                    entering a drawing-room, just at the door.
                ‘My dear, you shouldn't encourage those barbarians,’ declared her hostess; ‘it's
                    so shockingly radical to approve of foreign tyrannies.’
                Alison, assisted by Mary, was pouring out tea in the gaunt back drawing-room. It
                    was noticeable that most of the men had collected round the table. ‘I won't have
                    my friends fed at a sort of sublimated coffee-stall in the dining-room,’
                    announced Lady Jane. ‘It's a young woman's mission to make tea for her friends.
                    Alison, remember Lady Blaythewaite doesn't like sugar.’ ‘Vous versez le thé avec
                    une grâce parfaite,’ sighed a sentimental
                        attaché of vague Slav nationality, who was
                    famous for turning compliments out of the most unlikely materials.
                And Mary Erle, in her black clothes, sat on one side and looked at the little
                    comedy with impartial eyes. It seemed so long since she had been in society; she
                    supposed she was out of touch with the world. Vanity Fair, since she had left it
                    for so many months, seemed curiously foolish.
                Close to her, the pretty woman, who stood sipping her tea amid an admiring circle
                    of black coats, had already got on one of her favourite topics.
                ‘I don't mean to be done out of Monte Carlo, this year,’ she announced in a
                    penetrating voice, and with the air of one who is accustomed to have her least
                    brilliant observations received with attention; ‘so I've told Sir Horace he can
                    have as many shooting parties as he likes, but I'm off on the 31st.’
                The eyes of the complimentary Slav waxed brilliant as he gazed admiringly at Lady
                    Blaythewaite.
                ‘All very well,’ objected a perfectly-dressed and perfectly self-satisfied young
                    man, who gave the casual spectator the impression, from the parting of his
                    beautifully cared-for hair to the pointed toes of his shiny boots, he was
                        elabor- ately, exquisitely new and clean:
                    ‘all very well for ladies,’ he said deliberately, ‘but how on earth is a feller
                    to go away in December if he wants to get any huntin'—what? Why, the Duchess
                    said the other night when I told her I wasn't goin'——’
                But to make room for two new arrivals, the exquisitely clean young man was
                    obliged to step into the background, and the rest of his story was lost to every
                    one but the pretty woman. After these two had thrashed out the engrossing
                    subject of Monte Carlo, the word ‘Plumpton’ was bandied about, and afterwards
                    the name of the latest three-act farce. The exquisitely clean young man, it
                    appeared, was a great theatre-goer; in fact, he admitted that he went so often
                    that it was impossible to recollect the names of the house, the play, or the
                    actors.
                ‘I don't remember the name of the piece, don't you know,’ he confided, ‘but we
                    saw it the night before last at the Criterion—I think it must have been the
                    Criterion, because we dined in the restaurant first—and the feller I liked
                    awfully, don't you know, was the one who played the feller who kicks out the
                    Johnnie in the third act. Awfully good, what?’
                ‘Oh, yes. Awfully good—wasn't he? We all thought him a dear,’ said the pretty
                        woman in a bored tone. She had had enough
                    of what she called ‘intellectual conversation.’
                ‘What have you done with that charming Mr. Hemming, my dear?’ demanded Lady Jane
                    in a stage whisper, descending on Mary and leading her out of her corner by the
                    arm. And, not waiting for an answer, she went on, ‘You've sent him off to India,
                    you naughty child, and he may die of the cholera or heat-apoplexy, and then
                    you'll be sorry. Poor fellow, he looked so terribly cut-up. He came to see me
                    just before he went. His father was an old flame of mine. But the men were more
                    enterprising when I was young. They didn't take “no” for an answer.’
                ‘But, dear Lady Jane,’ whispered Mary, ‘I didn't give “no” for an answer.’ All
                    this was said while a lady with sloping shoulders and dyed black hair was
                    performing a rather deliberate solo on the harp.
                But her hostess, whose eyes were turned towards the door, did not apparently
                    grasp the import of Mary's words. Lady Jane was very fond of Professor Erle's
                    daughter—the professor had always been one of the familiar faces at her Sunday
                    dinners—but she was a somewhat indifferent listener, and just now she had not
                    only to thank the fair harpist—but a new arrival was claiming her attention.
                ‘Ah! there is my dear doctor,’ exclaimed Lady
                    Jane with much vivacity. ‘How good of you,’ she said, with more enthusiasm than
                    she had yet exhibited, ‘to find time to come and see an old woman.’
                The man addressed was a striking figure enough; he had, moreover, that imposing
                    air which endears itself to the feminine imagination. Dr. Dunlop Strange was a
                    favourite with women in society. His speciality was nervous disease. He had done
                    a great deal of useful work, had made one important discovery which had brought
                    him prominently before the public, and was understood to be about to receive a
                    baronetcy. Mary remembered his face. She had met him out often in the old days:
                    at soirées at learned societies, at the
                    dinner-tables of the celebrated or the merely smart. He was a man of forty-five,
                    a little under the medium size, with a perpetual upright pucker just between his
                    eyes. Those eyes, the girl noticed, spoilt his face; they were small and
                    somewhat shifty; but as he usually wore a pince-nez this peculiarity was not
                    noticeable. He looked tired, but not at all bored.
                The doctor was understood to be devoted to Alison, and, for once, Alison seemed
                    pleased. Though she was good-looking and moved in a somewhat go-ahead set, she
                    had never been known to have an ordinary flirtation. She used to say that she supposed she should have to marry some
                    day—the later the better—because it was absurd to suppose that old maids had any
                    influence on people's lives; and Power, to put it plainly, was what the modern
                    woman craved. She supposed, in that respect, that she wasn't any better than the
                    rest of her sex. Lady Jane was delighted; asked the doctor constantly to dinner,
                    and insisted on his assisting at one of her Happy Afternoons for Pauper
                    Lunatics. And Dr. Strange went; as indeed he would have gone anywhere just now
                    to meet Alison.
                ‘By the by,’ she said, giving him a cup of tea, and pretending not to notice that
                    his eyes were devouring every detail of her handsome personality, ‘I want you
                    particularly to know Mary Erle—Professor Erle's daughter. Of course you've met
                    her, but I want you to know her. She's one of my few friends.’
                Alison seemed in high spirits since Dr. Dunlop Strange's arrival.
                ‘Here's Mr. Bosanquet-Barry,’ she whispered, as a beautiful young man with Parma
                    violets in his coat appeared in the doorway; ‘one of mother's young friends.
                    He's the new editor of the Comet.’
                ‘The editor,’ repeated Mary incredulously, emerging from a conversation with Dr.
                    Strange, which she had carried on with difficulty, seeing that his eyes were fixed on Alison all the time. ‘The
                    editor of the Comet? Why, he looks a mere boy.’
                ?’My dear, he's seven-and-twenty. Besides, that's the new idea in journalism. You
                    pluck your editor nice and hot from Oxford—someone who has none of the old
                    hackneyed Fleet Street ideas.’
                ‘This one,’ observed Mary thoughtfully, ‘doesn't look as if he had any ideas at
                    all.’
                ‘Oh I but then he's devoted to the Primrose League—and mother. He goes to her
                    Happy Afternoons. I hear that all the smart set are in love with him—if that's
                    any recommendation. Mary, you must be introduced. You'll have to know these
                    people if you're going to be an artist.’
                On closer inspection Mr. Bosanquet-Barry turned out to have a somewhat spurious
                    air of youth. The effect of extreme juvenility was produced by his fair skin,
                    his dazzlingly white teeth, and his piercingly blue eyes. He entertained Mary,
                    as he got her a cup of tea, with a spirited account of a visit to a minor
                    music-hall, which he and a pale-faced boy with tired eyelids and an exaggerated
                    button-hole had arranged the night before for Lady Blaythewaite.
                ‘It all went all right,’ said Mr. Bosanquet-Barry confidentially, ‘until the
                    last. Lady Blaythewaite swore she'd never
                    enjoyed anything so much in her life. Can't say I did, as I had to talk to the
                    girl she brought with her, who was ugly as sin. However, I had to leave 'em a
                    minute at the door, to see after the carriage, and then some beastly cad spoke
                    to her.’
                ‘How very unpleasant,’ said Mary, who felt she was expected to sympathise with
                    this lady's adventures in a London music-hall.
                ‘Oh,’ chuckled Mr. Bosanquet-Barry, with a laugh which was not quite pretty. ‘I
                    don't believe she minded—I shouldn't wonder if she rather liked it. At any rate,
                    she shouldn't wear such outrageous clothes. I wonder Sir Horace——’
                ‘Oh, Sir Horace doesn't care,’ interrupted the pale-faced boy, whose name, it
                    appeared, was Beaufort Flower, though he was usually briefly addressed as
                    ‘Beaufy’; ‘Sir Horace doesn't care, he don't pay for them, you know.’
                And with a display of all his white teeth at once, the editor of the
                            Comet, who with all his boyishness had
                    picked up the editor's air of not meaning to allow anyone to detain him, bowed
                    abruptly and was now seen pressing the hands of several ladies of quality as he
                    steered his way towards the door.
                ‘He is an odious youth,’ said Alison calmly.
                    ‘I'm not responsible, you know, for all mother's “boys.” Sometimes he comes and
                    stops for hours. They talk scandal all the time, and, Heaven preserve us! the
                    scandal of the fifties—about women who are grandmothers, or in their graves.
                    Don't you think it a depraved taste, Dr. Strange?’ continued the girl.
                ‘Perhaps,’ he answered with a smile, ‘he's going to write a book of
                    reminiscences. You begin collecting at about twenty, and you keep your scandal,
                    well-corked and in a dry place, till you are about eighty. Then you publish with
                    additions.’
                ‘I dare say,’ laughed Alison, ‘that scandal doesn't “keep” any better than other
                    things. A little venom has to be added.’
                ‘Scandal,’ put in the pretty woman, emerging suddenly from a flirtation with the
                    sentimental Slav, ‘is only interesting about one's contemporaries.’
                ‘Dear me, what an interesting woman Lady Blaythewaite must be,’ whispered Mr.
                    Beaufort Flower into the ear of a solemn man with a heavy jaw, who was
                    well-connected, and who was understood to write essays in Addisonian
                    English.
                ‘Ah!’ ejaculated the solemn man, with a thoughtful glance at the pretty
                    woman.
                ‘My only objection to immoral people,’ chat-
                    tered the other, gazing at her with weary, half-closed eyes, ‘is that they're
                    generally so shockingly censorious.
                ‘No one else's conduct, I suppose,’ rejoined the solemn man deliberately, ‘comes
                    up to their high ethical standard.’
                ‘My heavens!’ exclaimed the pretty woman, who had heard part of the answer,
                    ‘they've begun to talk of ethical standards! I mustn't keep the roans any
                    longer. Good-bye, all you people, good-bye.’
                And sweeping away among her rustling silk petticoats the complimentary Slav, Lady
                    Blaythewaite's tiny head and wide shoulders were seen descending the
                    staircase.
                There was a pause. Most of the people were leaving. From the open hall door came
                    the click of closing carriage-doors, the word ‘Home’ pronounced in the official
                    voice of the unemotional grooms, and the sound of departing wheels. Dr. Dunlop
                    Strange was bending towards Alison, talking earnestly.
                ‘Charmin' rooms,’ said Mr. Beaufy Flower vaguely, terrified at finding himself
                    alone with Mary, whom he took for his especial aversion, a débutante. His eye ran round the rather bare walls,
                    the fluted steel fenders, the marble mantelpieces topped by their huge mirrors.
                    ‘So nice and old-fashioned, aren't they? Should
                    you say early Victorian now, or late William the Fourth?’
                But the favourite modern amusement of whispering malicious things of one's host
                    or hostess behind their backs had never appealed to her, and much to his
                    surprise the fair girl in mourning evinced no further desire for his society,
                    but with one of those little manoeuvres which only women of the world know how
                    to execute without offence, she had joined Alison and the doctor.
                ‘Good gracious!’ he said to himself as he tripped downstairs to his brougham.
                    ‘How pert! I don't believe she's a débutante
                    after all.’
            
            
            
                CHAPTER VIII
                MARY TRIES TO LIVE HER LIFE
                ONE night, about a fortnight later, Mary walked home to her lodgings in
                    Bulstrode Street more than usually weary and anxious. Somehow she felt hipped;
                    she would have liked to creep back, just for once, to the book-lined
                    drawing-room in Harley Street, with its indefinable air of perfect taste and
                    perfect comfort; to the little tea-table near the fire, with its silver kettle,
                    its dainty china, and the hot cakes which cook used to make so well. In those
                    days, Mary remembered with a pang, a well-known step would be heard ascending
                    the stair, and the professor would come in, with his keen eyes, and his dear,
                    thin face, and stand with his back to the fire while he sipped his tea and
                    teased his ‘little girl.’
                But instead, she entered the narrow passage of a house in Bulstrode Street, of
                    which the varnished marble paper, as well as the grained staircase and stiff
                    patterned oil-cloth were worn and stained with
                    age, and ascended to her own domain, which consisted of two rooms. In the little
                    bed-room, giving on a grimy back-yard, there was a small iron bed with
                    starved-looking pillows, a washing apparatus of which every article, by a
                    strange chance, was of a different pattern, two chairs, and a chest of drawers
                    in imitation grained wood, with white china handles. On the walls, covered with
                    a paper on which apples of a dingy yellow sprawled, in endless repetition, on a
                    dull green ground, were several framed texts. A yacht in full sail, on the
                    bluest of lithograph seas, was accompanied by the words, ‘Search the
                    Scriptures;’ while opposite, encased in an Oxford oak frame, a stout,
                    highly-coloured kingfisher emerging from a colony of bulrushes, faced another
                    familiar phrase. These pictorial aids to piety were the only ornaments of the
                    bedroom, and Mary often smiled when she thought of the delicate silver point
                    drawings that hung on the pink walls at home. She thought, too, of the things
                    that used to strike her as she read, and which she would write out and pin up in
                    her pretty luxurious bed-room; the scraps of poetry in various tongues which she
                    would scribble hastily on the back of some young man's visiting card,and then
                    pin up, with a slender gilt tack, on to her door; especially those lines of James Thomson's, which, about a year after
                    her first heart-ache, when all had ended in disappointment, it had given her
                    such ironical pleasure to nail up in her bed-room, to the bewilderment of the
                    new housemaid: 
                        ‘The old three hundred sixty-five
                        Dull days to every year alive
                        
                        Old toil, old care, old worthless treasures,
                        Old gnawing sorrows, swindling pleasures,
                        The cards were shuffled to and fro,
                        The hands may vary somewhat so,
                        The dirty pack's the same we know
                        Played with long thousand years ago;
                        Played with and lost with still by Man—
                        Fate marked them 'ere the game began.’
                     Ah, she could afford to be pessimistic in those days! As Mary took off her
                    hat and threw her cloak on the narrow bed, hastening her toilet for the evening
                    because of the bitter cold of the room, she repeated these lines softly to
                    herself; oddly enough, they evoked an image of that pretty bygone bedroom, of a
                    tent-bed with gay draperies, a fire blazing against a background of Dutch tiles,
                    on which blue ships in full sail were scudding over stiff curly waves, of soft
                    mats of white fur on which it was a joy to tread with bare feet. ‘No, I can't
                    afford to be pessimistic, now,’ thought the girl, as she went into the other
                    room. The fire was nearly out, but two
                    gas-burners, which had been lighted by the maid-of-all-work, and left on at full
                    tap, had already loaded the air with the fumes of gas. It was now a quarter past
                    six; she could not ask for tea, although her throat burned and her head ached.
                    No, she must wait for dinner, her modest little dinner, which was served, with
                    variations as to punctuality, about seven o'clock.
                Mary threw herself on to the hard sofa, and her eyes travelled round the room.
                    The furniture was old, shabby, and pretentious. She had an idea that there were
                    cheap Landseer engravings on the wall, but Mary had made up her mind never to
                    look at the pictures; otherwise, she said, she would have had to change her
                    lodgings at once, and that she did not wish to do, as the landlady was an old
                    servant of theirs, and would look after her better than a stranger. After all,
                    the place would do well enough as a makeshift. It was best, she thought, not to
                    accept invitations from friends, but to begin to live her own life. On days like
                    to-day, when she was weary and disheartened, Mary found it necessary to repeat
                    this phrase in her mind: ‘To live her own life.’ For it was all dispiriting
                    enough. Art and artists, as exemplified in the Central London, were but
                    doubtfully alluring; Mary wondered if anywhere else she might find the ‘art’
                    atmosphere of which she had read so much. But
                    anyhow her Academy drawing was done; it had gone in with a dozen others, and
                    to-morrow she would know if she had succeeded.
                She lay like a log on the hard sofa, while the gilt clock with the hovering cupid
                    slowly ticked out three-quarters of an hour. On the mantel-piece a long
                    photograph of Alison, in an evening gown, exhibiting a good deal of a fine arm
                    and shoulder, was supported by a large one of Vincent Hemming, with his grave
                    expression, and wearing an orchid in his button-hole.
                At last came dinner, heralded by an odour of boiled potatoes and frizzling meat.
                    But the girl was too tired to eat the badly-cooked food; she pushed away the
                    steak, which was tough and hard, and tried to drink some of the small bottle of
                    stout, which was flat, with a strange flavour. Mary rebuked herself for these
                    fantasies of the appetite; it behoved a young woman who wished to make her way
                    in the world and compete with men to indulge in no such over-niceties. But a
                    very feminine backache overcame her, and presently the maid-of-all-work, in
                    creaking boots, removed with much clattering the dishes, and Mary was left alone
                    with the firelight for a companion.
                The photographs of her two friends looked down on her from the mantelpiece;
                    Alison, with her capable expression and her distinguished air; Vincent Hemming, with his showily intellectual
                    forehead, his weak mouth, and the slight frown which he sometimes affected. What
                    a long time it seemed since they had said good-bye, first on that long summer
                    day which they had spent at Haslemere, and finally at Tilbury, when the great P.
                    and 0. steamer had been swallowed up in the greyness of the wide river and
                    tearful sky. Yes, a long time; but he had grown more to her in his absence than
                    he had ever been, even at the last, for Mary was of the order of women who
                    idealise the absent. Oddly enough, Vincent, pacing the deck of the Sutlej in his flapping ulster and his soft felt hat
                    (he was not one of those people who look their best in travelling costume), had
                    seemed more of a stranger than the man whose letters, arriving by the Indian
                    mail, lay beside her plate every Monday morning. She remembered with a smile how
                    fussy he had been about his luggage, and how humiliated she had felt when,
                    man-like, Vincent Hemming had insisted on a last embrace, and, drawing her into
                    his cabin, had shut the door in the face of the steward. She had dwelt a great
                    deal on those last moments. He had seemed so passionately attached to her; the
                    whole affair, though it had been obliged to remain vague, had become a solemn
                    fact in her existence.
                
                A letter from Vincent had arrived that morning; Mary felt in her pocket for the
                    thin, crackling envelope bearing the post-mark ‘Calcutta.’ It was a peculiarity
                    of Hemming's that one, and sometimes two, pages of his letters were indited in a
                    flowing hand, while the rest of the paper was covered with uncertain upright
                    hieroglyphics, which took all the reader's patience and good-will to
                    decipher.
                ‘My dear Mary’ (it began)—‘My delightful roamings have been brought to a
                    standstill in this ancient and historic spot, one so eminently suited to the
                    special studies which I desire, in furtherance of my scheme, to make. You will,
                    I am sure, be delighted to hear that on all hands I have had every civility and
                    courtesy extended to me from officials of every class, and that my father's name
                    alone has been a sufficient introduction for me, in those circles in which it is
                    most desirable for the purpose I have in hand to move. You will also, my dear
                    Mary, be rejoiced to hear that my health has vastly improved since my departure
                    from England; the fact alone that I anticipate with pleasure the advent of
                    breakfast will give you a fair idea of my improved state of health, and I think
                    I may say that, considering the somewhat trying nature of the climatic
                    conditions, my appearance has wonderfully improved. But enough of my- self. I need not say that I am delighted to hear that
                    you are bravely and earnestly attacking those art studies which, with due
                    application, will ensure you fame, and possibly wealth, and which will, my
                    dearest girl, be no mean factor in our (possible) future happiness.’
                Mary sighed as she let the letter drop, and gazed thoughtfully into the fire. It
                    was here that the flowing persuasive handwriting terminated abruptly, and that
                    the upright uncertain characters began.
                ‘Had I’ (it went on) ‘no dreams, no aspirations for the amelioration of the
                    English race—were I, in short, a man to whom personal happiness is paramount—I
                    might have spoken more decisively in relation to a possible future together
                    before I left England. But I am paying you no mean compliment, my dear Mary,
                    when I tell you that I have every confidence that in you, as in myself,
                    questions of vast importance rise superior to mere selfish considerations, and
                    that in you, above all women, I have a sympathetic sharer alike of my ambitions,
                    dreams, and hopes. It is above all in studying the marvellous system of
                    government of a vast aggregation of human beings of divers nationalities, of
                    such widely-differing ethical standards as this great Indian Empire—’ and here
                    the handwriting changed again to the slanting style and mean- dered on over three crisp pages which the girl let
                    fall on her lap. Somehow she would not reconcile this lover, with his
                    old-fashioned phrases and copybook platitudes, with the Vincent Hemming who had
                    held her in his arms in the cabin of the Sutlej, crushing the breath out of her body in the supreme moment
                    of farewell. . . . Of the fine irony which results from the clash of human
                    passion and human ambition she had not, as yet, a conception. It is to be feared
                    that Mary, with all her somewhat worldly training, was, as far as her affections
                    were concerned, astonishingly naïve. She was only a girl after all.
                And so, in the dim light of the dreary apartments, Mary sat and dreamed her
                    little dream. Lonely, tired, discouraged, she clung to the thought of their
                    marriage with curious tenacity. She was haunted incessantly by a vision of
                    tender brown eyes, of a caressing hand, of a sympathetic voice; of a pretty
                    interior with books, and pictures, and soft lamp-light; of a man's head uplifted
                    from a desk, while she held her latest picture up for her husband to see. He was
                    not a judge of pictures, she remembered with a smile; he would probably think
                    her modest attempts masterpieces. Why, he had even liked the sketch she had made
                    at Haslemere, on that last day they had spent in the country together. After all, Vincent and she together
                    would have enough to live quietly on; if she succeeded in her art, he might even
                    yet realise his ambition and enter on a political career. What, indeed, might
                    not the years bring forth? However dismal things seemed now, there was Hope—that
                    Will-o'-the-wisp of the young—beckoning her from the dim valleys of the future.
                    To-morrow, to-morrow she would know.
                Mary took up the letter again, and bending down to the fire, re-read one or two
                    affectionate phrases at the last. Then she put it carefully into a locked case
                    which contained some twenty epistles in thin envelopes, turned out the gas, and
                    went into her chilly bedroom, where, in the process of brushing out her fluffy
                    blond hair for the night, she told herself valiantly that she was a lucky little
                    person.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER IX
                PERRY CONSOLES
                THE next day—the day which was to decide her fate with the Academy
                    schools—revealed itself shrouded with fog. By the light of one gas-burner Mary
                    tried to eat some breakfast, but the doubtful allurements of the boiled egg
                    which usually awaited her appealed to her to-day in vain. She had slept badly
                    and risen late; it was now half-past ten. Already, at the art school, in the
                    grimy little office, the names of the successful candidates would be nailed up.
                    No, she could not eat; she must know. It meant so much to her, so much more, she
                    thought, than to any of the others. It meant independence, a profession, a happy
                    union. How many hoped-for marriages she had seen fail among professional people
                    just for the want of a mere hundred or so a year. If she were good enough for
                    the Academy schools, she felt that there was a future before her. She saw
                    herself, in imagination, working, earning, helping.
                
                Putting on her coat and hat she was soon outside in the fog, and threading her
                    away along the streets to the School of Art. Underfoot was a layer of greasy
                    mud. In the little shops a bleared gas-light made an orange patch in the
                    all-pervading greyness. At the fruiterers' the mounds of golden oranges, crimson
                    apples, and scarlet tomatoes flamed with startling assurance against the
                    blurred, brownish-grey of the houses, the pavement, the very atmosphere. She was
                    curiously alive, now, to effects of colour, to ‘values’; everywhere the girl saw
                    a possible picture. If she had passed, Mary made up her mind she would telegraph
                    to Vincent. It would be an extravagance, but it would make him so happy. Mary
                    pictured her lover reading that charming message from over the seas, as he sat
                    in an Indian verandah in a white flannel suit, with a hazy background of punkahs
                    and date palms.
                Afterwards, when she thought of that day, she remembered that the hall of the art
                    school was full of students, all talking at once. At the sight of the girl's
                    expectant face someone called out goodnaturedly, ‘I say, you're in, Miss Erle.
                    I'm sure I saw your name on the list. It's in the office, pinned up over the
                    mantel-piece.’
                Mary slid into the little room without a word.
                    Yes, there was the list of successful probationers, written in Mr. Sanderson's
                    careful hand on a slip of notepaper, and pinned up with a brass drawing pin over
                    the mantelpiece. Her eye ran hastily along the list—‘Simpkins, Dorothy Muriel;
                    Smith, Mary Gwendo]en; Walsh, Joseph Frederick; Billington, George Francis;
                    Thomson, Pamela Evelyn; Beadle, Reginald Forsyth.’ That was all. She read it
                    again to make sure, repeating to herself, mechanically, the Dorothys, Pamelas,
                    and Gwendolens of the back-shop. No, there was no possible mistake. The name of
                    Mary Erle was not there. And so it was all over... Never, she felt, should she
                    have the courage to spend another six months labouring and stippling over
                    another Laocoon. The girl slipped into a chair in a corner. Her disappointment
                    had affected her physically, her feet were icy cold; she felt, without being
                    hungry, as if she had nothing inside her, while the voices of people talking
                    round sounded strange and far away.
                But presently she roused herself and went through the big room to collect some
                    things she had left. Only Mr. Perry Jackson met her behind the olive-green
                    curtain :—Mr. Jackson, who, although the workmen were now out of his studio, was
                    curiously often to be seen at the school.
                
                He glanced at Mary and instantly read the disappointment in her face. Though
                    young, he was, after all, a Londoner, and had the Cockney's intuitive knowledge
                    of the world. He even went so far as to congratulate Miss Erle in having failed
                    to attain the desired standard of academical excellence. He had, as he admitted
                    with pleasing candour, only got his own drawing admitted, in the years gone by,
                    ‘by the skin of its teeth.’ As for himself, he had mainly attended the classes
                    (and this was said with something very like a wink) to make friends with the
                    Royal Academicians. ‘They're all right when you know 'em, but you've got to know
                    'em first,’ quoted the rising artist. ‘There's old Jack Madder, who always does
                    Wardour Street pictures; he's not half a bad old chap, and thinks no end of me.
                    He's on the Hanging Committee next year. I go and ask his advice. I'm going to
                    do a big thing for next year's Academy, and I'll eat my hat if it isn't on the
                    line!’
                ‘I hope so, I'm sure,’ replied Mary, smiling. ‘When are you going to begin?’
                ‘Oh, at once. I've got an idea that's bound to fetch the public.’ ‘Indeed?’
                    replied Mary, amused at his naïve optimism.
                ‘I shall call it “The Time of Roses.” What do
                    you think of that? Neat, eh? Nothing but girls, and nothing but roses. Lord, you
                    can't give the public enough of either of them. It likes 'em, because they both
                    “go off” so soon,’ added Mr. Jackson, charmed with his own perspicacity. ‘It'll
                    be an eight-footer, if it's an inch, and if it isn't on the line next May——’
                ‘I dare say it will be an immense success,’ said Mary quietly, as she thought of
                    bygone Private Views, and of the canvases which had become ‘the picture of the
                    year.’
                ‘Now, for the Grosvenor,’ continued Mr. Jackson—‘after my last Academy picture
                    they're spry enough with their invitations to exhibit there—I shall do a girl in
                    a graveyard. Bless you, people are “death” on cemeteries. Black dress—limp—black
                    hat, hangin' on her arm—black circles round the eyes. And there you are, don't
                    you know.’
                Mary laughed. There was not much doubt about the fact that Mr. Perry Jackson was
                    destined to get on. He had an astonishing facility in painting; in the summer
                    time he worked at vast canvases, out of doors, in the country, painting with
                    large square brushes, in the approved modern manner.
                ‘Oh! I say, Miss Erle,’ said Perry, detaining the girl with a look as she stood
                    putting her painting things together. There was
                    something of despair in the way in which Mary was folding up her easel, and
                    arranging her chalks and paint-brushes in the long tin box, and with his quick
                    sympathy the young man wished to assuage her sickening disappointment.
                ‘Just look here,’ he continued, pulling from a cardboard portfolio an Indian-ink
                    drawing of a beautiful young woman in a ball-dress reading a love-letter. ‘Old
                    “Stick-in-the-mud,” he says he'd like this drawing for
                            Illustrations, only he must have a short
                    story or some verses to go with it. Now, you're so clever, and literary, and
                    read so many books, can't you knock me off something to print with it?’
                Mary, who had never heard of this primitive method of producing imaginative
                    literature, stared in blank astonishment at Mr. Perry Jackson. Her eye caught
                    his knobby hands, his stubbly hair, his knowing, anaemic, town-bred face, and
                    then the picture of the exquisite woman robed in tulle, which he held in his
                    hand.
                ‘Oh, yes. Why not?’ she found herself saying eagerly. ‘I will try, if you like. I
                    think I could do quite a short story. And I can only —fail,’ she added, a little
                    bitterly, as her mind ran back over the months she had spent in that odious
                    room, herding with hulking boys, who smelt of
                    stale tobacco, with young ladies who tossed their heads archly, and whispered
                    anecdotes of ‘fellows’ whom they met in pastry-cooks' shops, or in the sculpture
                    galleries of the British Museum.
                ‘That's right. Knew you could,’ rejoined Perry, repacking the drawing. ‘It'll be
                    time enough if I have it in a week. I'm doing a story for
                            Illutstrations now. Blessed,’ he added, with
                    a comic twinkle, pushing back his shock head of hair, ‘if I didn't make an ass
                    of myself yesterday. Last week old “Stick-in-the-Mud,” he asked me if I'd do
                    some pictures for a story. “Oh!” I said, “I 'm game,” I said; “who's it by?” And
                    he says, “By Somervail.” Well, I never heard of him—did you, Miss Erle?’
                ‘I know the name,’ said Mary.
                ‘Well, presently comes the MSS., and I read it through, and it was pretty tough
                    work, I can tell you, what with not being type-written, and I not feeling quite
                    fit that day, havin' taken the chair at our smoking concert the night before.
                    However, a few days later comes a stiff kind of a letter from this Somervail,
                    saying I must call at once, that evening, at his house, out Notting Hill way. So
                    off I go in my carriage and pair (the red-and-gold one, don't you know), and
                    presently I find the house. Well, the servant girl, she showed me up a passage
                    covered all over with autotypes, framed alike
                    in white. Crikey' thought I, here's “High Art.” There's nothing good enough for
                    this chap but Rossetti, and Burne-Jones, and Watts. And in the drawing-room it
                    was just the same——’
                ‘But didn't you know then whom it was?’ asked Mary, smiling.
                ‘No, blessed if I did!’ rejoined Mr. Jackson. ‘And so this Mr. Somervail comes
                    in. “Oh, good evening,” says he, without any more ceremony than that. “Have you
                    brought the rough sketches for my story?” “No,” I said, “I haven't,” I said,
                    just imitating his off-hand manner, “because you wouldn't have understood 'em if
                    I had.”’
                ‘But didn't you know,’ said Mary, ‘that Mr. Somervail is the art critic of two or
                    three London papers?’
                ‘Nary a bit. Well, he laughed—a sort of thin, superior laugh it was—but he didn't
                    say anything; and so I got out all right. But I felt a precious fool when I
                    heard who he was.’
                ‘Let us hope,’ said Mary, who remembered the great art critic at dinner-parties,
                    exhibiting his culture, with a modest air, ‘let us hope Mr. Somervail isn't
                    vindictive.’
                Perry looked uneasy.
                ‘I say,’ he suggested, genially, ‘why shouldn't you turn art critic, Miss Erle,
                    and slate us all round? Old Somervail, he's
                    made a good thing out of it!’
                At that instant a tumult of voices behind the curtain made further conversation
                    impossible. A girl's shrill scream was suddenly audible, and then, the next
                    second, the heavy crash of a falling plaster cast rent the momentary silence.
                    Shouts, exclamations, and inextinguishable laughter, mingled with the sound of
                    scurrying feet, followed. An untoward gaiety was evidently illumining the usual
                    routine of the school. As Mary, gathering up her things, passed through into the
                    large studio, a boy's raucous voice raised the joyous, but somewhat incongruous
                    refrain :— 
                        ‘The pore girl didn't know, yer know,
                        The pore girl didn't know’—
                     a quotation which may or may not have had reference to the now triumphant
                    probationer, Miss Simpkins, who, with heightened colour and agitated mien, was
                    bending over the many fragments of the shattered Laocoon, which lay strewn about
                    the floor.
                The rest of the day, it would seem, was to be devoted to celebrating the
                    admittance of Messrs. Walsh, Billington, and Beadle to the Royal Academy
                    Schools, for, scared at Miss Simpkins' misadventure, the girls incontinently
                    fled. A drawing—a laboriously stippled
                    drawing—was triumphantly wrenched from an overturned board, and torn in many
                    pieces; the easels were as unceremoniously hurled against the wall. Some bottles
                    of beer made a mysterious appearance, and, from some one's bag, two pairs of
                    boxing-gloves were surreptitiously produced. The moment was justly held to be a
                    supreme one, for, dancing on the shattered fragments of the fallen Laocoon, a
                    truculent, if disappointed, young gentleman was heard shouting to the three
                    successful students that, ‘successful or not,’ he would fight them all in
                    turn.
                It may have been the bottled ale, or simply British perseverance, which
                    emboldened the aggressor, for, as he threw off his coat and slipped on the
                    gloves, he was heard fulminating the hazy, if withal glorious, challenge—
                ‘I don't care a rap for your blooming Academy. Come on, you fellows. I'll show
                    you who's the best man!’
            
            
            
                CHAPTER X
                IN GRUB STREET
                IT was a bright morning in January, with scudding, woolly clouds,
                    showing patches of vivid blue. Sunshine brightened the huge gilt letters over
                    the newspaper offices, the crowded, garishly coloured omnibuses, the hansoms
                    laden with portmanteaux on their way to Waterloo Station, the flaxen hair and
                    beflowered hats of the little actresses hurrying along to rehearsal. An
                    ever-moving procession of people poured like a torrent up and down the street;
                    journalists, country folk, office-boys, actors, betting-men, loafers—all the
                    curious, shifting world of the Strand was jogging elbows on the pavement.
                Mary stepped along with a certain sense of adventure. She had to see the editor
                    of Illustrations, but she had no idea of the
                    whereabouts of that popular weekly journal. She had in her pocket, too, a letter
                    of introduction to The Fan. For her first attempt at
                    fiction had actually appeared in print, and she was curiously anxious to go on. For the first few hours, when she had sat
                    staring helplessly at the sheets of white paper which she had torn into loose
                    pages, neatly folding down an inch border for corrections, she had imagined that
                    the thing was impossible. Then, pacing up and down the room, Mary tried hard to
                    concentrate her mind on a plot—a plot in which was to figure a young lady in a
                    tulle ball-dress, reading a three-cornered note. . .. But she could think of
                    nothing. It was all a blank. What had girls in ball dresses got to do with
                    life—with life as it swirled and rushed by her, with its remorseless laws, its
                    unceasing activities? .. . But yet she must think of something. The scene of her
                    story must be laid at a ball; that, as Mr. Perry Jackson would have said, was
                    sure to ‘fetch the public.’ Surely, surely she could invent a love-story? Yet
                    nothing came. There seemed no reason, in the eternal fitness of things, why the
                    hero should be dark and faithful, or blonde and fickle, or if the scene should
                    be laid in the country, in town, or abroad. And there was the illustration, too,
                    for which the story was to be written, and Mary, before she began, had grown to
                    loathe the simpering young lady in tulle, eternally reading her love-letter. . .
                    . But at last, after hours of torment, an idea came, and then the girl wrote
                    steadily on, with the easy facility of the amateur. She had not an idea that her story was like everybody
                    else's story—her way of telling it like that of hundreds of third-rate authors
                    of fiction whom she had read.
                After the clatter and roar of the street, the staircase which led to the editor's
                    room at the office of Illustrations seemed dark and
                    silent. The bare wooden treads were black with age and dirt, and were lighted
                    only by a wan light, which flickered through a frosted-glass door, on which was
                    printed, in gilt letters, the word Illustrations,
                    the first letter having become effaced in the course of years. Underneath was to
                    be read, in black italics: ‘Editor's Room—Private.’
                It was some little time before Mary was able to overcome the scruples of the
                    office-boy—a young gentleman whom she found dallying in an ante-room, pensively
                    whistling a sprightly air which was just then much in favour, while he leisurely
                    perused sundry inexpensive comic journals; but at length she succeeded in
                    persuading him to take in her card. And presently a door was flung open, and
                    Mary found herself in a small room, giving on Fleet Street, fronting a tall man
                    with a large, melancholy face, who was bending over a desk. With some
                    trepidation she remembered that the tall, melancholy man, according to Mr. Perry
                    Jackson, had the reputation of being able to get people out of his office quicker than any other editor in
                    London.
                ‘Professor Erle's daughter, I believe?’ said the editor severely, without looking
                    up from the proofs he was correcting.
                ‘Yes.’
                ‘Ah! We were able to make use of your story, though it was not quite up to the
                    mark.’
                ‘I'm sorry—’ began Mary.
                ‘The name, of course,’ went on the editor, without noticing the interruption,
                    ‘the name counts for something. Your late father's name carries weight with a
                    certain section of the public. And then, with practice, you may do somewhat
                    better. With practice, you may be able to write stories which other young ladies
                    like to read.’
                And with not a suspicion of the ambiguity of his compliment, the editor rummaged
                    in his desk for some missing object.
                Mary's heart fell. Was her story as bad as all that, she wondered? She was aware
                    that, from a literary point of view, such praise was worse than blame. In the
                    pause which followed she had leisure to look round furtively. And so this was
                    the office of a big weekly newspaper? The walls, once painted a kind of
                    pea-green, were dim with soot, and adorned only with a map of London on a
                    roller; on the floor was stretched a grimy,
                    threadbare carpet. A bluish gas-fire hissed in a narrow, black mantelpiece, and
                    through the encrusted grime of the window-panes appeared the tall brick houses
                    of the opposite side of the Strand. A long procession of omnibuses rattled by
                    continually, and she could see the tops of the hats of those who sat on the
                    outside. The sole furniture of the room consisted of a bureau with pigeon-holes,
                    and three chairs, covered in cracked maroon-coloured leather, whose legs partook
                    of that especial curliness which was in high fashion in 1860.
                Meanwhile the editor had found his cheque-book, and, tearing out a leaf, wrote: 
                        ‘Pay to Miss Erle two pounds two shillings for contribu- tions during the
                            month of January.’
                    
                Mary took the cheque with a heightened colour and a beating heart. It was the
                    first money she had ever earned. This was the beginning.
                A tinkling of the electric bell was heard, and the office-boy put in his
                    head.
                ‘A gentleman to see you, sir.’
                ‘What for?’
                ‘Drorings, sir.’
                ‘Show him in.’
                Mary rose.
                ‘Wait a minute, Miss Erle.’
                A long, shambling youth, whose face seemed
                    swollen with the toothache, shuffled in, carrying a portfolio of sketches.
                Not a word passed. It was a strange little scene. The shambling youth stood
                    nervously twisting his shabby pot-hat in his fingers as the editor rapidly ran
                    his eye over the drawings.
                ‘Thanks,’ he said, re-tying the strings and handing back the portfolio over the
                    desk. ‘No use to us. Good morning. Top handle,’ and he waved his pen towards the
                    door. In another instant the aspiring artist was gone.
                ‘Terrible waste of time,‘ muttered the large, melancholy man. ‘Hundreds of them a
                    week.’
                ‘Poor boy,’ said Mary, who had seen his disappointed face.
                ‘Pooh,’ rejoined the editor, frowning; ‘what we want are well-known names; the
                    public likes a name,’ and apparently with an eye to that section of it which had
                    sat at the feet of Professor Erle, he added abruptly, ‘We will consider anything
                    else you may care to submit to us, Miss Erle.’
                ‘Oh, thank you,’ said Mary, ‘I should like to try again,’ and, treading on air,
                    she made her way out, followed by the now admiring glance of the office-boy, who
                    was not accustomed to see people detained in the editorial sanctum so long.
                The girl was inordinately proud of her cheque for two guineas. How much better,
                    after all, than stippling eternally at the
                    Discobolus—for it was the Discobolus this time, with which she was to try her
                    fate at the Academy schools—in the dubious atmosphere of the art school. The
                    story had taken four days to write. There were three hundred and sixty-five days
                    in a year, so that by writing a story or an article every four days she could
                    earn something like two hundred a year! And what lots of papers there were!
                    Fleet Street was full of them. They lurked up alleys and in quaint little
                    squares at the back. Here they were: The Daily Telegraph,
                            The Observer, The Graphic, The
                            Illustrated London News. Why should she not walk in and
                    demand some work to do? The idea was fearfully alluring. She passed a poster of
                            Illustrations, with the name of her story in
                    bright blue print, and Mary stood still and read it over and over again with a
                    quickened pulse, until she was pushed aside by the tide of human beings eddying
                    along the street. But at present, she recollected, she had to find
                            The Fan.
                After many inquiries, Mary found that the office was located in a huge building
                    in one of the queer little squares out of Fleet Street, and that it was only one
                    of many magazines and newspapers published by the same firm.
                It proved to be a little world in itself, this vast bee-hive, for the printing,
                    publishing, and editing of some dozen
                    magazines and journals were all conducted on the premises. There was a deafening
                    whirr of machinery which reminded the girl vaguely of international exhibitions,
                    and at every turn she saw an editor's room, with the name of the journal printed
                    in fat, assertive black type. She was wafted down long corridors of frosted
                    glass—frosted glass, it seemed to Mary, was inseparably connected with
                    journalism—until she was shown into a small room containing a bare, mahogany
                    table, three chairs, and a framed lithograph of a young person in pink muslin,
                    ogling the spectator over a diaphanous fan.
                ‘The editor,’ said the man in a kind of commissionaire's uniform, who accompanied
                    her, ‘the editor is engaged on business, but will you kindly wait?’
                And Mary waited. In the next room she could hear, in a muffled way, the voices of
                    that functionary and his visitor. The business, it would seem, on which they
                    were engaged was of a somewhat hilarious nature, for frequent guffaws of
                    laughter reached her, and there was an unmistakable odour of cigarettes. Ten
                    minutes, fifteen minutes, twenty minutes went slowly by. The murmur of voices,
                    the baritone laughter in the next room, continued to be audible. At last, when
                    Mary had finally made up her mind to go, the
                    door was flung open, and a young man with a high colour stumbled out.
                ‘Ta-ta, old chap. Thanks, awfully. See you at the club to night,’ and, bestowing
                    on Mary a prolonged stare, he disappeared down the long glass corridor.
                ‘Will you please come in?’ said a rather affected voice, and Mary, walking into
                    the editorial sanctum, found herself opposite a well-dressed,
                    supercilious-looking young man of thirty, a man who curiously resembled all the
                    young men whom she used to see in the Park on fine mornings.
                Something like a blush darkened his smooth cheeks as Mary entered, and the editor
                    of The Fan raised a pious prayer to the gods that
                    this apparently inexperienced girl had not heard the conversation which had been
                    going on for the last twenty minutes.
                ‘I am sorry to have kept you,’ he said lamely, glancing for the first time at the
                    card and letter, which had been waiting at his elbow on the table, ‘but you've
                    no idea what a fool that man is. He never told me that a lady was waiting to see
                    me.’
                ‘I dare say,’ replied Mary a little stiffly, ‘that you are dreadfully busy.’
                ‘Oh, as to that, of course, we're frightfully
                    “rushed”—especially just now, at the middle of the month. We come out, you see,
                    on the 23d. I'm most anxious, you see, to make The
                        Fan a success. I want it to be quite the smartest thing out,
                    and a real authority on dress and fashion. As to the dress part, I'm not afraid
                    of that. I do it all myself.’
                ‘Indeed?’ said Mary, to whom the young man who spends his life describing
                    petticoats was as yet an unknown entity. She felt vaguely uncomfortable as the
                    supercilious editor's eye dwelt upon her, not feeling sure that he would approve
                    of the shape of her sleeves, and being morally certain that he was by this time
                    aware that her gown was not lined with silk.
                ‘I came,’ said Mary, ‘to ask—to ask if you thought there was anything I could do
                    for The Fan.’
                The supercilious editor pursed up his lips and looked at Mary's sleeves. Her
                    name, it was obvious, carried no sort of weight in the office of
                            The Fan magazine.
                ‘The fact is, we are inundated with stuff which isn't any good to us. We are
                    refusing stuff every day. What we want wouldn't be in your line,
                    I'm afraid. The only thing I really think of starting,’ he announced, standing
                    on the hearthrug and twisting a neat moustache, ‘is a really good society
                    article. Only about smart people, don't you
                    know? We don't want what the other ladies' papers have got: “Mrs. Townley
                    Tompkins gave a most successful ball at her beautiful house in Lancaster Gate,
                    or any of those God-forsaken places. Lady Jane Ives, Lady Blaythewaite—those are
                    the sort of people. Really smart, don't you know, and the vieile souche as well. Now, I should have liked a
                    smartly written account of Lady Jane Ives's party the other night. Of course, I
                    knew lots of people there, but they haven't got the cacoëthes scribendi, don't you know?’
                ‘I think I could do you that, if you thought it interesting enough,’ said Mary,
                    ‘as I happened to be there.’
                ‘Oh, you were there?’ said the editor, with rising respect in his tone; and for
                    the first time looking at the girl with any interest, he added: ‘It's possible
                    we might arrange something; in fact, we might begin something this month. We
                    might manage an article for the next number—something smart, you know, and just
                    a wee bit malicious. We'll call the thing ‘Behind my Fan,’ and that'll give
                    plenty of scope. Don't be afraid, Miss Erle. Any gossip that hasn't got into the
                    papers, you know.’ ‘Lady Jane Ives, now, must be a very interesting
                    acquaintance,’ went on the editor, in deferential tones, ‘quite one of the women
                    of the day. I wonder if you could get her to
                    be interviewed for The Fan?’ he added, visibly
                    brightening.
                ‘I'll ask her,’ said Mary, smiling. ‘But I ought to tell you that I am not going
                    out much this season.’
                ‘Oh! that don't matter,’ said the editor hopefully. ‘What we want is somebody who
                    really knows the set. Little bits of gossip, don't you know, that
                    the ‘lady journalist’ can't possibly get hold of. Do you care to try?’
                ‘I think I will.’
                ‘We can do with three columns a month. The firm pays a guinea a column. When may
                    I have the pleasure of seeing your first article? It would appear next month if
                    you let us have it by the 20th. Thanks awfully. Good-day.’
                And the stuffy, jolting omnibus conveyed back to Bulstrode Street a young woman
                    who was conscious neither of hunger, fatigue, nor rattling stones. This was a
                    beginning! Her pocket, in which lay the cheque for two pounds two shillings, had
                    suddenly acquired a special importance. She had earned that money herself; it
                    was the output of her brain. Secretly she would like to telegraph to Vincent,
                    who was now in New Zealand, but she felt the impulse was a silly one. She would
                    write by the next mail.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XI
                THE WOMAN WAITS
                ‘SAPRISTI!’ cried Alison, ‘he's come back, you say? I think I shall
                    insist on the marriage coming off at once.’
                ‘No, you won't,’ answered Mary, reddening, ‘because we've got to earn enough
                    between us to set up house.’
                ‘What a pity!’ rejoined the other girl. ‘I'm in the vein for weddings. I had an
                    interview yesterday with Evelina's baby's papa. Don't stare, you idiot. I've
                    been arranging a match.’
                It was a sultry day at the end of July, and the two girls sat in the dingy
                    lodgings in Bulstrode Street. Vincent Hemming had telegraphed from Liverpool; he
                    was to be in London that afternoon.
                ‘Alison! you don't mean to say you——?’
                ‘Certainly. I found the young man open to reason, especially when he comprehended
                    that I might be likely to give Evelina a small dot, though it took
                    some time to overcome his moral scruples——’
                
                ‘His moral scruples!’ ejaculated Mary.
                ‘My dear, you must know that the average man is, in theory, enamoured of virtue,
                    but in practice his devotion usually takes the form of insisting on that of his
                    female belongings——’
                ‘A vicarious offering to the gods,’ said Mary, ‘which it is to be hoped is
                    sometimes efficaciousl’
                ‘It's astonishing,’ said the elder girl thoughtfully, ‘what a lot of human nature
                    one sees down there in Whitechapel.’
                ‘More, I dare say, than in Mayfair.’
                ‘The wedding,’ observed Alison, ‘will come off in the autumn—I shall give the
                    bride away. You may come and look on if you like.’
                ‘Poor little Evelina,’ said Mary abstractedly.
                ‘Poor!’ laughed Alison. ‘What do you think she asked for when I told her she
                    might choose a wedding present? A white silk dress! She knew, she said, where
                    she could get one, second-hand, for twelve and sixpence, but what she held out
                    for most was a white tulle veil and a wreath of orange blossoms.’
                ‘The veil and the orange blossoms are quite pathetic,’ murmured Mary, getting up
                    and pushing the window wide open. There was a long silence, during which a large
                    bumble-bee swayed in and buzzed ponderously round the little room.
                ‘You ought now,’ said Alison, jumping up, ‘to
                    be getting into your most becoming dress, and a proper frame of mind in which to
                    receive so estimable a young man——’
                ‘Oh, don't go. It's so dreadful to wait, all alone. He can't be in London till
                    four o'clock, so I don't imagine I shall see him till six or seven, or perhaps
                    not till after dinner.’
                ‘Ah,’ said Alison Ives thoughtfully, ‘then you had better come with me. I'm going
                    to take a lot of poor girls over the National Gallery at three o'clock.’
                ‘Oh, I can't. It's too far. And he might come while I was out.’
                ‘And considering,’ laughed Alison, ‘that you intend spending the rest of your
                    natural existence with Mr. Hemming, that would be nothing short of a
                    calamity.’
                ‘You are an unsympathetic demon, and you can be off to your East-end young
                    women,’ said Mary sternly.
                ‘Pooh,’ said Alison calmly, ‘I shall stay till the last moment, and give you the
                    benefit of my mature advice. It's wonderful,’ she added, snatching up her big
                    Gainsborough hat and putting it on at an extraordinary angle, ‘how kind I am to
                    young people. I believe I've been making a mistake all this time. I ought to
                    have been the mother of six boys—for Heaven forbid that I should bring another
                    woman into the world.’
                
                ‘You would have been bored to death with them,’ said Mary.
                ‘Nonsense, depend upon it, I should have been a pattern parent. All we people
                    make the mistake of doing everything more or less badly. Here are you,’ she
                    continued, taking up with an impatient gesture a small book bound in red calico,
                    which was lying on the table, ‘reading a ninepenny translation of Epictetus,
                    when I'll be bound you can't make a pudding properly without it “catching”—or
                    whatever the cook calls it.’
                ‘I know I can't; but it's eccentric—to say the least of it,’ rejoined Mary, ‘for
                    a young woman like you to want to make puddings at all.’
                ‘I suppose it is an affectation,’ said Alison candidly, fastening her velvet
                    strings firmly with a diamond scorpion, ‘but it's so much more amusing than
                    going to balls. Oh, those old club hacks who go out to exercise their livers,
                    and the boys who dance till they stream with perspiration, because they want to
                    make acquaintances—in society.’
                ‘It's doubtfully alluring—the London ball of to-day,’ assented Mary, ‘but why
                    go?’
                ‘I don't,’ said Alison, ‘it's what I remember out of the dim past. Well,
                    good-bye, I'm off to explain Mantegna to my girls. I only hope they won't all come in ostrich feathers.
                    Your most becoming gown, remember, and your most angelic manners, please. This
                    is the supreme moment, remember.’
                After she had gone, she put her head in at the door to say—
                ‘That baby of Evelina's makes my joy. You never saw such a dumpling, and it
                    doesn't cry now. I have it to spend the day at the flat, and it crawls all over
                    me, and sticks its fat little fists in my eye.’
                When the street door had finally closed, Mary felt horribly restless. After much
                    inward debate, she put on her hat and went out. Secretly, she would have liked
                    to go to Euston to meet her lover, but he had said nothing about it, and she
                    thought it best to wait. So she walked to the Regent's Park, and there, in the
                    trim flower-garden, where the avenue of chestnuts was making long shadows on the
                    neatly-swept paths, Mary sat down and waited. It was high midsummer now; there
                    was a velvety smoothness on the trim lawns, the green light filtered through a
                    canopy of broad chestnut leaves, and the beds were odorous with heliotrope,
                    purple with pansies, and aglow with geraniums. Half past four! Now perhaps the
                    train was thundering into Euston Station. Vincent Hemming was getting out of his compartment, collecting his manifold
                    baggage, hailing a cab. London was the richer for one important person; London
                    contained her lover!
                The people who haunt the parks on fine afternoons were there as usual, but to-day
                    they seized her imagination. There was a young woman with restless eyes and a
                    hard mouth, keeping a rendezvous with a lover who had not yet appeared; a nurse
                    or two with a swarm of children from the surrounding Georgian terraces, racing
                    and squealing and looking like white rabbits with their pink noses and creamy
                    boots, while, erect and military, the figure of a park-keeper in his gilt
                    buttons and his peaked cap gave an official air to the trim paths.
                Yes, he was driving now to his chambers in the Temple; passing, actually rolling
                    on London streets, in a London cab, not so very far from where she sat. It
                    seemed incredible, and yet it was true. The only drawback to her happiness was
                    Jimmie, for her brother was back for the holidays, and being as yet unaware of
                    the understanding between them, he would be sure to insist on being there when
                    Vincent came. Mary could not picture the scene with a third person.
                Over yonder was the girl with the hard mouth, still pacing up and down alone.
                        Mary felt drawn towards her; she would
                    like to have gone up and said something kind.
                ‘If that tawdry-looking girl could write down her story,’ thought Mary, as she
                    passed her, ‘we should have another masterpiece! It is because they suffer so
                    that women have written supremely good fiction.’
                Everything, to-day, seemed imprinted on her brain; the delicate arrangement of
                    mauves and lilacs in the distant flower-beds; the foolish faces of the nurses
                    bent over a penny novelette as they pushed forward their perambulators; but
                    above all, the figure of the girl with the hard mouth, who was still looking
                    from right to left, for some one who did not appear. She had sat down on a green
                    bench opposite, her shabby boots stuck hopelessly out. Her hair was untidy; in
                    her hat was a dirty pink-bow; her dark stuff gown was frayed at the edge. The
                    woman in her was dead; she was past the stage of caring about her appearance.
                    ‘Poor girl,’ thought Mary, ‘she is waiting, too, for her lover. But
                    he will not come to-day; she didn't expect it, really, when she came out.’ No,
                    he had not come, and there was something in her blank eyes—eyes which seemed to
                    look into an abyss, which suggested the thought that in all human probability he
                    never would.
                By-and-by the nurses began to put by their
                    tatting and gather their chattering, swooping broods together. Perambulators
                    were pushed forward on the creaking gravel, and little white boots and gaiters
                    were seen trotting in the direction of the shining, columned terraces. A clock
                    on a neighbouring church struck five.
                And now, suddenly, Mary began to hurry. It was five o'clock! If the express had
                    been punctual, Vincent might be at his chambers by this. Supposing he came, and
                    she were out? Her heart thumping at the thought, she walked rapidly through the
                    gates. She wanted to buy some flowers, too; lots of flowers, to disguise the
                    terrible ugliness of those lodgings. At a florist's she bought an armful of
                    roses, peonies, and tiger-lilies; and then she almost ran home to Bulstrode
                    Street. There were the flowers to arrange, and she would like to change her
                    gown. Vincent didn't like black, she remembered; she would wear the little grey
                    dress she had just had made, and fasten some roses in her belt. At home, in the
                    drawing-room, the interior in which she was so soon to receive her lover was not
                    enticing. The tea-cups—common thick-lipped earthenware—were laid out on a
                    battered tin tray; a small glass jug contained a bluish white fluid, and a
                    moulded glass basin was half filled with dubious looking lumps of sugar. And to
                    complete the picture, Jimmie had apparently
                    taken a seat for the afternoon at the table, and only raised his head from a
                    novel to clamour for his tea.
                ‘Presently, dear, presently,’ said Mary, hastily filling all the available bowls
                    and vases with flowers. What could she do with the boy? she wondered, as she ran
                    into her bedroom, put on the grey gown, and pinned some roses at her waist.
                ‘I say, dearest,’ said Jimmie, banging at the door, ‘aren't we ever going to have
                    tea? Or are you waiting for old Hemming?’
                ‘Oh, no,’ said Mary faintly, still pondering what she could do with her young
                    brother. ‘Tell them to bring up the tea.’
                It was past six now; he probably would come after dinner. That would be very nice
                    —they would have a beautiful long evening. The rooms, too, did not look quite so
                    dreadful at night. She had brought a small copper lamp, with a rose-coloured
                    shade, in expectation of Vincent's arrival, so that those dreadful milky glass
                    gas-globes would not have to be lighted. And then she had an idea. It was an
                    extravagance which she would not have permitted herself, but then——
                ‘Jimmie!’ she called out, as she stood at the looking-glass, her hands trembling
                    as she tried to fasten the over-blown roses at her waist, while one by one the petals fell away and left a bare
                    stalk.
                ‘Yes, dearest.’
                ‘Would you like, for a treat, to go to the theatre to-night? There's that piece
                    still at Drury Lane with the real railway-engine in it, and you might go with
                    Smith major, you know.’ She opened a drawer and took out her purse. There were
                    ten shillings left out of her last cheque. Four shillings had been spent on
                    flowers, but there was enough still to send the two boys to the theatre.
                ‘Here's six shillings, and mind you're back at half-past eleven.’
                And Jimmie was nothing loth. He insisted, however, on having fried eggs and bacon
                    with his tea, and Mary resolved, when the sitting-room was finally saturated
                    with the odour of fried fat, that she would say she was not at home if Vincent
                    called. But at last the room was aired, and the house quiet again. Jimmie had
                    finally disappeared.
                The twilight of a summer evening settled on the dingy room. Mary paced the floor,
                    after crowding all her flowers on to the centre table, and opening the two
                    windows wide to let in the sultry evening air. When she neared the window she
                    listened intently for the sound of cab-wheels, or for that of on-coming
                        footsteps. Yes, there were
                    footsteps—footsteps coming to the door. There was an agitated ring of the bell,
                    and some one hurrying up the stairs. Mary got up from her chair, and stood with
                    tightly-clasped hands, looking vaguely down at the faded true-lovers' knots
                    which meandered with foolish reiteration over the carpet. The door opened. It
                    was Jimmie.
                ‘Oh, I say, dearest, I quite forgot the six shillings you gave me! Where can I
                    have left them?’ And then a hunt began for the missing money. Presently it was
                    found, and Jimmie had gone for the evening.
                It was very hot; stuffy with the damp, vitiated air of a London night verging on
                    August. Few people passed. Bulstrode Street is a quiet thoroughfare. Once, about
                    eight o'clock, cab-wheels were audible, and then Mary shrank into the farthest
                    corner of the room, clasping her little hands tight, and listening for the sound
                    of the door-bell and that well-known step on the stair. But neither came. The
                    cab drove on, having emptied its fare two doors off. It was nine o'clock
                    now.
                ‘I am so lonely, so tired,’ thought the girl. ‘I wish he would come. I want to
                    talk to some one who cares for me, to get my little share of happiness. I am so
                    tired of drawing the Discobolus, of writing for The
                        Fan. I wonder if any man
                    alive really knows how dreadful it is to be a woman, and to have to sit down,
                    and fold your hands, and wait?’
                Half-past nine now. Still he might come. He would have dined at his club, in all
                    probability, and he would come on, after exchanging gossip with the men he would
                    meet. Mary lighted the copper lamp now, and placed the pink shade over it. How
                    pretty the flowers looked! Only the roses at her belt were faded. Going into the
                    next room, she pinned in a fresh bunch. A quarter to ten? He would hardly come
                    now; he always had a nice eye to the proprieties. But his cab might have broken
                    down; he might have been detained at the club. The march up and down the room
                    continued. Mary never knew how much she walked that night. The long, empty hours
                    seemed interminable. But at last, in the still, sultry air, she could hear Big
                    Ben strike eleven. Oh, eleven! Then it was all over; she might as well take off
                    the pretty grey dress, unpin the bunch of roses.
                At half-past eleven Jimmie returned, full of the delights of the play.
                ‘Oh, I say, dearest, are you sitting up? I'm so jolly hungry, darling! Can't you
                    get me something to eat? It was sweet and dear of you to send me to the
                        theatre. But, I say, where's old Hemming?
                    Hasn't he been?’
                ‘I haven't seen anything of him,’ said Mary. ‘I suppose he was too tired to come
                    to-night.’
                And though she went to bed soon after, she lay with her eyes wide open, until the
                    grey dawn began to creep in behind the dingy white blind. Oddly enough, the face
                    of the girl she had seen in the Regent's Park rose up again and again. And yet
                    what had they in common?
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XII
                THE MAN RETURNS
                HEMMING was there now, sitting on the hard sofa opposite, very bronzed
                    since she had last seen him, but studiously correct in his town clothes and his
                    frothy white tie.
                At the first instant, when she had gone into the drawing-room to meet him, they
                    had stared at each other as if they were strangers. Then Vincent Hemming had
                    advanced to meet her with his unemotional smile, holding in his hand a new,
                    shiny hat, and a minute later it seemed natural enough to both of them that her
                    blonde head should be resting on the young man's shoulder, and that he should be
                    murmuring vague phrases which for once had nothing to do with the
                    enfranchisement of the women of the Anglo-Saxon race.
                Like all people who have been separated for a long time, they found little or
                    nothing to say.
                ‘And did you have a good passage across the Atlantic?’ asked Mary, when she had
                    made him sit on the hard little sofa, and she had taken a stiff, high chair some little way off, and was
                    looking at him with all her eyes. Was this neatly turned-out young man, in his
                    tightly-buttoned dog-skin gloves, the lover with whom she had corresponded all
                    these months and months? She felt strangely shy in the midst of her
                    happiness.
                ‘Fairly good. Yes. I may say it was a tolerably agreeable experience. There were
                    some pleasant people on board. And I was not troubled with sea-sickness.’
                ‘I'm glad you came back by way of the Canadian Pacific. And you went to
                    Ottawa—and Niagara—’ added Mary vaguely, as people always talk of places and
                    countries they have never seen. ‘And what is Niagara like?’
                ‘Niagara,’ said Hemming, with a certain solemnity, ‘Niagara is something like
                    London. The great falls, you know, are not beautiful; neither is London. But
                    they are, like London, a unique, a terrifying spectacle. The roar, the
                    immensity, the sense of a great power for ever driving forward; all these things
                    are identical. Some day, Niagara will have dried up, retreated, become a mere
                    dribble among waterfalls. Some day, London will be a handful of ruins.’
                ‘What an unpleasant idea! said Mary, laughing; ‘what dreadful things you always
                    think of!’ And then, with a childish, frank outburst, she crossed to the sofa, knelt down on the floor, and,
                    putting her two hands on his shoulders, she shook him gently.
                ‘Why didn't you come yesterday,’ she whispered. ‘You old silly, you stopped and
                    talked to somebody at the club, I suppose?’
                But Vincent did not hear. He had gathered her up in his arms, the little, pale
                    face, on which overwork had already told, the charming, childish mouth, with its
                    curved upper lip, the ruffled fair hair. There was a long silence.
                Presently Hemming sighed. Mary had almost forgotten her disappointment of
                    yesterday in the emotion of to-day. Men were like that, she thought. The horror
                    of waiting, waiting, and waiting did not occur to them. They never had to do it;
                    how could they know?
                ‘Dear, aren't you glad you're back?’ she asked, raising her head a little so that
                    the brown eyes and the gray eyes met.
                ‘Of course, of course,’ he muttered, glancing vaguely round the room; ‘but there
                    are so many things to be thought of’
                ‘Is that,’ said Mary, gently disengaging herself from his arms, ‘is that—why you
                    didn't come yesterday?’
                ‘My dear child, I had a thousand things to think of. I was obliged to see the
                    Colonial Secretary on my arrival in London. I had a confidential message of the highest importance from
                    the Governor-General of Canada.’ Vincent Hemming had assumed his most official
                    manner —a manner that Mary had always instinctively disliked.
                ‘Ah!’ she said, looking down at her belt, where the roses had dropped off one by
                    one yesterday, ‘I see.’
                ‘And afterwards some friends—some rather important people with whom I crossed
                    over—insisted on my joining them at the theatre. And for reasons which I need
                    not go into now, I thought it better to go,’
                ‘And did you amuse yourself? Was it a good piece?’ said the girl frigidly. ‘I
                    should not like to think you had been bored—the first night of your
                    home-coming.’
                He looked at her in slight surprise. It was so rarely she said anything
                    sarcastic.
                ‘What's the matter with you, little one? You look fatigued. I am afraid this
                    sultry weather is too much for you; you must go away. We must get the roses back
                    to those pale cheeks,’ he said in his old-fashioned way.
                ‘Oh, I can't go away. I'm hard at work. You don't know how hard I've worked. I
                    didn't mind, you know. It was all for you, so that we—we—’ She almost broke
                    down, covering her face with her bloodless, nervous hands.
                
                ‘You are unstrung, overwrought,’ said Hemming, in his kind voice—a voice which
                    always meant twice as much as he intended to say. He touched her wrist
                    tentatively. ‘Don't, little woman, don't.’
                ‘Oh, it's nothing. I'm—I'm a little over-tired. I didn't sleep last night. Please
                    don't bother about me; perhaps it's the weather. You see I don't remember,’ she
                    added, ‘ever being in London so late in the summer. Yes, I daresay it's
                    that.’
                ‘No doubt the sultriness of the weather may have a good deal to do with your
                    indisposition. Poor little Mary! You must try change of air.’
                ‘I don't know where,’ said Mary, with a little shrug. ‘If I went to Aunt Julia's
                    at Bournemouth, I should have to sleep in a bedroom hung with framed photographs
                    of tombs, and talk to ritualistic curates——’
                ‘But Lady Jane Ives? She will be sure to want you at Ives Court.’
                ‘They're going to Aix on Monday, and later on the house will be full. It would
                    mean many more frocks and much higher spirits than I've got just now. But we'll
                    go down and have long days in the country together, won't we? she asked
                    wistfully, twisting with two white fingers one of the buttons on his coat.
                    ‘There's the river—the river at Goring or Marlowe, Vincent, so cool, and green, and quiet on a week-day!
                    Or the Surrey Hills, places that are mauve with heather; and pine-woods,
                    beautiful, solemn pine-woods—don't you remember—like the place where we went the
                    day before you sailed? We'll go there again, won't we?’
                ‘Y—es, I hope so, if possible,’ said Hemming; ‘but for the next week or two I am
                    afraid I shall be a good deal engaged.’
                There was a silence which Mary, as hostess, did her best to break. She did not
                    look at him in the eyes any more during his visit. It was almost as if he had
                    struck her. There was a sort of ball in her throat. Her cheeks had got hot;
                    there was colour enough in them now, and her hands shook as she poured out the
                    tea which the maid-of-all-work had brought in. But she must not look as if she
                    cared. A woman—especially in her own house—should always smile. It was on that
                    acquiescent feminine smile that the whole fabric of civilisation rested. And for
                    the next half-hour, as Vincent Hemming discoursed of the unusual opportunities
                    he had enjoyed in Calcutta, in Sydney, and in Ottawa of studying the different
                    systems of government which obtained in various parts of the British Empire,
                    Mary was a model hostess.
                And soon, too, he was gone. Afterwards, she remembered, he had spoken of seeing
                    her again very soon, as he kissed her cheek at
                    the door—of taking her and Jimmie to the theatre. And then his close-cropped
                    greyish hair, the back of his shining collar, and his well-cut frock coat, were
                    seen descending the dingy staircase.
                And that was all. The meeting for which she had longed with all the ardour of a
                    frank, loyal, and direct nature, had come and was over. She went into the little
                    dreary bedroom and threw herself on the narrow bed. No tears came. She lay
                    blankly staring at the blue and green kingfisher, with the text in large German
                    letters, ‘Come unto Me all ye that are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.’
                    She wondered, vaguely, what connection there was between a kingfisher and that
                    exquisitely touching phrase. And then she remembered how her Aunt Julia, from
                    the seclusion of her gabled Bournemouth villa, had once written her a long
                    letter foreshadowing, with the perverse joy of the righteous, the day when her
                    niece Mary would infallibly need the consolations of religion. Her Aunt Julia
                    had spoken of her as ‘hardened.’ Well, that exactly described her state of mind.
                    Mary felt not only hardened, but petrified. What did it all mean? He was hers,
                    was he not, the man who had just left her? All her thoughts turned naturally to
                    him; she was incapable now of comprehending a life which they were not to share together. She was perfectly aware
                    of his little poses, his not altogether amiable peculiarities, but she had got
                    to the stage when they made no difference. A French wit has it that ‘C'est le ridicule qui tue,’ an aphorism which may
                    be true of politics, fashions, or art, but which, alack! does not apply to the
                    vagaries of human passion.
                Vincent Hemming, once outside the door, felt in his breast-pocket for his cigar
                    case, carefully chose a promising cigar, and thrust it firmly between his teeth
                    while he stopped in a door-way to strike a match. His sensations that afternoon
                    were mixed. It had been, he reminded himself, delightful to see little Mary
                    again. If only he had not been so imprudent as to speak before he went away. And
                    yet what could he do? Curiously enough, the girl appealed to the sensuous side
                    of his nature. Her slight, thin shoulders, her long, delicate throat, the rather
                    pathetic curve of her jaw, belonged to the type of beauty he preferred. The
                    nervous energy, which was her special characteristic, touched, while it troubled
                    him. As on the day that he asked her to wait for him, he always, whatever she
                    announced her intention of doing, felt constrained to interfere. He admired her
                    pluck, her perseverance, her dogged determination to get on, her fine
                    appreciation of all that was best in
                    literature and art. ‘She's a little girl in a thousand,’ he said to himself,
                    ‘and not at all likely to make unpleasantness if things become impossible. Not
                    that one would dream of doing anything but what was best for her; but she's
                    young—she may see some one she likes better. By Jove! she ought to make a really
                    good match.’ And in his modesty Mr. Hemming allowed himself to caress this idea.
                    He pictured her, in many diamonds, at the head of a long dinner-table—a table
                    scintillating with silver and crimson with roses, with a vague, undefined
                    husband at the other end. And he, Vincent, sat by her side, and she—his little
                    Mary—looked at him, as he talked, with her emotional eyes, and murmured pretty,
                    sympathetic phrases with her deliciously curved lips. ‘Who knows?’ he muttered,
                    throwing away the end of his cigar, ‘odder things have happened.’
                And then he went over his year of travel as he strolled down Regent Street on his
                    way to call at the Métropole. Everything, from the very beginning, had gone off
                    smoothly. He had enjoyed it from first to last. His letters of introduction—he
                    had had excellent letters, he reminded himself—had brought him in touch with all
                    the important men in India and the colonies. He had ample material for a
                        book. The thing, it was true, had been
                    somewhat overdone, but then he was sure of his style; the book would not be
                    written after the manner of the globe-trotting M.P. And yet, by the time the
                    volumes were out, he, too, would be among England's legislators. (It was typical
                    of Hemming that he always thought of the hedge-row member of parliament as a
                    ‘legislator.’) He had quite made up his mind about that. Marriage might well be
                    postponed a year or two, but for a man to have any real influence on politics,
                    he must be in the House. As luck would have it, the member for Northborough was
                    known to be seriously ill, a lingering illness which must terminate fatally, and
                    the party were already making arrangments for contesting the seat. He had reason
                    to know that his candidature would be highly appreciated by the Conservatives.
                    All that was wanted were funds.
                And it was then that his mind ran back to his meeting with his new friends. He
                    had found them first, Mr., Mrs., and Miss Violet Higgins, of Northborough,
                    Lancashire, engaged in a protracted quarrel with the black porter in a train
                    bound New York-wards from Niagara. The Higgins family had wished to have the
                    windows of the long compartment opened, but the black porter, having no per- sonal objection to tropical heat, had
                    insisted on shutting every aperture. Finally, Vincent had effected a compromise,
                    and the perspiring mayor and mayoress of Northborough had been, he thought,
                    somewhat unduly thankful. The daughter, a young lady with beady eyes, a high
                    colour and a complete absence of chin, had watched him all the rest of the
                    journey with extreme interest. He had not liked her appearance or her manners;
                    her clothes were trimmed all over with gold braid, and she looked unnecessarily
                    conscious on being addressed; but this first aversion had worn off during the
                    seven days on the steamer, for they met again on the wharf at New York, in the
                    rush and bustle of embarkation. The father, a manufacturer of the staunchest
                    Tory principles, took a curious fancy to the young man. Vincent remembered how
                    impressed the Mayor of Northborough had been when he found out that this was
                    ‘young Hemming,’ the son of the late cabinet minister. How confidential he had
                    got, exercising with him on the summer nights; how easily the parents had
                    surrendered Miss Violet to his care did that young lady evince a desire to pace
                    the hurricane deck. Their wealth was abundant, but not ostentatious, like that
                    of the Chicago pork-packers' wives and daughters who graced the steamer with
                    their presence. Violet was their only child,
                    and Elijah Higgins took occasion, one night when the smoking-room was empty,
                    save for a select party of San Franciscans who were playing poker and emitting
                    fantastic oaths in the midst of a cloud of smoke in a distant corner, to mention
                    that he was prepared to settle a considerable fortune on his daughter if she
                    chose a husband of whom he approved. Yes, old Higgins was inclined to be
                    friendly. He had offered to be president of his committee should he think of
                    standing for Northborough; he had talked of heading a subscription to defray
                    Vincent's election expenses. He thought, on the whole, he should accept their
                    invitation to run up north and look around him at his future constituents. One
                    couldn't put things in motion too soon, he told himself, as he crossed Trafalgar
                    Square, and stepped down Northumberland Avenue to the Métropole. Miss Violet had
                    had a headache, the night before, at the theatre; it would only be civil to go
                    and ask how she was. He had an idea they expected him, and so, it appeared, they
                    did. They not only expected him, but they expected him to stop to dinner.
                The next day Mary received a note from Vincent, to the effect that he was running
                    up north on parliamentary business, but that he hoped to see her very soon. The postscript was typical of the man: ‘I rejoice
                    to think that you are continuing your literary and artistic studies with your
                    usual courage and energy. Only I implore you to consider your health, mental and
                    physical. You tell me you are writing stories now—love stories, I presume.
                    Remember that work which entails a drain on both the imagination and the
                    feelings is more exhausting than you perhaps imagine.’
                A month later, Vincent was still at Northborough, and Mary, whose drawing for the
                    Academy had again been refused, was working, all through the dog-days, at her
                    new profession of journalist.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XIII
                THE APOTHEOSIS OF PERRY JACKSON
                IT was a bright October morning, and the light of mid-day fell
                    searchingly on the pictures in their garish new frames. Scotch mountain streams,
                    eastern bazaars, young ladies reading love-letters, fishermen mending nets, ran
                    promiscuously up the walls to the very cornice, or modestly hung on a level with
                    the boots of the spectator. Everywhere was the obvious, the threadbare, the
                        banal; everywhere there was a frank appeal to the Philistinism
                    of the picture-buying public. It was press day at the galleries of the Society
                    of United Artists—the Benighted Artists, as they were called at a certain club
                    consecrated to the fine arts—so that, for once, there was a sprinkling of people
                    moving about the polished parquet floor. Indeed, in a distant room there was
                    even a small crowd; but that, it appeared, was due to the fact that a buffet,
                    spread with a York ham, a magnificent display of bath buns, and several
                    decanters of fiery-looking sherry, presided over by a young lady with arch manners and pendant ear-rings, had been provided to
                    seduce the austere journalist. Sounds of hilarity, as well as whiffs of tobacco
                    smoke, frequently penetrated to the large room where Mary Erle was taking notes.
                    Shaggy-looking men, with wide-awake hats and Inverness capes of dubious
                    freshness, strolled in twos out of the luncheon room, lit a cigar, took a seat
                    on the red velvet divan in the middle of the room, making incongruous figures
                    enough as they rested under the fronds of a giant palm, and fell to talking
                    Fleet Street, until one or the other, producing a watch, hastily rose and
                    shuffled downstairs. These curious proceedings on the part of a certain portion
                    of the press aroused some astonishment in Mary. The scene was as new to her as
                    the work; for she had only taken the art critic's place on the
                            Comet during the temporary illness of that
                    functionary.
                So she walked slowly, conscientiously round the room, stopping at every picture
                    that she could possibly mention in her article, and stopping, too, before
                    pictures which an editorial hint had advised her she would have to mention
                    whether she liked them or no. Yonder was a yellow and blue ‘Rome from the
                    Pincian Hill,’ by a man with whom, she remembered, her editor constantly dined;
                    while close beside it was a portrait of Mr.
                    Bosanquet-Barry himself, by a lady more celebrated for her charms than her
                    talent. She must find, of course, some phrase which might encourage the fair
                    artist to go on painting editors' portraits. Marking with a pencil the titles of
                    these works of art, she absolved her conscience by making some elaborate notes
                    about a clever little picture by an unknown man, which was hanging near the
                    floor, an effect of the Strand on a rainy day. Mary had to kneel on the floor to
                    see it, and as she rose, her eyes were on a level with a tolerably large canvas,
                    hung in the place of honour. The scene represented Trafalgar Square by
                    moonlight, with a young woman of superhuman beauty wrapped in a threadbare
                    shawl, huddled in the shadow of one of the lions. In a passing brougham was seen
                    the profile of another girl, painted, bedizened, supercilious.
                ‘Two Sisters, by Perry Jackson, A.R.A.,’ said Mary,
                    consulting the catalogue. ‘I thought so.’
                ‘How do you do, Miss Erle?’ said a voice—a voice which she had not heard for many
                    months, and, turning, she saw that the painter of the picture was taking off his
                    hat, and blushing a bright pink as he advanced to meet her. She noticed, with
                    amused surprise, that he was dressed in the height of the fashion, and wore a
                    pink carnation in his button-hole. His shock
                    head, too, was closely cropped now, but as there was still no trace of hair on
                    his face, he had, as of old, the look of a grown-up London street-boy.
                ‘If this isn't a sight for sore eyes!’ declared Perry gallantly. ‘Why I haven't
                    seen you to speak to for ages—not since the old days at the Central London.’
                ‘No,’ said Mary, ‘and you have become famous since then! I must congratulate you
                    on your election to the Royal Academy.’
                ‘Oh, it don't mean much—except in the £s.d. line, you know,’ said Perry,
                    modestly. ‘But I told you I'd do it, didn't I? You remember The
                            Time of Roses? That was what did the trick, the girls and
                    the roses. Agnew bought it, sold thousands of engravings— especially in
                    Australia. Australia, you know, is like England—only more so. And in America,
                    too. I'm told that in America they give away an autogravure of that picture with
                    every pound of Scourer's Soap and every bottle of Parkins' Pain-killer.’
                ‘America is a wonderful country,’ said Mary gravely.
                ‘Of course,’ continued Perry, ‘you saw the picture in the Academy. Sold for two
                    thousand pounds at the private view. What fetches the public is a long price. ‘I
                    hope,’ he added wistfully, ‘that you'll come and see my studio. I'm down Kensington way now—all among the Royal
                    Academicians.’
                ‘I shall certainly come,’ said Mary.
                ‘Oh, when?’ demanded Mr. Jackson with an unmistakable show of eagerness. ‘I'm in
                    old Madder's house, the big red one with the white balconies. He couldn't keep
                    it up, poor old chap. Would go on doing historical pictures: ‘After Naseby,’
                    ‘Charles II. hiding in the oak’ and all that sort of thing, and the public won't
                    have him at any price.’
                ‘Those things were in fashion,’ replied Mary, ‘when he was young. There is
                    something pathetic in his clinging to them, like one or two old ladies in
                    society, who still wear the ringlets and berthas of 1850.’
                ‘Well, it may be pathetic,’ said Perry, staring in a somewhat bewildered way,
                    ‘but, anyhow, it don't pay. Poor old Madder was glad to get rid of the house as
                    it stands; so I took it just as it was: tapestries, Venetian mantelpieces, suits
                    of armour, and all the rest of it.’
                ‘And do your—your people live with you?’ said Mary vaguely, remembering the old
                    couple in the Hampstead Road upholsterer's shop.
                ‘Oh! no. They wouldn't care about it, you know. The old people like to come and
                    walk round the house. There's the Venetian drawing-room now, that rather takes
                    their fancy.’
                
                ‘It's rather a responsibility, isn't it, setting up such a big
                    establishment?’
                ‘Bless you,’ whispered the new Associate confidentially, ‘its all for show! I
                    live in a little room at the back; couldn't be bothered to sit down and eat my
                    mutton-chop in that great big gold and amber dining-room. Oh! no. Not for this
                    infant. But it fetches the public, no end. Why, I've had any amount of tip-top
                    swells there already. They come in and say, ‘What a perfectly
                    beautiful house, Mr. Jackson. What exquisite taste! Where
                        did you get that cabinet? I wonder now, if I were to ask
                        very prettily, if you could find time to paint my
                    portrait?’
                ‘I see,’ said Mary thoughtfully, ‘that you thoroughly understand your
                    public.’
                A loud gaffaw of laughter burst from the inner room. One of the United Artists,
                    emboldened by several glasses of the dubious-looking sherry, was playfully
                    disengaging the arch young lady's ear-ring from a stray lock of hair. A female
                    journalist, who wore a waterproof and a pince-nez, emerged hastily, with a
                    superior expression, through the doorway, and in the general hilarity which
                    followed this little scene several more glasses of sherry were hastily poured
                    out and a quantity of fresh cigars were lit. Artists and critics were seen
                        exchanging cards, and an atmosphere of
                    extreme sociability hung about the galleries. An old man with a white beard, who
                    had painted the interior of Cologne cathedral for forty years, was leading
                    affectionately by the arm the young gentleman who did the galleries for
                            The Easel, towards the room where his latest
                    contribution to the fine arts hung. A little group of critics had collected
                    round Perry 
                        Jackson's
                        Jackson s
                     canvas. It was easy to see that they considered it the picture of the
                    exhibition. A vague official crossed the room and bending down, whispered
                    confidentially:
                ‘May I suggest your taking some slight refreshment? It is all in the next
                    room.’
                ‘Thank you,’ said Mary, in her stiffest manner. ‘I lunched before I came
                    out.’
                There was an awkward pause, which Perry Jackson hastened to break.
                ‘And you—what are you doing now, Miss Erle? I've seen your stories in
                            Illustrations—though I haven't much time for
                    reading myself. Why, you must be making “a pile.”’
                ‘My income varies,’ said Mary, smiling a little pathetically. ‘It sometimes
                    exceeds thirty-six pounds a year.’
                ‘Great Scott!’ ejaculated Perry, ‘I'm glad I don't write.’
                ‘One writes for the fun of it, I suppose,’ said
                    Mary. ‘Why—I 've even thought of writing a realistic novel!’
                ‘Oh! When will it be published?’ asked the young man.
                ‘It won't ever be published,’ answered the girl. ‘It would be a bit of real life;
                    it would have twenty-seven years of actual experience in it.’
                ‘And so you haven't written it?’ he asked quickly.
                ‘No. My idea was too sad—too painful, all the publishers said. It wouldn't have
                    pleased the British public. But I have been given a commission to do a
                    three-volume novel on the old lines—a ball in the first volume; a picnic and a
                    parting in the second; and an elopement, which must, of course, be prevented at
                    the last moment by the opportune death (in a hospital) of the wife, or the
                    husband—I forget which it is to be—in the last.’
                ‘I dare say it will be ripping good,’ said Perry, optimistically.
                ‘I am quite sure it will be dreadful,’ said Mary; ‘but then I can't afford to say
                    no. I've got a big boy at Winchester, you know. Brothers are so expensive—they
                    want such a lot of neckties. And I dare say it doesn't matter much what one
                    writes. It will all be forgotten soon enough. I used to have my little ideas about what was artistic and so on; but
                    then, as you say, one must think of the public,’ she added, rather
                    dismally, as her eye ran along the walls covered with smooth views of Rome, of
                    the Thames at Wargrave, impossible fisher-girls, and treacly sunsets. She was
                    surprised at herself for talking so openly to this young man whom she had not
                    seen for so long; but there was a fund of frankness and kindliness under Mr.
                    Perry Jackson's somewhat unattractive manners which was difficult to resist. He
                    was so perfectly candid himself that few people were ever anything but frank in
                    return.
                ‘Why, of course you must,’ replied the new Associate, resting a complacent eye on
                    his own canvas, which stood out in all its meretricious cleverness from the ruck
                    of commonplaces around. After all, Mary thought, there was merit in the picture—
                    the moonlight was broadly painted, there was real movement in the passing
                        coupé, and the girl's face inside, lit up
                    by the carriage lamps, was cleverly indicated.
                ‘By the by,’ said Mary, as she put up her note-book, ‘I suppose you've heard from
                            Illustrations? They're going to have an
                    article on you and your work, on your election to the Academy, you know. And I
                    think they rather want me to do it.’
                ‘I wish you would, Miss Erle,’ said Perry,
                    blushing. ‘You know pretty well all about me, don't you? And I 'll show you all
                    the work I've got now at my place, and—and will——’
                ‘In that case,’ said Mary, ‘I shall pay a state visit to your studio, and I shall
                    be highly critical, so don't attempt to disarm me with sherry and bath
                    buns.’
                ‘You looked then,’ cried Perry, ‘just like you used to when you first came to the
                    Central London, with a funny little twinkle in the tail of your eye.’
                ‘Did I?’ laughed Mary. ‘I don't feel like it. I believe I am about a hundred,’
                    she added, gathering up her note-book and parasol.
                ‘May I—I should like to see you home?’ said Perry gallantly, as they descended
                    the stairs together. ‘Where did you say you lived?’
                ‘In the same place, in Bulstrode Street. But I hope I shall not have to stay
                    there long. What I should like would be a little house somewhere in a suburb. A
                    little house with a garden,’ she added, as they passed out into the street, and
                    her thoughts flew back to Vincent Hemming,—to Vincent, whose letters during the
                    last few weeks had somehow grown rarer and rarer.
                And in the empty galleries the rays of an autumn sunset touched the threadbare
                    ‘Romes’ and ‘Wargraves’ and ‘Cornish Fisher-scenes’ with its delicate golden fingers. One by one the
                    pressmen and the lady journalists had slipped away. The odour of tobacco was
                    evaporating. Even the buffet was deserted, save for one elderly gentleman, who,
                    as he stood talking to the presiding nymph as she washed up the glasses, leaned
                    heavily with one elbow on the table and regarded the empty decanters with a
                    fixed smile.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XIV
                MARY GOES OUT ON A WET DAY
                ‘IT'S the deuce of a wet day, dearest,’ murmured Jimmie, strolling into
                    the sitting-room where Mary was writing. ‘Must you really go out?’
                ‘Yes, dear. Don't bother. I must go directly I have done this article on Perry
                    Jackson,’ answered the girl, with the irritated look of a person who is
                    interrupted in the middle of a train of thought—thought which was to be paid for
                    at the rate of threepence a line.
                ‘But you really don't look the thing, darling. By the by, does Sarah know I'm
                    down? or is there any breakfast about?’ added Jimmie, with his newly-acquired
                    drawl. He had shot up into a curiously pretty and precocious boy. It was
                    characteristic of him that he addressed his sister with as much politeness as
                    any of his numerous loves. Everybody agreed that Jimmie Erle was a delightful
                    boy. Laudatory adjectives abounded when his name was mentioned. Just now,
                    lounging in his cricketing blazer against the mantelpiece, he looked the picture of airy and irresponsible
                    youth.
                ‘As it's half-past-eleven,’ said Mary, laughing, blotting her MSS., and thrusting
                    it in an envelope, ‘Sarah may have some vague idea that you might be putting in
                    an appearance soon.
                ‘Dear, you're not cross with me?’
                ‘No, boy. Sleep as long as you can. I daresay you have to get up very early at
                    school.’
                ‘Oh, yes, sometimes,’ said Jimmie vaguely. But Mary had gone into her bedroom
                    now, and was rapidly doing up her hair, and putting on a waterproof. As she left
                    the room there was a brief vision of her brother helping himself to a third
                    serve of marmalade. The morning paper was at his elbow, and there was even a
                    surreptitious box of cigarettes on the chimney-piece.
                ‘I think,’ said Mary to herself as she clattered down the staircase in her
                    flapping waterproof, ‘that Jimmie will always be comfortable and happy. He will
                    never have to go out on a wet day.’
                In the underground railway it was at any rate dry, and Mary could rest her back,
                    tired with bending over a desk since nine o'clock. For a long time she had felt
                    wretchedly weak. The strain of writing was intense; there were whole mornings
                    which she spent staring at a sheet of white
                    paper on her desk. The only ideas she had, came at night, when she ought to have
                    been asleep, and after hours of insomnia she would get up and go to her desk
                    with every nerve in her body quivering. Mary told herself severely as the train
                    rattled on its way to Kensington that she could not afford to break down now.
                    She wanted so much to retain her position on the
                    Fan; if she gave it up for a month there would be a
                    dozen women ready to snatch it from her. Then, too, she was getting on with her
                    three-volume novel, which was to appear in
                        Illustrations, and there was the Perry Jackson
                    article for the same paper, over which she had taken a deal of trouble, and to
                    finish which she was on her way to the new Associate's house. And she smiled as
                    she thought how amused Vincent would be to hear that she had met Perry Jackson
                    again, and to learn that she had been chosen to write an article on
                            The Time of Roses, and the beautiful house
                    and studio in which the artist was now installed. And with the clarity of mental
                    vision which is one of the first signs of ripened powers, Mary contrasted the
                    two men: Perry with his ridiculous manners, his good heart, his stubborn
                    determination to get on, and his curiously keen knowledge of the public; Vincent
                    with his smooth, charming phrases, his good
                    looks, his vacillating nature.
                It was pouring rain as Mary stepped out of Kensington High Street Station. A
                    heavy, pinkish sky lowered overhead, and the trees of Holland House took on a
                    strange metallic hue in the changing stormy light. The end of the road was
                    swallowed up in mist and rain, and on the streaming pavement, which reflected
                    everything like a mirror, she could see a vision of her own umbrella hurrying
                    along through the storm. By the time she rang the bell of Mr. Perry Jackson's
                    imposing house her feet were soaked through.
                The door was opened by an elderly person in a bonnet profusely trimmed with
                    lilies of the valley, a lady whose dark stuff gown and bibulous eye contrasted
                    strangely enough with the spacious white hall, with its Persian tiles, its soft,
                    flame-coloured carpets, and its delicate, turquoise-tinted embroideries. Mr.
                    Jackson was at home, and the lilies of the valley, with a confidential, if
                    somewhat mysterious, air, shuffled along the discreet, silent passages, and
                    after a tentative knock at the door, ushered Mary into the studio.
                The subject of her article was at work on a large canvas when she was shown
                    in.
                In the vast studio, with its vista of polished
                    boards, its golden ceiling, and its tapestry-hung walls, the artist made a
                    somewhat insignificant figure, as he stood on a step-ladder and reached up to
                    put in a piece of background. The gorgeous colouring of the great silent room
                    accentuated the paleness of his features. With his profile outlined against an
                    alcove of golden mosaics, he looked more than ever like a grown-up London
                    street-boy, who had found his way, by mistake, into some oriental palace
                    fashioned by superhuman hands. The wan, veiled light of a rainy day crept
                    through the great north window, and on a small outer studio of glass—destined
                    for out-of-door effects—the rain pattered monotonously. Palms and azaleas in
                    giant pots repeated the enchanting note of green which was visible through the
                    glass walls of the outer studio.
                The huge canvas at which he was at work represented a convent garden in the grey
                    crepuscule of a summer evening. The pale, pensive faces of young nuns, faces of
                    unnatural loveliness, with haunting eyes and flower-like mouths, shadowed by
                    wide blue headdresses, were seen bending over beds of white lilies, while here
                    and there a transparent hand was stretched to gather the passionless, immaculate
                    flowers. This picture, destined for next year's Academy, was to be called ‘The
                    Hour of Lilies.’ Mary was startled when she
                    looked at it. Only a short time ago she had suggested the subject to him. He
                    must have set to work at once, leaving everything else. The picture was already
                    blocked in.
                ‘Oh, I say, this is good of you,’ cried Perry, blushing crimson.
                Mary observed, with some annoyance, that he had lately taken to blushing at her
                    advent. It was ridiculous, for they had to see each other so often about the
                    article that they had become like old friends. And she always thought of him,
                    moreover, as the Perry Jackson of the Central London School of Art—a little man
                    with a shock head, and whose parents, moreover, sold cheap dining-room suites in
                    the Hampstead Road.
                ‘That thing must be at the office not later than to-morrow morning,’ said Mary,
                    sinking into the nearest chair and surveying her damp boots with solicitude.
                ‘And a fine mess they've made with that process-block of The Time of
                            Roses,’ said Perry, indignantly. ‘I'm blessed if you'd
                    know they were roses. Why, they might be—artichokes—or anything else.’
                ‘Well, we can't help that now,’ said Mary doggedly. ‘What I want to-day are just
                    the last touches for my article—something to make the thing literary, with a meaning, you see. I should
                    be glad to know, for instance,’ continued Mary, glancing round the walls with a
                    slight smile, ‘if you have a Message?’
                ‘What's that?’ asked Perry, putting a flat high light on the golden hair of a
                    novice.
                ‘I have never,’ said Mary, abstractedly, ‘been quite able to ascertain. But
                    nowadays most people—writers, painters, and so on—are supposed to have a Message
                    to deliver to their contemporaries. And I thought,’ she continued,
                    encouragingly, glancing at the canvasses around, at the feminine faces with
                    haunting eyes and flower-like mouths, ‘I thought perhaps you meant to insist, in
                    your art, on the cult of beauty, the pagan love of form, the delight, so to
                    speak, in a physically perfect existence?’
                Perry whistled thoughtfully.
                ‘Well,’ he said, after a pause, ‘I never thought about it like that. But you can
                    put it in that way if you like. I don't mind what you say about me;’ and then
                    with engaging candour he added: ‘All I want to do is to make the thing pay.’
                ‘But, dear Mr. Jackson, it evidently does pay,’ urged Mary, laughing; ‘here you
                    are, “arrived,” with poor Mr. Madder's beautiful house and studio all to
                    yourself.’
                ‘Yes,’ said Perry, looking at her curiously,
                    with a side-ways glance, ‘all to myself. There was a lady here yesterday,’ he
                    continued with a short laugh, ‘who came to interview me for an evening paper,
                    and what do you think she asked me? If I was married—or going to get
                    married.’
                ‘And are you?’ asked Mary, in a politely interested tone; but something in his
                    look made her drop her eyes, and she turned away, asking two or three
                    embarrassed questions about a distant canvas on the wall.
                There was an awkward pause. Outside, the rain poured with a sibilant sound on the
                    roof of the glass studio, and the great trees drooped, soaked and soddened with
                    wet. It had grown dark in the big room. Perry had thrown down his palette, and
                    was standing gazing at her with a nervous, agitated look. Mary began to walk
                    round the studio, the drips from her umbrella making tiny pools of wet on the
                    polished parquet floor and on the eastern rugs.
                ‘I really ought to go,’ she said nervously, looking down; ‘your room is much too
                    gorgeous for a damp journalist.’
                He hurried forward imploringly, his sharp face whiter than ever with emotion, and
                    for years after she could not forget the painful scene which followed. She
                    remembered how she had been intensely conscious of her damp boots and of the little spots of water which her
                    dripping waterproof made on the polished floor, while Mr. Perry Jackson, who, in
                    moments of intense excitement, had an occasional difficulty with his aspirates,
                    proffered her his name and fortune, and the undisturbed possession of the
                    Venetian drawing-room, the amber and gold dining-room, and a Japanese boudoir on
                    the first floor.
                In the pause that followed there was no sound but that of the pitiless rain
                    hissing on the outer studio roof. Mary stood with her eyes fixed on the polished
                    boards. How could he have misunderstood her so—what could she say to soften it?
                    Didn't he know? Didn't he understand that it was impossible? Well, she must say
                    something. A strange misgiving forbade her to mention the name of Hemming, so
                    she spoke of vague things, of Jimmie, and of her profession.
                ‘Is—is—there any one else that you care for?’ stammered Perry forlornly, just as
                    she was going.
                ‘Yes,’ she said, but she did not meet his eyes, and as the word left her lips a
                    sharp foreboding seized her.
                In silence Perry Jackson clasped her hand at the door. Each felt that the
                    parting, the estrangement, was final.
                
                ‘Then you'll speak about that process-block to the editor?’ said Perry awkwardly,
                    just at the last, as she was crossing his threshold.
                ‘Oh, yes, of course. No doubt it can be touched up as you suggest. And that about
                    your ideal in art will make the article much stronger,’ she said in a loud,
                    would-be cheerful voice.
                Both these two young people were already thinking of their work. He saw her out,
                    and watched the slim figure, in its grey waterproof, disappear down the street
                    in the rain and mist.
                He would like to have saved her from the struggle of the woman who works, the
                    fret and fever, the dreary fight for existence. As he turned back down the clear
                    white passages, with their soft, glowing carpets, and his eye caught the masses
                    of transparent flowers within, the sumptuousness of his home struck him for the
                    first time as ludicrously incongruous.
                He strode back into his studio, and began searching among his portfolios for the
                    sketch of a girl's head which he wanted for the new picture. As evening fell, he
                    was still working.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XV
                A COMEDY IN REAL LIFE
                THE first act was over, the curtain was down again. A buzzing sound was
                    heard all over the theatre. Men were standing up in the stalls, raking the house
                    with their opera-glasses; the critics were seen exchanging significant looks and
                    portentous monosyllables; while here and there was visible the profile of a
                    pretty woman craning her neck to be seen speaking to some distant celebrity. The
                    house, viewed from above, was one compact mass of human beings, the clear, pale
                    dresses of the women making gay patches among the rows of black coats, white
                    shirt fronts, and slightly bald heads of the men.
                It was the first night of a new comedy at a modish theatre. In the private boxes
                    the little canvas doors opened continually, revealing a glimpse of the begilded
                    corridor darkened by the figure of a man in evening dress. In some of the boxes,
                    notably that of Lady Jane Ives, the door opened almost with the regularity of a machine, while a small procession of young
                    gentlemen sidled in and out.
                ‘All mother's “boys” will be here before the evening's over,’ whispered Alison to
                    Mary. ‘I don't know whether our brains will hold out.’ But Alison, for once,
                    made no effort to entertain them, for hardly had the curtain fallen when Dr.
                    Dunlop Strange, who was in the stalls, had taken the chair behind her, and had
                    begun telling her of a new medical discovery in which she was interested.
                For the moment, Mr. Bosanquet-Barry and Mr. Beaufort Flower were the other
                    occupants of the back chairs.
                ‘Dr. Strange, you've got to personally conduct us over the Whitechapel Hospital,’
                    said Alison, turning her beautiful, intelligent eyes upon him. ‘Miss Erle wants
                    to write something about a hospital, and you can explain the medical details to
                    her.’
                ‘When will you come?’ said the doctor eagerly.
                ‘Oh, arrange it with Mary,’ said Alison, laughing, ‘these young women who write
                    are always so busy. At present I'm one of the unemployed.’
                ‘Dear Lady Jane,’ objected Mr. Flower, patting the tuberoses in his coat, ‘you're
                    not going to allow them to go over one of those nasty hospitals? Why, you don't
                    know what they will catch, and I'm told the
                    language of the patients is quite ornamental.’
                ‘Allow them!’ ejaculated Lady Jane. ‘My dear Beaufy, if you had a grown-up
                    daughter, you'd find that you were “allowed” to do things or not as
                        she chose. That's why I'm so young,’ said the old woman with a
                    fat laugh. ‘It's because I go with the times. And as for that child Mary, I
                    can't refuse her anything. You see Alison and I both wanted to marry her poor
                    dear father. He was the most delightful creature that ever lived.’
                Mary, in her little white frock, was looking radiant. The morning papers had
                    announced the results of the by-election, and Vincent Hemming's name headed the
                    poll with a majority of forty-seven votes. In a day or two—perhaps even now—he
                    would be in town; he would have time for her. They would have leisure, perhaps,
                    to see a great deal of each other once more. She had become accustomed by now to
                    a certain vagueness about the future. But just to know that he was happy and
                    successful was enough for the moment.
                ‘Why are you looking so pretty to-night?’ whispered Beaufy to Mary, to whom he
                    had taken a perverse fancy because she generally snubbed him.
                ‘I never look pretty,’ said Mary calmly.
                
                ‘No? That's true. I've seen you,’ he added with engaging candour, ‘look
                    positively ugly. And other times, you know, you become radiantly lovely.’
                Meanwhile Lady Jane, showing a good deal of plump shoulder and bland bosom, in a
                    gown of excruciating red, was gently tapping Mr. Bosanquet-Barry with a carved
                    ivory fan, as he leaned over her chair.
                ‘Tell me who's here, you shocking creature. You know I can't see. And what are
                    you young men there for except to tell us the news?’
                ‘Oh, yes. Everybody's here. Lots of people have come up to town on purpose. No
                    end of smart people in the stalls. And who do you think is down there in the
                    omnibus box? Lady Blaythewaite, of all people. C'est
                        crâne, hein? Three days before she has to appear in the divorce
                    court. They say,’ he added, dropping his voice so that only Lady Jane could
                    hear, ‘they say it will be a cause célèbre.
                    She brings the case, of course, but she won't get it. They're betting on it at
                    the clubs.’
                ‘I see she's got that old woman, what's-her-name, who's so very proper, in the
                    box,’ said Lady Jane, as she surveyed the coming heroine of the divorce court
                    exhaustively with her tortoise-shell lorgnette. ‘How clever,’ she
                    continued in an approving tone: ‘white muslin,
                    and not a jewel. I was so fond of her poor mother. She was one of the first
                    women who smoked—I mean before people. She was a sort of Mrs. Norton. Lord
                    Houghton used to say she was one of the few women in society that he could ask
                    to his literary breakfasts. Her daughter hasn't inherited her wits.’
                ‘No, or she wouldn't have committed the fatal error of being found out,’ murmured
                    Mr. Bosanquet-Barry, and then he added, showing all his dazzling teeth in a
                    fatuous smile:
                ‘Lady Blay's a charming woman when she lets you know her. I assure you, she's
                    quite irresistible.’
                ‘I see all you young men are quite épris,’
                    replied Lady Jane, in her well-bred, indifferent tone. ‘Do you see much of
                    her?’
                ‘One's supposed to be able to find her at five. But very often she's out.’
                ‘Yes,’ put in Mr. Flower, in his waspish voice, ‘she says it's so effective to be
                    out occasionally. Isn't it malicious of her?’
                ‘My dear Beaufy, Lady Blaythewaite is quite good-looking enough to do these
                    things. Who are those curious-looking persons in the next box?’
                ‘Aren't they quite too delicious for words?’ cried that young gentleman, with
                    some animation. ‘They're my discovery. There's a man—a political man—in the stalls who knows. It's the mayor of Northborough,
                    the mayoress of Northborough, and the heiress-apparent. They're as rich—well, as
                    rich as Americans. Their name is Higgins. Aren't they nice? I never saw a
                    provincial mayor before. I wonder if he is red all over, like his face? I'm sure
                    he wears his chains of office under his clothes. Look at the mayoress' gown,
                    dear Lady Jane. Do you see, it has a small V at the throat, and elbow sleeves,
                    and you may swear it's high at the back! And the daughter—qu'elle est fagotée, mon Dieu, and with diamonds
                    put in all the wrong places. It is a relief to look at Lady Blay, who's got
                    hardly anything on at all.’
                And so these were the Higginses; Vincent's friends, whom he had picked up in
                    America, and who had got him returned to parliament. Mary gave one swift,
                    comprehensive glance at the daughter, taking in her under-bred face, with its
                    beady eyes and fretful mouth, her over-trimmed clothes and her uneasy attitude,
                    and remembering Hemming's fastidious tastes, she decided, with a little throb of
                    feminine exultation, that she had nothing to dread from Miss Violet Higgins.
                ‘Does anybody know what the play is about?’ asked the girl in a relieved voice,
                    in which there was even a note of happiness.
                    ‘It seems to me to be rubbish.’
                ‘Oh, I simply love these old-fashioned pieces, where all the poor
                    young men turn out to be baronets, and all the women marry their first loves.
                    They're so adorably untrue to life, don't you know?’opined Beaufy. ‘One
                        wants that sort of thing in a pessimistic age. Of course
                    Realism and that sort of thing amuses me, but I don't really care for it.’
                ‘But that's very ungrateful of you,’ said Alison, turning suddenly round. Dr.
                    Dunlop Strange had caught sight of Lady Blaythewaite in the box opposite, and
                    his eyes seemed riveted on her exquisite face. Somehow the fact annoyed her;
                    Alison did not like Lady Blaythewaite.
                The curtain drew up on the second act, revealing a rose-clambered cottage and a
                    sundial. The play proceeded after the manner of love-stories which are enacted
                    to lime-light. Two sets of lovers—one arch, one sentimental—wandered through a
                    wicket-gate in rotation, though during the scene between the arch lovers—in
                    which a watering-pot and some artificial geraniums played a prominent part—it
                    was noticeable that some of the habitual theatre-goers began a mumbled
                    conversation. It was unmistakable, however, that the interest of the
                    dress-circle was aroused when a rising moon
                    illuminated the embrace of the sentimental lovers, during which the ominous
                    figure of an adventuress was seen hovering behind a hedge.
                The critics, however, began to yawn, and several cheery conversations were
                    started in private boxes, notably in that of Lady Blaythewaite, whose white
                    shoulders were detached with startling distinctness against a phalanx of black
                    coats.
                The door of the Higgins's box down below opened, and there was visible the figure
                    of a youngish man against the pale gold of the corridor. Mary could not see his
                    face, which was black against the light; but in another instant the new-comer,
                    after shaking hands all round, had slipped into the chair behind the younger
                    lady, and his face was now illuminated by the glare of the footlights. Miss
                    Higgins began to fan herself violently with a jerky movement, and fidgeted about
                    in her chair. Mary's eyes were riveted on the face of the new arrival. Just
                    where she sat he could not see her. It was Vincent Hemming.
                Then she turned her eyes away—as if ashamed—and kept them fixed upon the stage.
                    The sentimental lovers were now swearing eternal fidelity.... Were they the real
                    puppets, Mary wondered, or she, and Vincent, and Miss Higgins, and the
                    Blaythewaites, each pulled this way and that
                    by their passions, their ambitions, their desires? Vincent was in town, and she
                    had heard nothing from him! True, she had not had many letters of late, but then
                    he had been, of course, immersed in his election business. She had not expected
                    to hear. And yet, why should he spend his first night in town with these people?
                    Vincent, too, must have got the box; it was evidently his party, for the mayor
                    of a provincial town, however many times a millionaire, is not on the lists for
                    first-nights at fashionable theatres in London.
                On the stage Mary was conscious that the adventuress was advancing to the
                    footlights murmuring the words ‘My husband!’ and that the curtain was falling on
                    the second act.
                She sat with her eyes fixed on her lap. Every nerve in her body was drawn at full
                    tension. It was a relief when the canvas door opened, and one or two men came
                    in. She leaned back in her chair, saying anything, so as not to have to think.
                    Beaufy had slipped again into the chair behind her.
                ‘What do you think I heard about the Higgins heiress?’ he began. ‘I take such an
                    interest in them because, you see, I was the first to discover them. You see
                    that man down there, sitting in her pocket? Well, that's Hemming, the man who's
                    just got in for Northborough. They say he's
                    going to marry her.’
                ‘Is he?’ said Mary, and she was astonished to find how natural her voice sounded.
                    After all, she told herself, she knew how it would be on the day of his return
                    from America.
                ‘Yes; isn't it delicious? Why, one might as well be married to the housemaid. But
                    they say he hasn't got a farthing, you know, and she'll have twelve thousand a
                    year just to start housekeeping. But the best of it is, I hear the poor devil
                    wants to get out of it, only his worship won't let him off. Stands over him in
                    his chains of office and waves the municipal mace; says he only got him into the
                    House as a prospective son-in-law. They say she's got a strong Lancashire
                    accent,’ he concluded in his most malicious and triumphant tone.
                ‘Indeed,’ said Mary, raising her eyelids, and letting them drop again with a
                    tired gesture. Fortunately no one in the box had heard but herself. Both Lady
                    Jane and Alison were talking to new arrivals. She made an effort—an effort which
                    completely prostrated her next day—to look smiling, calm, imperturbable. Why,
                    the very fabric of society was based on that acquiescent feminine smile. She,
                    like other women before her, must learn her fate with the eyes of the world
                    fixed curiously upon her.... If she could only
                    creep away somewhere, hide her face, not see the hideous comedy going on in the
                    box down there, not have to look at the yellow footlights, watch the foolish,
                    inane, unreal comedy on the stage. But she could not leave the theatre without
                    making a scene, having explanations. The curtain rose on the last act.
                ‘Vincent is going to marry Miss Higgins,’ she said to herself deliberately, as
                    the arch pair of lovers entered, quarrelling, in a pretty drawing-room set. She
                    tried to realise this new calamity; to understand what it meant to her, as the
                    comic young gentleman on the stage essayed to appease the arch young lady's
                    wrath by tying an errant shoe-lace. Vincent and Miss Higgins.... Vincent and
                    Miss Higgins: living together, always together; husband and wife in all the
                    long, long years to come.—'For better, for worse, for richer, for poorer, in
                    sickness and in health, till death did them part.’ It was with the blurred
                    vision which accompanies poignant mental anguish that Mary saw that the
                    happiness of the sentimental lovers on the stage was not to be frustrated, for
                    the adventuress, it would seem, was a bigamist, and was already married....
                    Married! Why, merciful God! Vincent and that girl in the box down below—they,
                    too, were going to be married—
                ‘Dear, you look dreadfully white,’ said Alison,
                    catching sight of Mary's face. With a fixed, mechanical smile, Mary was thanking
                    Mr. Beaufort Flower, who was playfully throwing a boa round her shoulders. ‘I'm
                    afraid you're tired. The play bored one horribly, didn't it? And the theatre's
                    so hot—’
                ‘I'm all right,’ said Mary heroically. ‘It's nothing.’
                People spoke to her as she went downstairs and along the corridor, and she
                    answered them with pale, mauvish lips. Such a charming, pretty piece, wasn't it?
                    Quite an idyll, and so wholesome, after this disgusting talk about heredity, and
                    so on.... It was quite a relief, they said, to get a thoroughly English piece
                    with a happy ending.
                And in the pushing crowd at the door her lover almost brushed her elbow as he
                    passed her unwittingly with the Lancashire heiress. The girl, Mary could see,
                    wore the triumphant expression of the underbred young woman who has secured a
                    desirable husband. Mary hardly dared look at Vincent, though every fibre in her
                    body yearned towards him; but as he passed out, with Miss Higgins leaning
                    heavily on his arm, she had a brief vision of a harassed, sheepish, and uneasy
                    face.
                ‘Why, he is unhappy!’ she thought, with a pang.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XVI
                TWO ULTIMATUMS
                IN the professional solemnity of the consulting-room, the large, bland
                    face of Dr. Danby looked grave. Tapping his stethoscope, with which he had just
                    made an examination of Mary, he looked her straight in the eyes.
                ‘The fact is, my child, you ought to know the truth. You will not, believe me, be
                    able to do the work you are doing. As a matter of fact, you are very, very far
                    from strong. Nothing dangerous, I admit, but great deli—cacy,’ he added
                    thoughtfully, pronouncing the word ‘delicacy’ with a certain unction, as an
                    attribute which applied mostly to charming young women. ‘None of the vital
                    organs are attacked as yet,’ he went on, ‘but there is a terrible want of tone.
                    If I were asked to describe you, I should say you were a bundle of nerves.
                    Slightly anæmic, too,’ continued the doctor, frowning. ‘You live too much in
                    London. There is too much strain on the nervous system. You have, you see, an unfortunate previous history. Your
                    father, you must remember, was not able to stand the strain; your poor mother
                    died when she was a mere girl. A mere girl,’ repeated the great man, shaking his
                    head.
                ‘Well, that, at any rate, I shall not be able to accomplish,’ said Mary drily.
                    ‘You know, doctor, that I am nearly twenty-eight.’
                ‘Dear me, dear me—you don't look it.’ And then he added briskly, taking out a
                    sheet of paper and beginning to write a prescription, ‘I should like to have all
                    you young ladies living a healthy out-of-door life, happily married, and with no
                    mental worries. There is something wrong somewhere,’ he muttered to himself,
                    ‘with our boasted civilisation. It's all unnatural. Not fit, not fit for
                    girls.’
                There was a silence. Mary said nothing, but observed, with much interest, a
                    sparrow which was conveying to a nest in the drain-pipe a crust of bread which
                    the servants had thrown out in the yard. Since Vincent's letter—a long,
                    characteristic letter, speaking of new duties, and obligations, of personal
                    sacrifices for the cause which he had so much at heart, and of his dread of
                    dragging her down ‘to a life of pecuniary restraints and restricted
                    horizons’—she had almost felt as if she must give up the fight. Her nerves were
                    completely unstrung, but she had never stopped
                    working. In work there was at least forgetfulness.
                ‘Arsenic, iron, and strychnine, with something for the nerves,’ said the doctor,
                    thoughtfully; ‘and the Volnay I told you of before. There should be a complete
                    change of scene and ideas.’
                ‘I'll try the tonic and the burgundy, please,’ said Mary, as she rose to go. ‘I
                    cannot leave London now; and I don't see any prospect of doing so. And—and—it
                    isn't exactly serious, dear Dr. Danby?’ she continued, looking him, in her turn,
                    straight in the face with her charming eyes.
                ‘My dear child,’ he said kindly, ‘life without health and happiness is not worth
                    having. Let me beg you to stop, to take care of yourself, to think of others,’
                    he added vaguely.
                ‘I wonder whom I've got to think of?’ thought Mary, as she went down the step of
                    the Wimpole Street house. ‘Jimmie, who will probably marry before he is
                    one-and-twenty? Aunt Julia, at Bournemouth, who thinks I am given over to the
                    evil one since I've become a journalist? Vincent?’—but here Mary pulled up her
                    thoughts with a jerk. Yet the words ‘life without health and happiness,’ ‘very
                    del-i-cate,’ repeated themselves in her brain, as she made her way towards the
                    Strand, where she had an appointment with the editor of
                            Illustrations.
                
                And with this new care pressing upon her, never had the Strand seemed so dreary,
                    so cheaply vicious, as to-day under the hurrying clouds.
                ‘Spesh—shul!—Globe piper—St. James's
                            Gizett—Pall Mall,’ shouted a
                    newsboy in her ear, at Charing-cross; and looking down she read, in blue or red
                    letters, spattered and stained with London mud, the posters of the evening
                    newspapers:—‘The Great Divorce Case. Cross-examination of the Plaintiff,
                    Unabridged Report. Ladies ordered out of Court. Sketches of the Co-respondents.’
                    For the Blaythewaite scandal hung, like a pestilence, over England. Like some
                    foul miasma, it poisoned everything. It met the eye, in columns of close print,
                    at the breakfast table; it formed the one subject of conversation wherever
                    people met. With hoarse laughs and brutal jests, it was discussed in
                    public-houses and at street corners; with tepid, meaning smiles and shrugged
                    shoulders in drawing-rooms and clubs.
                And meanwhile the great tide of humanity swept on. A dray had got across the
                    crowded street, and a procession of loaded omnibuses, whose drivers were
                    bandying oaths and scathing cockney satire, drew up at the curb. Outside Charing
                    Cross station two girls in tawdry capes were
                    quarrelling and gesticulating, while a man in a round hat, who had just arrived
                    by train, and who appeared to be the cause of the dispute, turned from them
                    both, hailed a hansom, and drove off with a relieved air. A small gaping crowd
                    at once gathered round the wranglers on the pavement. ‘Run 'em both in,’ said a
                    raucous voice on the fringe of the crowd; and, indeed, a policeman's helmet was
                    now seen bearing down towards the group. Mary hurried on. Further on there were
                    sordid little eating-houses displaying a joint of raw meat, a cauliflower, and a
                    plate of oysters; and dark narrow passages—the entrance to theatres—ornamented
                    with coloured posters of the latest three-act farce. Inexpressibly dreary were
                    the pictures which invited one within: representations of elderly ladies in
                    black silk, falling backwards into hip-baths: monster heads of comedians, with
                    flaxen wigs and brick-red complexions, displaying all their teeth in a frightful
                    grin; full-length posters of girls with knowing smiles and abnormally developed
                    limbs; while further on, outside a music-hall, was the picture of a
                    raffish-looking dwarf, who was described with engaging optimism as ‘screamingly
                    funny.’
                ‘Spesh—shul! Extry spesh—shul! The great divorce case! Ex-trorinary evidence!
                    Cross-examination of Sir 'Orris Blaythewaite’!
                    shouted a small newsvendor in Mary's ear, as she waited at Wellington Street to
                    cross.
                And all the while, as she hurried along to the office, with this new terror of
                    broken health knocking at her brain, she wondered what the abrupt summons could
                    mean which she had received from the editor. Half of the MSS. of her novel was
                    in his hands. Could it be possible that he was going to refuse it?
                With some trepidation, Mary gave her name to her old admirer, the small office
                    boy, whom she found casting a supercilious eye over the current number of the
                    paper, while he furtively sucked an acid drop. And in due time she found herself
                    ushered into the editor's private room. Six months of proof-reading, of
                    interviewing incapable artists, of the thousand worries of a newspaper, had not
                    made the manners of the editor of Illustrations more
                    gracious.
                ‘Good day, Miss Erle. Take a chair. I want to talk to you.’
                ‘Is it anything,’ asked Mary, ‘about the novel?’
                ‘The fact is,’ said the melancholy man, tapping with an irritable hand on a pile
                    of manuscript near his desk, which Mary recognised with some anxiety as her own,
                    ‘it won't do at all. It won't do at all.’
                ‘It—won't do?’ faltered Mary. ‘Why, I've
                    written it just as you told me. There's a ball in the first volume, a parting in
                    the second—’
                ‘Oh, that's all right,’ interrupted the editor. ‘But, my dear young lady,’ he
                    added, ‘you've put the most extraordinary things in this last chapter. Why,
                    there's a young man making love to his friend's wife. I can't print that sort of
                    thing in my paper. The public won't stand it. They want thoroughly healthy
                    reading.’
                ‘Do they?’ said Mary, who could not help remembering the columns of unedifying
                    matter which had lain on the breakfast-table that morning, nor the newsboys
                    vending the latest detail of the great scandal, served red-hot at the street
                    corners. ‘I thought,’ she continued quietly, ‘that the public would take
                    anything—in a newspaper.’
                For a minute the editor looked perplexed. Then, frowning slightly, he went on:
                    ‘Not in fiction—not in fiction. Must be fit to go into every parsonage in
                    England. Remember that you write chiefly for healthy English homes.’
                ‘But even the people in the country parsonage must occasionally see life as it
                    is—or do they go about with their eyes shut?’ ventured Mary quietly.
                ‘Well, we're not going to encourage that sort of thing,’ he said conclusively,
                    getting up and putting his mouth to the telephone.
                
                ‘Hullo! Richards! No. Yes, of course. Not got the portrait of Lady Blaythewaite?
                    What? Spoiled? Take another kodak into court, then. Eh? Yes. See that it's a
                    good likeness. All the co-respondents for this week's issue. And see that
                    they're touched up. What? Yes, yes. A couple of pages of drawings.’
                The editor sat down again. Their eyes met.
                ‘The fact is,’ he said, looking rather foolish, ‘novels are—er—well—novels. The
                    British public doesn't expect them to be like life. And if you take my advice,
                    Miss Erle, and cultivate your talents in the right way, you will be able to make
                    a—a—comfortable income. Only there must be a thoroughly breezy, healthy
                    tone.’
                ‘Oh, as to breezy,’ said Mary, in a tired voice, ‘I never somehow feel like that.
                    I don't know how it is, but I can't help seeing things as they are, and the
                    truth is so supremely attractive.’
                ‘But it is just what the public won't stand,’ repeated the editor. ‘Now take this
                    chapter back and reconsider it. This young man, now—he isn't a principal
                    character in the story—couldn't you make him her cousin—or her brother?’
                ‘Oh, anything you like,’ said Mary, taking the manuscript; ‘but I did like that
                        chapter. I took so much trouble over it.
                    It was a little bit of real observation.’
                ‘That's right. And if you don't mind my saying so, there aren't quite enough love
                    scenes between the hero and the heroine. The public like love-scenes, and
                    besides, they illustrate so well.’
                ‘Is there anything more?’ asked Mary, trying to force the manuscript into her
                    pocket.
                ‘I should suggest a thoroughly happy ending. The public like happy endings. The
                    novelists are getting so morbid. It's all these French and Russian writers that
                    have done it. It's really difficult now to get a thoroughly breezy book with a
                    wedding at the end. Take my advice and stick to pretty stories. They're bound to
                    pay best.’
                ‘That's what Perry Jackson thinks,’ said Mary to herself, as she stepped out into
                    the windy Strand. ‘And he certainly understands—he always did understand—the
                    public.’ The banal, the pretty-pretty, the
                    obvious! This was what she was to write—if she wanted to make any money, to keep
                    her head above water. And the kindly words of the doctor reiterated themselves
                    in her brain: ‘All you young ladies ought to be living a healthy, out-door life,
                    happily married, and with no mental worries!’ And then, with a kind of obstinate
                    courage, she thought of what she should do to get better. She would try and eat
                    more meat; she would order some burgundy at
                    the stores; she would try and get more out in the open air; and there was the
                    tonic—the arsenic and strychnine—which sometimes, for a week or two, seemed to
                    give her a fresh lease of life. She must take some of that prescription
                    to-night, for to-morrow she had to go all the way to the Whitechapel Hospital to
                    do a scene for her book. It would be tiring, very tiring, but it had all been
                    arranged with Alison and Dr. Strange. The outlines of the long narrow street
                    were growing vague in the twilight. The omnibuses, loaded inside and out, loomed
                    in dark masses against the pink western sky. The aspect of the crowd had
                    changed. Hardly any women were to be seen, and the newsboys, bawling their
                    loudest, were thrusting their wares in the faces of busy lawyers hurrying from
                    the Courts. With the passing hours, events, it would seem, had waxed more
                    exciting.
                ‘Spesh-shul! Extry Spesh-hul! Fifth Edition! Sir 'Orris Blaythewaite in the box!
                    Revoltin' details! The great divorce case!’ shouted the newsboys.
                And beneath the cold, unheeding, scudding clouds, the world which writes, and
                    buys, and sells the news of the evening was pushing, hurrying, and jostling
                    elbows up and down the wind-swept Strand.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XVII
                NUMBER TWENTY-SEVEN
                THE vast, mud-coloured building loomed out of the fog as the doctor's
                    coachman drew up, with a jerk, under the portico. Against the dark lining of the
                    carriage the fine drawing of a man's profile was visible by the light of a
                    portable lamp. There were irritable folds at the corners of the mouth, a
                    restless look in the keen eyes, as they travelled over the page he was reading.
                    Dr. Dunlop Strange only folded up the medical paper he had been studying as he
                    went up the steps of the Whitechapel Hospital. It was his habit to allow himself
                    no time for vagrant thoughts, so that even to-day, when he was to meet Alison
                    and take her over the hospital along with Mary Erle, even to-day his mind ran on
                    professional matters.
                Inside the large bare hall, where a marble statue of the Queen loomed chillily
                    out of the vague half-light, Alison and Mary, the latter carrying a leather
                    note-book, were already awaiting him. Dunlop Strange looked at Alison, taking in every detail of her radiant
                    personality with his swift professional glance. In the after years he always
                    preferred to think of her as he saw her that instant, standing by the white
                    marble statue of the Queen, for never again did she look at him with the same
                    clear, cordial eyes.
                The doctor and Alison met as people meet who are more than interested in each
                    other. For some time past she had known that he was devoted to her, and the girl
                    had almost made up her mind, if he asked her, she would accept him. It was a
                    busy, sensible life, that of a doctor's wife, she told herself; and, after all,
                    in her world, one had to marry some day or other. One couldn't permit one's self
                    the luxury of being an old maid, unless one had an income of over £5,000 a year.
                    But there was no particular hurry, she said, when well-meaning friends bothered
                    her about it. They were both of a certain age. They both had their own
                    occupations, their own hobbies.
                The doctor never took his eyes from her face. To have this woman for his wife
                    would be the crowning act of a brilliantly successful career. He only hesitated
                    to speak until he had received the baronetcy which was in store for him. Not
                    that Alison herself would care; she had none of the usual small feminine
                    ambitions; but the doctor was quite aware that it would influence Lady Jane, who had made up her mind that Alison, when
                    she married, should only make, if she could help it, what she called a ‘sensible
                    match.’
                They went up a stone staircase, to which a somewhat false air of cheerfulness was
                    imparted by a grass-green painted dado, surmounted by a bright lavender-toned
                    wall, passing a large window giving out on a grimy back garden, a garden whose
                    sodden grass plot was closed in by high, brown brick walls, and over which hung
                    a heavy, fog-laden sky, etched with sooty branches. On the first landing there
                    was a closed door, and outside, an empty stretcher, beside which two hospital
                    porters were waiting. Suddenly the door was pushed ajar, and for an instant
                    there was a vision of anxious, inquisitive faces, lit up by a glare of gas; of a
                    nurse's back, bending forward, and of a surgeon's face, blowing spray on to
                    something that was invisible. Over all an intense silence, broken only by the
                    hoarse whispers of the porters with the stretcher, wondering how long they would
                    have to wait.
                ‘There don't seem to be many students in there,’ said Alison in her practical
                    voice.
                ‘No, they don't crowd in here like they do in the other hospitals. We've so many
                    operations, you see. Two or three every afternoon all the year round.’
                
                Upstairs, in the ‘Charlotte Ward,’ the fifty red-quilted beds effaced themselves
                    in the gloom of the winter afternoon. There was a vague odour of medicine,
                    overpowered by that of patent disinfectants. All the beds were alike; there were
                    blue-and-white checked curtains and vallance, a rope by which the patient could
                    pull herself into a sitting posture, a cupboard with food and medicines inside,
                    and a cardboard overhead, on which the number, age, disease, and diet of the
                    patient were all duly inscribed. Yes, the little beds, thought Mary, were
                    curiously alike, and yet on every mattress a different form of pain was being
                    endured.
                ‘Congestion of the lungs, peritonitis,’ said the doctor in a brief undertone, as
                    the two girls passed down the room. A screen was placed round one of the narrow
                    bedsteads.
                ‘What is that for?’ whispered Mary.
                ‘Hopeless case,’ answered the doctor gravely. ‘It is probably all over by now. We
                    do that to spare the other patients. Death scenes have a bad moral effect.’
                ‘And—and how long do they stay there after it's all over?’
                ‘Oh, they are removed to the mortuary at once.’
                At intervals down the long room, with its shining white boards, blazed large
                    fires, lighting up, here and there, the bland,
                    unemotional features of a nurse, under her smooth hair and white cap—the sexless
                    features of a woman who has learnt to witness suffering without a sign. Yet they
                    brightened the room, these girls, in their lilac cotton gowns and ample aprons,
                    with their practical faces, and their strong, helpful hands, suggesting an
                    out-of-doors where people were healthy and happy, a place where no one was
                    agonising.
                On hearing that Dr. Strange was taking visitors round, Sister Charlotte, the
                    superintendent of the ward, emerged from her private room and hurried forward.
                    The Sister was a long-nosed woman of thirty-five, with small, bright eyes and a
                    cordial manner. The doctor introduced the three ladies to each other, and Sister
                    Charlotte talked, moving forward all the time, with a professional look on her
                    bright face. They stopped, now, at every bed. Mary asked questions in an
                    undertone, and Dunlop Strange, whose hospital manner was proverbial, addressed
                    each sick woman in the same tone he would have employed to a duchess. His way
                    with women was one of the things for which he was justly famous. And in this
                    manner the little procession moved somewhat slowly along.
                They had come to the end of one line of beds,
                    and were now about to turn up the other side of the room. Sister Charlotte
                    stopped.
                ‘We have a new patient there, doctor,’ she said briskly. ‘Number twenty-seven. A
                    hopeless case of rapid consumption. Poor creature,’ she whispered to Alison,
                    ‘she was in a terrible state when she came. I can't tell you. They brought her
                    in from one of the common lodging-houses. It seems she tried to commit suicide
                    last summer, but the police fished her out of the canal, and managed to pump
                    back the life into her. That was the beginning of her lung-trouble. Since then
                    she must have sunk very low.’
                All four stepped up to the foot of the narrow bed. The patient's back was turned
                    to them. She was only a shapeless lump, breathing heavily under the red
                    coverlet.
                ‘Don't let's disturb her,’ said Alison, in a faintly disgusted tone.
                        ‘Why hadn't they let the wretched woman drown in that muddy
                    canal water, before she could be sucked down in the awful whirlpool of
                    vice?’
                But the irony of actualities has little to do with any mere human volition. There
                    are things written by the great penman we call destiny, which no man's remorse
                    can erase and no woman's tears wash out. Number Twenty-seven tossed over and lay
                    on her back, and the course of two lives was altered.
                
                Number Twenty-seven lay on her back, her vicious face, with its hard mouth and
                    the brownish-pink flush on each cheek-bone, looking sharply emaciated against
                    the whiteness of the pillow. Her fringe, reaching nearly to her eye-brows, was
                    faded and lank; the mouth, with its singularly hard lines, was swollen and
                    livid.
                ‘Oh! Alison,’ whispered Mary, ‘I remember her, although she's terribly changed. I
                    once saw her, waiting, poor soul, in the Regent's Park, for someone—’
                Dr. Dunlop Strange bent forward with his searching, professional glance, for he
                    was famous at diagnosis. He put his hand on her wrist, and their eyes met. Good
                    God! Could it be? His heart absolutely stood still. Was this horrible wreck the
                    girl he had taken such a fancy to only half a dozen years ago—the girl who had
                    been so fond of him, but who had grown so bad-tempered and suspicious, that he
                    had been obliged to break off all relations with her? And, merciful God! could
                    it be that this woman—the unsightly corpse, as it were, of his dead pleasure—was
                    going to speak; was about to spoil the happiness of his whole future life? In
                    all his forty-five years Dr. Dunlop Strange had never known such an odious
                    moment.
                But Number Twenty-seven only laughed—an unmirthful, coarse, and empty laugh.
                
                ‘Lord, are you here?’ she muttered, staring the doctor straight in
                    the eyes. Then she tossed over.
                It was a curious scene. The doctor drew a long breath; he had grown visibly paler
                    before he spoke. The nurse stared. Alison's eyes were fixed on the bed-quilt.
                    Mary looked perplexed.
                ‘Poor creature! She mistakes me for some one else,’ he said at last, in a voice
                    which he tried hard to make natural. ‘They often do just at the last,’ he added
                    in a lower tone. And then, taking down the card hung over the bed, on which the
                    patient's age, disease, and diet, as well as the physician's name in charge of
                    the case were written, he continued in his sympathetic voice—
                ‘Quite right; perfectly right. Dr. Brown, I see, has ordered everything that
                    could possibly be of use. Sister, look after this case specially.’
                Alison roused herself, bent over the patient, saying something kind, and passed
                    on in a kind of dream. Not an incident of the strange scene had escaped her. She
                    felt a curious kind of nausea; perhaps it was the air of the ward. It sounded
                    far off, the chat and the talk round the other beds, as they passed up the ward,
                    and she was conscious only of an irresistible desire to go back and speak to
                    that poor outcast on the hospital mattress.
                    They passed to another girl—the battered leavings of the vice of a great
                    city—and further on a sallow, bright-eyed young woman sitting up in bed, whom,
                    Sister Charlotte whispered, they must make haste to cure and discharge, as in a
                    month or two she would become a mother.
                ‘She will become a mother,’ thought Alison, ‘the mother, perhaps, of a baby-girl,
                    destined, before she is born, to become like one of these!’
                The face of Number Twenty-seven became an obtrusion. She must go back and hear
                    her story; perhaps she could help her, save her, send her out to a farm she knew
                    of at the Cape, where even such as she might begin a new life. People often got
                    well at the Cape when they were far gone in consumption.
                The doctor and Mary were a little way in front as Alison detained the Sister for
                    a moment.
                ‘I should like, Sister Charlotte,’ she said, trying to make her voice sound
                    indifferent, ‘to come and see that poor woman—Number Twenty-seven—to-morrow. I
                    have taken an interest in her case. Tell me, where does she come from—what sort
                    of a girl was she before—?’
                ‘Oh, she's not a Londoner. Came from Sussex five or six years ago.’
                
                ‘I might,’ said Alison, ‘be able to do something for her. I will talk it all over
                    with you if you will let me come to-morrow.’
                ‘You must allow me to drive you both home,’ said Dr. Dunlop Strange, in his
                    decided way, as they stepped out into the grey mud, the orange gas-lights, and
                    the shuffling crowd of the Whitechapel Road. But there was not much conversation
                    as the carriage rolled westward through the deepening gloom. Mary and the doctor
                    talked spasmodically. Alison hardly spoke.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XVIII
                DUNLOP STRANGE MAKES A MISTAKE
                IT was three minutes to eight. Round the marble mantelpiece in the great
                    empty-looking drawing-room in Portman Square, a small circle of guests were
                    gathered. Lady Jane was talking. She had been a wit and a beauty in her youth,
                    and, with the garrulity of old age, she liked to talk of her triumphs; of her
                    flirtation with Bulwer Lytton, whose waistcoats and whose romances were just
                    then turning the heads of all the women; of the occasion when she snatched a
                    celebrity from Lady Palmerston, and above all, of d'Orsay, who, up to the last,
                    had continued to scintillate at her dinner-parties. To-night she was discussing
                    a famous statesman's cautious affairs of the heart with a little old man, whose
                    parchment face had wrinkled and whose hair had whitened in the service of his
                    country at various minor European courts.
                ‘I always heard, you know, that she was formally engaged to him when her husband
                        was still alive. He went there every day.
                    The thing was accepted.’
                The wrinkled old man had a senile chuckle, which not infrequently turned into a
                    cough.
                ‘He, he, my dear lady. I know it for a fact. And then there was the other woman.
                    The old lady that used to make appointments with him, by the great fountain at
                    the Crystal Palace—’
                ‘And who left him all her money.’
                ‘How quite too delicious. Early Victorian scandal,’ whispered Beaufy Flower to
                    Lady Blaythewaite, who, in her rôle of pretty
                    woman, was standing in her favourite swaggering attitude on the hearth-rug, a
                    radiant vision of pink and white flesh. ‘Don't you want to hear it?’
                ‘I don't know whom they're talking about,’ she said in her deliberate drawl.
                    ‘Does one ever meet these people anywhere—at dinner, or at Sandown?’
                ‘Oh, they're all dead,’ he sniggered, patting the Parma violets in his coat.
                ‘Then why didn't you say so before, you little idiot?’ announced her ladyship in
                    her rather high voice. She was vaguely afraid of the boy's malicious tongue, but
                    she tolerated him about her because she was more afraid of the spiteful things
                    he would say if she didn't.
                ‘But it's deliciously amusing, Lady Jane's
                    scandal, isn't it?’ he continued with a little wriggle which disposed of the
                    pretty woman's snub. ‘Can you picture an intrigue in side-spring boots, the
                        coup de foudre from a spoon-bonnet and a
                    burnous, and white, blue-white stockings?’
                ‘No, I can't. They must have looked frumps,’ replied the lady, with a complacent
                    survey of her Paris frock and her somewhat obvious charms in the huge gilt
                    mirror. It was two months now since the great divorce case; it was considered
                    dull to talk about it any more. The whole affair had remained nebulous. Neither
                    side had been able to obtain a verdict, but most people took the lady's part.
                    Sir Horace was old, ugly, and vicious; she was young, pretty, and in a notably
                    tolerant set. The husband had gone away in his steam yacht to investigate the
                    South Sea Islands, and meanwhile Lady Blaythewaite made a point of being seen
                    everywhere, especially at houses which she would have voted ‘frumpish’ a year
                    ago.
                The guests were arriving quickly now. Mr. Bosanquet-Barry, very boyish-looking
                    and important, with something to tell Lady Jane which had to be told in a
                    distant corner, while his hostess tapped him several times playfully with a
                    small carved ivory fan; the Irish Viceroy, over on important business; a
                        well-known beauty without her husband, who
                    was annoyed when she found she was not the last, as she had wished to make an
                    effective entry; Mary, looking somewhat pale and worn; a young A.D.C. from
                    India, with a crooked line of sunburn across his forehead, and a naïve
                    enthusiasm for the two London beauties; and the Attorney-General, famous for his
                    good stories.
                ‘It is my own child,’ complained Lady Jane to the Viceroy, who had more than once
                    advanced to offer his arm, under the impression that dinner had been announced,
                    ‘who keeps me waiting for my dinner. Would you believe that that girl of mine
                    spends half her time in a workman's flat, or poking about in those horrible
                    smelling streets in Whitechapel?’
                ‘Young ladies,’ said the Viceroy, frowning, for he was very hungry, ‘have curious
                    ideas of amusing themselves nowadays.’
                ‘In our time balls and parties were supposed to suffice. But I can't get my child
                    to take a proper interest in society,’ complained Lady Jane. ‘I tell her it's
                    absurd. Why, it's such a refuge for a woman in her old age. But it's always the
                    same story. When she is young and pretty society cares for the woman, but when
                    she is old and—well—repaired, it is, of course, the woman who cares for
                    society.’
                Just then Alison slipped in quietly. ‘Please
                    forgive me, mother, for being late,’ she said, in a tired little voice, as she
                    kissed Lady Jane on each plump cheek. ‘I'm dead tired. I only got home from the
                    hospital at seven.’
                ‘Well, you're not the last,’ said her mother. ‘Our dear Dunlop Strange hasn't
                    come yet, and he's to take you down.’
                ‘Dr. Strange?’ said Alison, her face growing white. ‘I thought he was in
                    Brussels? It was in the papers that he had been sent for from Brussels.’
                ‘So he was; but he'll be back for my dinner to-night. I know, too, he's got an
                    important consultation to-morrow. But we can't wait,’ said Lady Jane, ringing
                    the bell.
                The long procession began to move slowly to the dining-room. Alison went down
                    alone. She ate her soup in silence, thankful for the empty chair beside her. Oh,
                    if only something would keep him away to-night. She could not bear it. She was
                    tired, her head ached, her throat felt dry; she must have caught a chill. A fine
                    drizzle had been falling when she left the Whitechapel Hospital, and nowhere was
                    there a cab to be seen. The long journey home in an omnibus, an omnibus for
                    which she had waited a long time at a corner, had thoroughly tired and chilled
                    her. The conventional voices of the men, the foolish, fixed smiles of the
                        women all around, struck her to-night as
                    more than usually puerile. How endless seemed the long procession of fishes and
                    meats, of hocks and clarets!—what a foolish superabundance of food! At one
                    moment she made up her mind she would get up and slip out of the room. The
                    commonplace voice of Lady Blaythewaite, making the somewhat bald statement that
                    she intended to start for Monte Carlo on the 28th of the following month, bored
                    and irritated her. On her right hand two people were passionately discussing the
                    way in which red mullet should be cooked. The lady, it would seem, was all for
                        papilottes, whereas the gentleman could
                    not endure them without being stuffed and served with port-wine sauce. It was
                    the only moment of the dinner at which the conversation on her right hand had
                    approached any sort of enthusiasm. The wrinkled diplomat, who sat on her
                    mother's left hand, was resuscitating some details of Lola Montez in '48 for her
                    special delectation. The Viceroy was solemnly consuming his dinner. Through the
                    tall flower-stands Alison could hear Mr. Bosanquet-Barry, under the soothing
                    influence of Lady Jane's excellent champagne, airily inciting Mary to write art
                    criticisms for The Comet; a fact which Alison was
                    certain he would forget the very next morning. The odour of hot-house flowers,
                    the smell of the meats, the very bouquet of
                    the wines, seemed to overpower her. She had made up her mind to go, when the
                    chair next to her was pulled out, and Dunlop Strange sat down beside her.
                It was too late now. She could not leave the room without all London knowing
                    that—
                ‘I'm so sorry; the boat was late getting into Dover, and I've only just got
                    here,’ said Strange.
                ‘Then I'll let you eat your dinner, doctor,’ said Alison, making a civil effort,
                    ‘you must be tired and hungry.’
                ‘No, no fish or soup. I'll have what's going,’ said the doctor to the obsequious
                    butler, who regarded him already as the son-in-law of the house.
                ‘You're a wicked man,’ cried Lady Jane down the table. ‘Why didn't you come
                    before? My cook won't forgive you, even if I do.’
                And Dunlop Strange, as he drank off a glass of champagne and looked round the
                    table, felt tenderly disposed to all the world. He felt, rather than saw, the
                    beautiful profile at his side. He was always intensely conscious of Alison's
                    presence; he knew when she was in a room even before he had seen her. No woman
                    that he had ever met had ever attracted him like this one. And in gracefully
                    artificial moments like these Dunlop Strange was happy. The factitious and
                    fleeting emotions which he 
                        ex-
                        experienced
                     perienced in society delighted
                    him—emotions heightened by a rare vintage, made memorable by an elaborate dish,
                    accentuated by a fine feminine smile. The half chaffing, half caressing tone in
                    which his patients addressed him (for Dunlop Strange was popular with great
                    ladies); the rôle, three-parts confessor and
                    one-fourth adorer, which he played with these beautiful victims of the vapours
                    and the megrims, appealed directly to his vanity. He had around him continually
                    in his consulting-room of a morning, during his afternoons spent rapidly driving
                    from one enervating boudoir to another, and at night in society, a voluptuous
                    feminine atmosphere, an atmosphere which had become part of his life, and which
                    he could no more dispense with now than the fine burgundy he was wont to drink
                    at his dinner, the special havannah which assisted the process of digestion
                    afterwards. And there, close beside him, his arm almost touching hers at the
                    crowded dinner-table, sat the woman who was more to him than any other feminine
                    personality—the woman who was to make him one of the most envied men in
                    London.
                Alison was speaking now to her neighbour on the right, but Strange was struck,
                    when she turned round, with the hard look on her face. There was an expression
                    in the girl's eyes 
                        to-
                        to-night
                     night which he had never seen there,
                    and which he could not quite understand, unless—
                ‘You look tired,’ he said, in his soft professional voice. ‘What have you been
                    doing to-day?’
                ‘I? Oh, I have been at the Whitechapel Hospital. I have been there several times
                    since that day we went with you,’ she added quietly.
                ‘I wish to Heaven you would not run any such risk! We doctors are hardened, you
                    know, but there is always the fear of infection for delicate women.’
                ‘I did not,’ said Alison, ‘go near the fever ward. I went to see—Sister
                    Charlotte.’
                Just then Lady Blaythewaite, who was on Strange's left, turned her rather
                    prominent eyes upon him, and for a quarter of an hour Dr. Dunlop Strange was not
                    suffered to waver in his dinner-table devotion, though he was tortured with
                    doubts about Alison—about the girl in the hospital. It was absurd, it was
                    melodramatic, that the girl should have turned up again.... But with this ugly
                    fact knocking at his brain, he had to lend an attentive ear to his neighbour's
                    confidences about the Cambridgeshire, and how much ‘ready cash’ she expected to
                    ‘land’ by her somewhat elaborate transactions. Vaguely, as in a dream, the
                    doctor heard about the favourite—a certain ‘Miss 
                        Gwen-
                        Gwendolen
                     dolen’—who had just been
                    ‘scratched,’ and some foreign admirer, who, it appeared, ‘put’ Lady Blaythewaite
                    on to various ‘good things.’ On his other side an animated discussion on the
                    subject of liqueurs was in hand, in which Miss Ives was politely pretending to
                    take an interest. The merits of Kirsch, of Benedictine, of Elixir de Spa, were
                    contended for with some spirit and success, while Lady Blaythewaite, joining in,
                    declared herself entirely in favour of green Chartreuse. The subject was
                    beginning to show signs of wear when the doctor turned to Alison—
                ‘And so you went to see Sister Charlotte again? A capital woman. Plenty of common
                    sense—no nonsense about her. The sort of person you can trust.’
                ‘I am glad of that,’ replied Alison quietly, ‘for she gave me a great deal of
                    information on a subject I am intensely interested in.’
                ‘And what,’ said Strange, with a somewhat uneasy smile, ‘and what, may I ask, is
                    that?’
                ‘I am interested, doctor, in poor creatures like Number Twenty-seven—’
                ‘Ah!’ sighed Strange, frowning slightly, as he reached out his hand to the glass
                    of Château Lafite which the butler had just poured carefully out, holding the
                    bottle in its wicker cage like a very treasure, lest one drop of the dregs
                    should reach the glass.
                
                ‘Dear Miss Alison, those are terrible cases. They are cankerous evils, eating
                    away the very life of our social system.’
                Alison looked at him, and there was a royal scorn in her glance. What, he was
                    going to brazen it out, then; to pretend that she was nothing to him?
                ‘My dear doctor,’ she said, very slowly and softly, ‘you forget that Mr. Lecky
                    maintains that, on the contrary, Number Twenty-seven is the martyr of
                    civilisation.’
                ‘It is a subject,’ murmured Strange, with a slight movement of the shoulders,
                    ‘which I must admit I find painful to discuss with young ladies.’
                ‘Ah!’ said Alison, in her quiet, serious voice, ‘but then I am not a “young
                    lady.” I am only a woman, taking a great deal of interest in others of my own
                    sex. The girl, at any rate, seems to be what we are now agreed to call a
                    ‘morally deficient person’—one, in fact, who has urgent claims on all men's
                    honour, on all women's pity. Properly trained and protected, she might have been
                    well, happy, and a tolerably useful member of society. Think of it! That woman
                    was younger than I am. If I had only known her earlier, who knows? I might have
                    been her friend; I might have saved her from—’
                ‘Possibly,’ replied the doctor, coolly, ‘but meanwhile—’
                
                ‘Meanwhile the girl has succumbed. She died to-day.’
                There was a burst of laughter from each side of the table. The Attorney-General
                    had just told his newest story. Dr. Dunlop Strange was carefully peeling a fine
                    pear as she spoke. In the pause that followed he continued to separate the fruit
                    from its perfumed skin, bending a little, in his short-sighted way, over his
                    Sèvres plate. All his future life, he knew, was involved in her next few
                    words.
                ‘My dear Miss Ives,’ he said, with something of his consulting-room manner,
                    ‘pray, don't judge hastily. You have probably only heard half her story. Do you,
                    now, really know anything about her?’
                ‘Yes,’ said Alison, abruptly. And, as she looked him straight in the eyes, he
                    knew that she was aware of the whole sordid story. ‘I'm not particularly
                    sentimental, as you know,’ she added; ‘but I've made up my mind that that poor
                    creature shall be decently buried in the little country churchyard in Sussex, in
                    the village where she used to live. I should like her to rest now—for good.
                    Shall I make the necessary arrangements, or will you,’ she added with a shade of
                    irony, ‘prefer, perhaps, to do so—?’
                They were standing up now, for the ladies, gathering up their fans and gloves,
                    were about to leave the room. He looked at her
                    humbly, imploringly, but the beautiful candid eyes were quite hard.
                ‘I—I—perhaps it would be better, on the whole, if you allowed me to see to
                    it.’
                Nothing more was said. He sat down again when she was gone, staring blankly at
                    the fruit-strewn plates and half-drained glasses, at the tall flower-stands and
                    flickering candles. Her crumpled napkin fell across his knee, and, as it fell,
                    he saw, with a shudder, a vision of a stiff, silent figure in the hospital
                    mortuary. He could hear the rustle of silk dresses, and the sound of feminine
                    voices as the ladies trailed upstairs. And he knew as he heard them go that it
                    was all over. Yes, it was all over, for she, at any rate, was not one of those
                    girls who have infinite complaisances for a possible husband.
                A man drew up his chair, asked for a light, and began to talk of a bit of scandal
                    that was then enjoying high favour at the clubs. Strange stared at him with
                    haggard eyes, got up, made some excuse, and left the house.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XIX
                ALISON ARRANGES A MATCH
                TWO or three days after the dinner in Portman Square, as Mary was trying
                    to impart an air of reality to her ‘society’ article in The
                            Fan—a task at which she was busy on three mornings of
                    every month—a pencil note was brought from Alison, dated, to her surprise, from
                    Portman Square.
                ‘Dear little girl,’ it said, ‘I'm down with an awful cold—bronchitis, I think.
                    The doctor says I'm not to get up. It's such a nuisance my being seedy, because
                    to-day is Evelina's wedding-day. She's to be married at 2.30. Will you, like a
                    dear, go and see that she's dressed, and bring her here to me? And my
                    presents—the tea-service, and the work-basket, and the new cot for the baby—see
                    that she has them, won't you?—Yours, ALISON.’
                ‘Tell the man,’ said Mary to the stolid maid-of-all-work, who was waiting, with
                    pendant red hands and slightly open mouth, at the door, ‘that I shall be round in half an hour.’ There were
                    still another dozen lines to write. The thing must be neatly turned, made
                    acidulous and sparkling. It took some fifteen minutes of writing and scratching
                    out. Then mechanically she ran her eye once again over the lines, tied up the
                    sheets of MSS., and directed it to the editor before she left the house.
                Mary found the bride all dressed and ready when she reached the flat. Always a
                    silent girl, who accepted things as they came, Evelina seemed to-day paralysed
                    with the excitement of her position. In silence they drove in a four-wheel cab
                    to Portman Square. Lady Jane, with an uneasy look on her plump, worldly face,
                    was issuing from Alison's bedroom when they got upstairs.
                ‘That's so kind of you, my dear Mary. Go in—go in. My poor Alison wishes to see
                    you. And this, no doubt, is the young person she is so interested in. My dear
                    child has such a good heart. You will stay, will you not, while darling Alison
                    is poorly? I have to go to a meeting of the Primrose League—the dear Primrose
                    League. And, Mary, my child,’ she added, as she rustled down the stairs in her
                    ample garments, ‘kindly ask my maid, as you're near my room, to bring down my
                    bottle of lavender-salts—the strong ones with the gold top.’
                
                Alison was sitting up in bed, with her head slightly bent forward in a fit of
                    coughing, as they stepped inside. It was in a large, gay-looking bedroom that
                    she lay—a room furnished by Lady Jane in a style which she considered suitable
                    to an unmarried daughter. There were many chintz draperies, patterned with
                    sprawling pink roses; the pillows were trimmed with deep lace, and the ample
                    silk eider-down quilt was of a piercing blue. Little pot-bellied Loves disported
                    themselves on the round looking-glass, and a number of slim gold-and-white
                    chairs were placed about the room. A bronchitis-kettle was steaming near the
                    bed, and bright sunshine lay along the counterpane and in patches on the
                    carpet.
                ‘Here she is!’ said Mary; and Evelina, with loudly-creaking boots, stepped, gawky
                    and embarrassed in her finery, to the bedside, her red cheeks and wrists
                    accentuated by the pallor of her soiled white-silk frock. A wreath of stiff kid
                    orange-blossoms lay on her wiry, dark hair, from which hung backwards a veil of
                    white tulle. One of the thumbs of her white silk gloves had already ripped up.
                    On her ample bosom heaved and fell a gold locket, containing a curl of the
                    baby's hair.
                ‘Kiss me, my dear,’ whispered Alison; ‘I hope you are going to be very, very
                    happy. I'm so sorry I can't be at the wedding.’
                
                ‘Oh, Miss Alison,’ cried the girl, ‘I'm so sorry you're—you're not well. Joe and
                    me, we'd both like to put the wedding off till you could come—’
                ‘Don't wait for that, Evelina,’ said Alison, an anxious look crossing her
                    forehead; ‘you mustn't wait for that. Mary, you'll go with her to the church,
                    and see that the wedding breakfast—’
                ‘Yes, yes, dear, Don't tire yourself thinking about it all. How did you catch
                    this dreadful—cold?’
                ‘Waiting for an omnibus in the Mile End Road. You know—that night of the dinner
                    here. I had been to the hospital. I must have caught a chill.’
                ‘Alison, I'm coming back.’
                ‘Oh, yes. Good-bye, my dear Evelina. I wish I could have been with you to-day,’
                    she said, wistfully. ‘I hope you'll like the little house; and mind you look
                    after Joe, and keep him steady. Good-bye, good luck!’
                And a few minutes later the pink cheeks, the second-hand wedding-dress, and the
                    creaking boots were being conveyed in a four-wheeled cab towards matrimonial
                    respectability.
                Alison wanted to hear all about it when Mary got back.
                ‘Well, and what did she say?’ asked the sick woman.
                
                ‘She didn't say anything. Brides never do,’ said Mary.
                ‘And how did Joe behave?’
                ‘As far as I could make out, he was terrified at me, and as I saw that, in all
                    probability, he would eat nothing as long as I was there, I made an excuse, and
                    left the wedding-feast, no doubt to the intense relief of the guests.’
                ‘And the baby—my dear fat thing?’
                ‘Oh, the baby,’ said Mary, ‘apparently belongs to the new anti-marriage movement.
                    He doesn't approve, it would seem, of any legalising of the bond which unites
                    his father and mother. At any rate, he screamed till he was purple in the face,
                    and had to be removed from the room by a first cousin of his mamma's, a young
                    lady who wore more ostrich feathers than I have ever seen on one human head. And
                    as for poor Evelina,’ continued Mary, laughing, ‘I'm afraid, after all the pains
                    you've taken, you haven't developed in her a sense of humour. Otherwise she
                    wouldn't have insisted on being married in a second-hand white silk dress.’
                ‘You don't understand,’ protested Alison. ‘I think that it shows a certain vague
                    hankering after the ideal—a sort of élan
                    towards the unattainable.’
                ‘Nonsense! she ought to have been married in a good stout waterproof.’
                
                ‘Well, thank goodness, we're not all sensible. How dull it would be if we
                    were!’
                ‘I must say the kid orange-blossoms and the reach-me-down wedding-dress quite
                    made my joy.’
                ‘You're an unsympathetic beast,’ said Alison, tossing on her rumpled pillows.
                        ‘I shouldn't have laughed. I know these people so
                    much better than you do.’
                Presently she fell into a doze, and Mary sat at the window, trying to read, but
                    with her eyes and thoughts constantly on the bed, where Alison was tossing about
                    in a curiously restless manner.
                ‘Little Mary!’ came a voice from the bed presently.
                ‘Yes, dear?’
                ‘Promise me that you will never, never do anything to hurt another woman,’ said
                    the sick girl, running her finger along the pattern on the counterpane. ‘I don't
                    suppose for an instant you ever would. But there come times in our lives when we
                    can do a great deal of good, or an incalculable amount of harm. If women only
                    used their power in the right way! If we were only united we could lead the
                    world. But we're not—we're not,’ she said, closing her eyes with a tired
                    gesture.
                ‘Ah!’ said Mary slowly, ‘but we shall be by and by. All we modern women are
                        going to help each other, not to hinder.
                    And there's a great deal to do—’
                ‘Yes, and we've all so little time,’ said Alison, regretfully. ‘Do you remember
                    the hospital, and that poor girl, Number Twenty-seven?’
                ‘Yes, of course. What makes you think of her?’ faltered Mary.
                ‘She's dead, you know. It can't be nice to die in a hospital, can it? The ugly,
                    long ward, those ghastly, twitching faces on the pillows, the students staring
                    at you, then the mortuary, and a pauper's funeral.’
                ‘Don't talk about it, Alison.’
                ‘And yet that girl,’ muttered the sick woman, ‘was Dunlop Strange's mistress. He
                    made her what she was.’
                ‘Oh, Alison, are you sure?’
                Alison nodded.
                ‘I thought at first it might be a got-up story—one hears of such things, you
                    know. But it was true, quite true. She had his photographs, his letters, little
                    things that belonged to him. Mary, that wretched creature was a respectable
                    girl—a shop assistant—when she first saw him. No, it isn't a pretty world!’
                ‘And Dr. Strange? Does he know?’
                ‘I told him that night at the dinner. I was furious. He tried to brave it out, to
                    pretend he knew nothing about her. I hope,’ she added, while the anxious look deepened on her forehead,
                    ‘that I shall never have to see him again. You won't,’ she said excitedly, ‘let
                    them bring him up here, to me?’
                ‘No, no, of course not.’
                But the thing seemed to have taken possession of her mind.
                ‘When did you see her, Mary?’ she asked presently. ‘You seemed to know her when
                    we stopped at that bed.’
                ‘I only saw her once in the Regent's Park, waiting about for some one. I
                    remembered her face perfectly—it made an impression on me. It—it was that day at
                    the end of July when—when I expected Vincent back—’
                ‘That was the day they pulled her out of the canal—the slimy green canal. She got
                    fourteen days for that. The magistrate said it was a painful case, and that he
                    would let her off easily.’
                ‘They might have let her drown. It would have been better,’ replied Mary, gazing
                    into the firelight.
                ‘She never said a word about him,’ said Alison presently, ‘she never
                    mentioned his name. Lots of girls would have made a scandal, out of revenge.
                    There must have been some good in her. It was only quite at the last that I knew
                    for certain.’
                
                The winter dusk fell early in the spacious bed-room. There was a terrible tension
                    in the air. The very atmosphere seemed charged with feminine emotion, as the two
                    girls, exaggerating, as over-refined women will, the importance of ethical
                    standards of conduct in the great teeming universe, talked on and on in the
                    gathering gloom.
                It was dark when Lady Jane returned, bringing with her large, pink cheeks, her
                    parted hair, her rustling silk clothes, an air at once motherly and mundane into
                    the sick room.
                ‘I shall insist, my darling, on your seeing some one else,’ she announced in her
                    rather loud but cheery voice. ‘I can quite understand your not wishing to see
                    our dear Dunlop, for we women,’ she added with a sigh, ‘all have our little
                    coquetries. But what objection can you have to seeing Danby? I shall send round
                    at once to Travers Danby.’
                But the great man, when he finally arrived, preserved an impenetrable mask in the
                    presence of Alison, of her mother, and of Mary. A prolonged consultation with
                    the other doctor resulted in frequent doses of brandy or port wine being
                    ordered, and an admission, just at the hall-door, that the case was serious.
                Mary went down to the dining-room when the bell rang, leaving Alison's old nurse
                    at the 
                        bed-
                        bedside
                     side. Lady Jane's one idea was that
                    Dunlop Strange should be called in.
                ‘If she would only see him,’ she reiterated for the fifth time, shaking her head
                    tragically when the butler offered her a savoury, ‘he is so clever with chest
                    complaints, so marvellously, marvellously clever! Why, he cured Kempton—Lord
                    Sandown's eldest son—when he was positively given up by every doctor in London.
                    And they say the poor young man had led a perfectly shocking life.’
                ‘Dear Lady Jane,’ urged Mary, ‘pray don't insist on it to her. It would be worse
                    than useless—it really would do harm.’ She had made up her mind to say nothing
                    about ‘Number Twenty-seven,’ and her sordid little tragedy. Lady Jane was kind
                    and charming, but she had retained the prejudices of ladies who were young in
                    the fifties. In all probability she would only call the dead girl some
                    old-fashioned hard names. Certainly she would never comprehend her daughter's
                    extremely modern sympathy for this woman who had drawn her last breath in a
                    hospital ward.
                It was settled that Mary should remain all night at the bedside. There were a
                    dozen things to think of: food, stimulants, medicines, blisters. She ran over
                    carefully in her mind all that she would have to do during the night. Lady
                        Jane said she would lie down in the next
                    room but with the door open, to listen.
                Towards ten o'clock, the sick girl sat up, saying she could breathe easier in
                    that position.
                ‘Oh, how I hate being ill,’ she muttered, clenching her fingers as they lay on
                    the counter-pane. ‘Mary,’ she continued, while the irritable anxious look
                    deepened on her face for she had to stop—‘I feel,’ she gasped at last, ‘as if I
                    were choking.’
                ‘Dear,’ said the other girl, ‘why don't you lie down?’
                ‘I can't—I can't breathe if I do. Mary, do you think I shall be ill long? I've
                    always hated being ill. There is the personal degradation—one looks odious, one
                        is odious.’
                ‘Dear, you will be all right again in a day or two,’ urged Mary.
                ‘Oh! I don't mean that,’ she muttered, falling back. ‘It doesn't matter; nothing
                    matters, nothing matters,’ she went on till she fell into an uneasy dose. She
                    was lying tossing from one side to the other with her head lower than her
                    shoulders, when Dr. Danby came again at eleven.
                ‘How long has the patient been in that position?’ whispered the great man.
                    Something in the tone of his voice made her heart stand still.
                ‘She's been lying like that all the time— when
                    she isn't sitting up coughing,’ faltered the girl.
                ‘Ah! We must keep up the patient's strength in every way. It's very serious now,
                    Miss Erle.’
                Mary heard the words, but they sounded a long way off.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XX
                THE GATE OF SILENCE
                ‘I WILL not, while I have health and strength,’ said Lady Jane severely
                    at the breakfast table, when the question of a trained nurse was mooted,
                    ‘consent to have my child nursed by a hireling. It is a mother's duty,’ she
                    continued, with lofty decision, regarding Mary and her red, tired eyelids
                    somewhat reproachfully. And Lady Jane, to be sure, was convinced that she
                    herself had tended the sick girl through the night. Mary remembered, with
                    something like a smile, that once or twice during that long vigil, her hostess,
                    arrayed in a somewhat short night-dress, scantily covered by a pink
                    dressing-gown, had stepped ponderously into the room, upset one or two medicine
                    bottles, and poured some beef-tea into a glass which contained lemonade. Lady
                    Jane had the best intentions, but nature had not cut her out for a sick nurse.
                    She was short-sighted and easily perturbed, and her natural emotions overcame
                    her so much that once she retreated in tears,
                    carrying away in her distraction the bottle of medicine which was to be
                    administered every hour.
                ‘No,’ reiterated the mother; ‘not while I have health and strength. I shall go to
                    her myself immediately.’
                The hours passed mournfully enough. There was no improvement during the day.
                    Alison sat up in bed, propped up with pillows, while her strength lasted. Her
                    face, which had gradually turned livid, was covered with a clammy perspiration.
                    Every now and again she pushed back the damp strands of hair from her forehead.
                    The fits of choking became more frequent; she had no longer the strength to
                    battle with them.
                ‘Mary,’ she whispered once during the morning, ‘my feet look so odd. They are
                    swelling—I wonder why?’ She pushed one foot from under the bed-clothes; it was
                    quite disfigured already.
                ‘Funny it looks,’ she muttered. ‘What's his name? the French sculptor—you
                    know—modelled my foot once. It would be horrid’—she stared vacantly at the
                    little swollen foot, while Mary bent down and rearranged the bed-clothes—‘to
                    have great fat feet like that. Mary, do you think they will get slim again when
                    I am well?’
                
                ‘My darling, of course, of course.’
                Again the sick woman fell into an uneasy doze. The doctors' visit brought small
                    comfort. Both bent with anxious faces over the bed. Little could be done but to
                    administer strong restoratives. The two physicians feared some cerebral
                    complication.
                ‘Had the patient,’ they asked Lady Jane, ‘recently had any mental shock?’
                ‘Certainly not, certainly not. My poor darling,’ replied the mother, ‘was the
                    picture of health and happiness. Impossible that she should have had any trouble
                    of which I am not aware,’ she announced, with all an old woman's fatuity.
                The two doctors glanced at each other and said nothing. Mary detained the elder
                    man downstairs.
                ‘Tell me the truth,’ she said.
                ‘My dear young lady, I fear there is nothing—absolutely nothing—that can be done.
                    The patient is sinking rapidly. In all probability she will not live through
                    another day. It would be well if you could break it to her poor mother.’
                Mary stood still for a minute, leaning against the passage wall, as the two
                    doctors closed the door softly. She heard the two carriages roll away—rolling
                    away to other sick rooms, to pronounce,
                    perhaps, another sentence of death before they reached home. It was nothing to
                    them, she remembered; nothing, nothing, nothing. People died every day. Every
                    day people were born. Some had to go, these men of science would say, to make
                    way for others.
                ‘There seems to be no change—for the better,’ whispered Lady Jane an hour later,
                    as they both stood at the bedside. ‘She is still asleep, and muttering, my poor
                    darling. If we could only rouse her, now. I shall insist on Danby seeing her
                    again,’ she added feverishly, patting her eyes with a lace handkerchief.
                Mary looked at the slight figure in the bed.
                ‘Dear Lady Jane,’ she said softly, ‘I don't think we shall ever—be able to rouse
                    her now.’ It struck her as curiously odd that she should be saying this to the
                    woman near her—this woman that she always pictured at dinner-parties and drums,
                    tapping people with her fan, carrying her bare shoulders and her little stories
                    from drawing-room to drawing-room in the eternal monotony of good society. With
                    a thing so poignant, so human, so pitiful as death, it seemed impossible that
                    this charming lady could ever be associated.
                The mother broke down completely, and had to be led away.
                Towards four o'clock someone knocked at the
                    door, bringing up letters for Mary. They had been sent round from the lodgings
                    in Bulstrode Street. There were several letters: one from Jimmie, one from her
                    bootmaker, and one she saw, with a curious tight feeling at her heart, was from
                    Vincent, and bore a Northborough post-mark. Going to the window, she bent
                    forward in the failing light and broke the seal. 
                        Northborough, Dec. 3rd.
                        ‘MY DEAR MARY,—You are perhaps aware that to-morrow is fixed for my
                            marriage, and it is no exaggeration to say that I shall not feel happy
                            when I stand at the altar in the morning unless I have a word of
                            blessing from you, my oldest and most valued friend, on this most
                            auspicious occasion. Although I trust that changed circumstances will
                            not to any great extent separate us, yet I cannot help expressing the
                            hope that such uncommon virtues, intellectual powers and remarkable
                            perseverance [the word ‘virtues’ had been added as an after-thought, and
                            was squeezed in between ‘uncommon’ and ‘intellectual’] as are happily
                            yours, may be speedily and justly rewarded.’—Ever your devoted
                            friend,
                        ‘VINCENT HEMMING.’
                    
                Then she deliberately opened the other letters. There was a small cheque from a
                        newspaper; a little note—very
                    affectionate—from Jimmie, requesting the loan of three pounds; and lastly, a
                    bootmaker's bill. Jimmie wanted three pounds, to be forwarded immediately. It
                    was annoying—he was always asking for money, in little notes full of the most
                    endearing epithets. Well, there was the present cheque. It was for three
                    guineas—the price of one of her articles—so she could send him a post-office
                    order. As for the bootmaker, he would have to wait. There was something absurd,
                    incongruous about that bootmaker's bill. And yet after all, one had to pay one's
                    boot bill, even if one's lover was going to be married in the morning.
                She felt a curious tightening in her chest, a horrible feeling in her head, as if
                    the brain were pressing against the skull. Something had to be done—to be done
                    at once, she kept saying to herself. Yes, Vincent must be congratulated. Her
                    pride was up in arms. It would be undignified to look as if she were considering
                    the matter. Women, she bethought her with a grim smile, should accept their fate
                    with a graceful acquiescence.
                And at once Mary made up her mind that she would not write, although there was
                    just time to catch the country post. It would be better to telegraph. She would
                    go herself to the nearest office. Gathering up
                    her letters, she crept to the bedside. Alison was asleep. Bending down she
                    kissed the white wrist that lay on the counterpane, and then, telling the maid
                    not to move from the sick-room, she threw on her hat and cloak and left the
                    house in the gathering dusk. It was not far to the nearest post-office, in Baker
                    Street, and once inside she carefully wrote out a post-office order for Jimmie.
                    Then she took a telegraph form and wrote two or three different phrases with the
                    blunt pencil tied to a short piece of string. Finally, when she had scratched
                    out two or three messages, she handed the paper across to the clerk. ‘I wish you
                    all possible happiness.—Mary,’ read out the young man in his everyday,
                    unemotional voice, and then the girl found herself outside, walking rapidly down
                    Baker Street towards the Regent's Park. ‘I must walk; I must breathe the open
                    air,’ she said to herself, ‘or I shall never be able to sit up again all
                    to-night.’
                The gates of the Regent's Park were shut, but she walked on, round the outer
                    circle, seeing nothing, for her brain was busy with two overpowering thoughts,
                    the awful struggle with death, the protest against annihilation which was slowly
                    being fought out in that bedroom in Portman Square, and the fact that
                    henceforward she was to walk alone, to fight the battle of life unaided—a moral starveling, whose natural instincts
                    were to be pinched, repressed, and neatly trimmed in conformity with the rules
                    of the higher civilisation. And, in sooth, it was in accordance with the
                    inexorable laws of the higher civilisation that so priceless a boon as a loyal
                    love should weigh as nothing when balanced with a thing which had a nicely
                    ascertained value in the money market.
                Pausing on the North Gate bridge, she looked down into the dark canal water, on
                    to which the last shivering autumnal leaves were slowly fluttering down. She
                    thought of the girl—of Number Twenty-seven—who had tried to drown herself in
                    those greenish, slimy waters. After all, it was but the Open Door of the Greek
                    philosophers which she had tried to slip through with uncertain, unsuccessful
                    feet....
                The curve of the road outside was all a silvery grey. Road, sky, and pavement
                    were clothed in the same neutral tint, but the street lamps made an orange
                    sickle of fire, heightened on the other side by the indigo blueness of the park,
                    etched with intricate lines of bare stems and branches. The scarlet of a
                    mail-cart flashed past, and afterwards, in the solitude of the grey road, a
                    shabby, belated mourning carriage. There was a flapping of dingy white scarves
                    as the dyed horses, with lowered heads, moved
                    dejectedly away into the growing dusk, leaving a vision of rusty black clothes
                    and of vague, drab faces gazing from the carriage-window on to the sombre, naked
                    trees.
                Mary shuddered. ‘I must get back,’ she thought, and calling a hansom, she was, in
                    ten minutes, mounting the stairs again to the sick room in Portman Square.
                Mary hardly dared look when she reached the bedroom again. The sick girl, propped
                    up on pillows, was battling for life with her breath. The distended jugular
                    veins told of the fearful struggle; the lips were livid, the fingers clenched.
                    The beautiful brown eyes were turned on her mother with the look of a tortured
                    animal; then her head fell forward, and they laid her length-wise on the
                    bed.
                Alison lay long in a state of somnolence. In the silence of the large bedroom, in
                    which the only other sound was that of the sprightly French clock on the
                    mantelpiece, ticking away the hours, the sick woman's delirious mutterings
                    seemed of fearful importance to the watchers round the bed. What was she
                    saying—she who was never to speak any more? Long after, Mary remembered the last
                    coherent words she had said: ‘Will my feet get slim again when I am well?’
                The long night began. Alison still lay prone,
                    but the breathing was now stertorous, with a kind of rattle in the throat. Dr.
                    Danby, summoned again by Lady Jane, implored her to be calm, for the end could
                    not be long. But to Mary, during the endless hours of that December night, the
                    end seemed long in coming. It tortured her to see the one human being for whom
                    she cared now in the world, dying that terrible death of suffocation. Towards
                    midnight, the strain on Mary became intense. Alison fell into a doze, and then
                    Mary crept, for a few moments, into the next room and threw open a window. The
                    injustice of life revolted her. Her misery was too poignant for tears. When she
                    was a little child she used to stiffen herself with silent rage when any one
                    accused or struck her unjustly. The girl felt something of that hardened feeling
                    now. And so Alison, too, was to go. The last grim, speechless battle with
                    annihilation was slowly being fought out in that gay, beflowered bedroom.
                It was a still winter night, and a great round moon looked over the tops of the
                    tall houses opposite, like a white, surprised face. The sounds of the ponderous,
                    buzzing city entered in at the window with the whiff of fresh air; the rattle of
                    cabs and omnibuses; voices of the passers-by. Carriages were driving round the
                    square; somebody, two doors off, was giving a
                    dinner-party. On the steps was a little cluster of footmen. Presently the hall
                    door opened, there was a rush of light, and the figures of two ladies, in white
                    cloaks and laces, passed from under the portico. The click of the carriage door
                    was audible, the word ‘Home!’ and the sound of retreating wheels. Presently a
                    couple of men left, lighting their cigars as they went down the steps, and
                    striding off on foot to the sounds of amused laughter. But presently the square
                    was silent. Not a branch stirred. Only the great white moon rose higher in the
                    heavens with her cold, triumphant air.
                Mary sank on her knees at the open window, her forehead pressed against the
                    sill.
                ‘Why could it not have been I?’ she moaned. ‘No one wants me, no one cares for
                    me; while Alison—. O God! O God! and must I go on living—?’
                And then she remembered that Death, the great destroyer, had an irony which is
                    all his own. Beautiful, noble, helpful lives were crushed, destroyed,
                    annihilated. Death made no more account of them than a schoolboy does of a
                    beetle, on whom, in passing by, he tramps wantonly in a ditch. A minute ago they
                    breathed, and hoped, and loved; another minute in the æons of time, and the
                    insect was a mere blotch of slime, one's passionately loved idol lay rotting under the sod. And for a little while, if
                    they were lucky, the idols were remembered, but more often their memories, too,
                    passed away.
                The burden of sex, the lust of life, the torture of the ideal, the unslaked
                    thirst for immortality, had all been theirs; but always others came to take
                    their places, to suffer the same agonies, to be thrilled, for a brief moment,
                    with the same fears and pleasures. And always the long procession moved on, and
                    on, and on; some fell out, but others jostled forward; the ranks were filled up;
                    there was small time for tears. Yes, for ever the great army of humanity moved
                    on, on its strange inexplicable march from a mother's womb to six feet of oozing
                    clay.
                The long hours of the night dragged slowly by. In the sick room the only sounds
                    were the ticking of the French clock and the terrible, ominous rattle from the
                    lace-trimmed pillows. It was nearing dawn. Restless and hysterical with grief,
                    the mother had run out to write one more vain summons to the doctor. Outside,
                    there were women's voices, sobbing on the stair-case. Mary sat by the bedside,
                    waiting for the dawn, waiting for the dread inexorable moment. And then, just
                    when there came creeping in behind the blind the wan, drabbish light of the
                    December daybreak—of the morning which Mary remembered with a kind of stunned 
                        feel-
                        feeling
                     ing was to be that of Vincent
                    Hemming's marriage—a strange noise from the pillows made her heart stand still
                    in her body. And suddenly she was aware that there was no sound at all in the
                    sick room but the pert click of the little gilt clock on the mantelpiece,
                    ticking, ticking, ticking, glibly away.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XXI
                THE WORLD WAGS ON
                FIVE years had passed.
                All day long the streets had been full of carriages going and coming from
                    Buckingham Palace. The spring sunshine fell on the pink arms, the thin bare
                    shoulders of young girls on the back seats of broughams and closed barouches,
                    which passed swiftly by, leaving a vision of a foam of tulle, an excited young
                    face, a cascade of flowers, or the large complacent bosom of a chaperon.
                Some of these carriages stopped, towards five o'clock, at Lady Jane Ives' in
                    Portman Square. The drawing-room was already spread with shining satin trains,
                    and heavy with the odour of slightly faded hothouse flowers, before the hostess
                    herself appeared, for Lady Jane was presenting a niece, and had been late in
                    getting away from the palace. One or two men, vaguely bored, strayed about with
                    uncertain feet among the yards of satin and brocade which covered the floor; and
                    the women, in their nodding plumes and foolish
                    trains, seemed conscious of their wrinkled throats and faded skins, as they
                    stood, with a somewhat forced smile, receiving the usual compliments.
                But very soon Lady Jane appeared, swimming into the room with her large smile,
                    and her ruby velvet train, and having behind her a young girl in white, with
                    puffy pink cheeks and an alarmed air.
                ‘My niece, Victoria,’ she announced to every one, in her rapid, genial manner.
                    ‘Presented today; my brother's girl, you know. Dear Victoria is so devoted to
                    society; she is going to stay with me. It will be quite charming.’
                And Mr. Beaufort Flower, with a huge white button-hole which accentuated the
                    dingy yellow of his skin, and with several tell-tale wrinkles at the corners of
                    his eyes, murmured to Mr. Bosanquet-Barry as he gazed with half-closed lids at
                    the new candidate for society's favours;—
                ‘I adore drawing-room teas. One sees so much of people, don't you
                    know. And in the daylight, too, one gets such a good idea of what they are
                    really like,’ he tittered, turning to where Lady Blaythewaite's creamy white
                    shoulders were illuminated by the full glare from the window, the sunlight
                    sparkling on the diamond tiara round her forehead.
                ‘She's got her best “fender” on,’ said Mr.
                    Bosanquet-Barry, with rising interest, ‘by Jove! did you ever see such jewels?
                    And what a skin! She looks like some superb animal.’
                ‘Oh, no, she don't,’ whispered Beaufy, in his acidulous voice, ‘animals never
                    look depraved. And for my part, I don't admire her so much as all that. Poor
                    Lady Blay is so odiously, blatantly healthy.’
                The room was nearly full when Mary came up the stairs. A stout lady in green,
                    whose extremities looked extraordinarily large in their white coverings, thrust
                    a bouquet of spiked flowers in her eye as she reached the landing, and then
                    stared, with all the impertinence of a certain kind of British matron, when the
                    girl stepped back, annoyed.
                ‘Oh, dear Miss Erle,’ said a shrill voice at the door,
                        ‘do come in. It's such a nice party. I wonder,’ continued Mr.
                    Beaufort Flower, who entertained a good deal himself, ‘why other people's
                    parties are so much nicer than one's own? I suppose it is because one always
                    knows so many more people at other people's houses?’
                ‘Who is here?’ said Mary, who never troubled herself to laugh at his small
                    witticisms.
                ‘All sorts of pretty people. There's Lady Blaythewaite, “looking magnificent in
                    yellow.”’ He always made a point of praising other women when he talked to
                    ladies, in the pleasing hope that it would
                    annoy them. ‘She never misses going to Court once a year; but really, you know,
                    she's got to! There's the Duchess of Birkenhead now,’ he chattered on, ‘she's
                    only been once since her marriage, you know. But then she needn't, because she's
                    so perfectly, so entirely respectable!’ And he disappeared with a delighted
                    little wriggle in the crowd, and a few minutes later Mary saw him pouring his
                    sub-acid compliments into Lady Blaythewaite's ear.
                        
                        '
                    
                There was some attempt at animation in the rooms now. There were crowds of ladies
                    as well as those who had been to Court, and a hired pianist, making tinkling
                    sounds on a somewhat worn piano, was endeavouring to impart a false air of
                    gaiety to the affair. The words, ‘the Queen,’ ‘the Princess,’ ‘heliotrope
                    brocade,’ ‘exquisite diamonds,’ and ‘fearful crush,’ were bandied about the
                    room. Some one related a story that a Colonial lady of much wealth had been
                    turned away because she had worn tan-coloured gloves, and an ancient legend even
                    found listeners that a young girl had fallen over her train while backing from
                    the Royal presence. A woman with pronounced Jewish features, who wore a smart
                    bonnet and a French frock, explained at some length to an indifferent group what
                    had happened when she had been presented last year. And, as she stood talking to Mr. Bosanquet-Barry, who had, as usual,
                    his air of not wishing to be detained, the lady whom Mary remembered in the old
                    days as a player on the harp, had placed a piece of music on the piano, and was
                    singing in an elderly, threadbare voice, and an accent which left much to be
                    desired, something which sounded like— 
                        ‘Allong cueillir lay roas-er.’
                     lifting her eyebrows, standing on tip-toe, and slightly wriggling her
                    shoulders as the song proceeded.
                Mary looked round the room. It all seemed foolish enough; the women with their
                    naked, yellow shoulders, their torn veils and faded flowers, the men slipping in
                    and out in their neat frock coats, murmuring scandal of the very people whose
                    hands they had just pressed. She could not bear the house since Alison's death.
                    The rooms seemed noisy and yet empty without her. It was the same outwardly, for
                    here were the usual crowd, chattering, smiling, whispering, as they passed in
                    and out. And only she, Mary, seemed to remember. Lady Jane, to be sure, had been
                    immersed in grief for some months after the death, but the next season she had
                    reappeared in mauve and black, and had resumed her round of drums and dinners.
                    All that had happened five years ago. This was the second niece that she had successfully launched in society;
                    the first had made an excellent match, and Lady Jane only hoped, in confidence
                    to all her intimate friends, that Victoria would not think of marrying quite so
                    soon, for it was charming, she said—it made her feel quite young again—to have a
                    girl to take out. She never, she complained, had been able to make her poor
                    darling Alison take a proper interest in society; only an eccentric,
                    intermittent one. And people naturally dislike that. 
                        ‘Allons cueillir les ro—’
                     urged the lady at the piano, but her voice, not being very strong, was
                    inaudible at the end of the song, a termination which was received thankfully,
                    with a decent little murmur of applause.
                ‘Dear Sir Dunlop,’ cried Lady Jane in her deep, genial tones at the door, ‘how
                    good of you to find time to drink a dish of tea. Let me introduce to you my
                    niece Victoria. Presented to-day, and so devoted to society. Go in, go in, you
                    will find all your pretty friends in there.’
                And the face of the fashionable doctor, smooth, smug, successful, was seen here
                    and there chatting in the crowd. If the mouth was still hard, the smile was more
                    insinuating than ever. A voluptuous feminine atmosphere surrounded him as he moved about, as pretty women bent
                    forward to whisper, meeting his eyes with an intimate look, or laying detaining,
                    half-caressing fingers on his arm. All of these charming ladies had been, were
                    now, or would be, his patients. His reputation had grown apace in the last five
                    years; no one could have the megrims in Belgravia or Mayfair without consulting
                    Sir Dunlop Strange. Reports of his approaching marriage were constantly
                    circulated, but at present, it would seem, there was a barrier in the way; for
                    he was understood to be devoted to Lady Blaythewaite. And indeed, as he neared
                    the window where she was still standing, the circle of black coats which
                    surrounded her dissolved, and they stood practically alone, looking out on the
                    square. The lady slowly turned her handsome, prominent eyes upon him, and, with
                    a long gaze which took in every detail of her radiant health and beauty, he
                    slipped his nervous, sinewy fingers round her wrist in the shadow of the
                    curtain.
                Mary was standing near the door, trying to get a breath of air, when the pale,
                    town-bred face of Perry Jackson was seen ascending the stair, but she
                    instinctively stepped aside, not knowing whether he would care to speak to her.
                    She heard Lady Jane overwhelm him with pretty phrases, for she was proud of the
                        portrait he had painted of her that year,
                    and adored a new celebrity; but Perry Jackson did not come near Mary, and it was
                    with a somewhat forced smile that he returned her greeting. ‘I have lost my kind
                    little friend,’ she said to herself with a certain bitterness. And then, as
                    Vincent Hemming appeared in the crowd, she said to herself with the
                    inconsistency of a woman, ‘Here, at any rate, is some one who cares for me
                    still—a little bit.’
                The face of Vincent Hemming was that of an irritated, disappointed man. He was,
                    however, as perfectly dressed, as elaborately suave as of old, as he stopped to
                    speak to several dowagers on his way upstairs. It was always half a pleasure,
                    half a pain to her to meet him, and there were times when she felt that the
                    acquiescent feminine smile was a little forced as she talked to him at some
                    crowded party, or called on his wife at Queen's Gate.
                Hemming had made but a brief appearance in the House of Commons, for he had been
                    unseated almost immediately—his agents, it would seem, not having been discreet
                    in the matter of beer; and he had had no opportunity of entering the House
                    since. Meanwhile, Mrs. Vincent Hemming had not made herself popular in London
                    society, and her husband had always a somewhat uneasy air when she was in the same room. Lady Jane Ives, for one, openly
                    snubbed her, and Vincent had arrived at that stage in an unsuccessful marriage
                    when a husband is not offended at being asked out to dinner without his wife. To
                    any other woman but Mary the thing would have been a personal triumph.
                ‘Here is that poor Mr. Hemming that you threw over,’ whispered Lady Jane to Mary;
                    ‘I did not ask his impossible wife. I don't know how a man with such delightful
                    cultured tastes could marry such a person. If it had only been an American, now!
                    An American or an Australian—then nobody would have minded what she said or
                    did.’
                And in a few minutes Mary found herself talking, in a conventional voice, of the
                    rain and the fine weather, of politics and the park, with the man who had once
                    been so much to her. Sometimes, indeed, as he took her down to supper, or handed
                    her a cup of tea, with his little formal manner, she wondered how, in those past
                    years, he had been able to make her suffer so. But Mary was beginning to
                    understand that women love most of all the men who have done them an irreparable
                    wrong.
                His face looked grey and tired, and it was with a visible effort that he found
                    phrases suitable to be overheard by the nodding plumes, the bare shoulders, and
                    the limp nosegays around.
                
                ‘You look tired; are you ill?’ she said suddenly, in her old sweet manner. For a
                    moment Mary had forgotten.
                ‘No; it is nothing. I am a little out of sorts I think,’ he said, avoiding her
                    eyes. Then he added, after a pause, looking straight at the carpet, ‘You don't
                    know, you can't conceive, what worries I have!’
                She said nothing; there was nothing she could say. But he looked miserable, and
                    all her tender, womanly little heart rushed out to him.
                ‘Mayn't I get you a cup of tea?’ he said suddenly, offering her his arm, and
                    turning with an abrupt movement towards the door. Downstairs, there was the
                    usual struggle for a cup, a sugar-basin, a spoon.
                ‘Why mayn't I come and see you sometimes, Mary?’ he said, in his voice which
                    meant so much more than the mere words.
                ‘Oh, Vincent! You've put cream in my tea, and I can't bear it,’ said Mary, with a
                    comical little frown.
                ‘I'm so sorry, and you don't like sugar either. How could I have forgotten it?’
                    said Hemming, wafting it away in his grand manner. ‘But Mary,’ he continued,
                    when he had battled successfully for another cup, ‘why won't you read me some of
                    your work? I used not to be a bad critic,
                    though I do little enough myself now. Why can't we see each other, sometimes,
                    like that?’
                All the blood left her face. It was horrible, horrible of him to talk so; but he
                    must not even guess that she cared.
                ‘Of course,’ she said, after a pause, during which they had been pushed apart by
                    the stout lady with the spiky bouquet, who had come downstairs and was forcing
                    her way with a business-like air to the buffet. ‘I suppose you can come and be
                    victimised by manuscripts—if you want to.’
                ‘When, Mary?’
                ‘Oh,’ she said quickly, ‘not to-morrow. I've got to go to the Strand. But the day
                    after—?’
                ‘Aren't you well? Let me look at you,’ said Hemming, as they went up to the
                    drawing-room again. ‘Come into the light,’ he continued in an authoritative
                    tone. ‘I can't have you getting ill.’
                There was a movement of departure in the crowd. The monstrous trains were being
                    caught up, bouquets were seen moving towards the door. Mr. Beaufort Flower,
                    slipping in and out, was murmuring a last impertinence to a pretty woman on her
                    way downstairs. Lady Jane was beginning to look tired, for at seventy, as she said, one wasn't in the first blush of
                    youth; and Miss Victoria, whose puffy cheeks had assumed a purplish hue,
                    announced to every one, as they made their farewells, that she and her aunt were
                    going to a ball that night, which she expected would be ‘splendid fun.’ Mr.
                    Bosanquet-Barry, who approved of Miss Erle as an occasional contributor because
                    he met her in what he called ‘smart’ houses, bestowed on her a brief vision of
                    all his gleaming teeth as he squeezed her hand and passed on without a word.
                ‘The day after to-morrow, Mary?’ demanded Vincent Hemming, as they stood
                    irresolutely on the doorstep among the little crowd of drab-coated footmen. She
                    hardly noticed Mr. Beaufy Flower, as he skipped past her down the steps,
                    tripping into his brougham and slamming the door with a vicious little click,
                    nor the rather shrill voice, in which there was a triumphant sound, giving the
                    direction: ‘To the Bachelors' Club!’
                Mary stood silent for a moment, gazing at the stone steps. After all, why should
                    she not see Vincent—her old friend, her father's friend? She felt nervous and
                    unstrung; it would be very sweet to have him there, to talk to him in a sensible
                    way. She wanted to ask his advice about Jimmie, for her young brother, who had
                    duly got his exhibition at Magdalen, had done
                    little more during his stay at Oxford than entangle himself with, and finally
                    marry, a scout's daughter. Living by herself in lodgings, she never saw any one;
                    there seemed to be no one now whose advice she could ask.
                ‘Yes, come,’ she said suddenly, in a high, clear tone, and, as she went down the
                    steps and hurried across the square, she was startled herself by the note of
                    exultation in her voice.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XXII
                THE TEMPTATION
                ALTHOUGH she had been thinking of Hemming for hours, the sharp, agitated
                    pull of the bell startled Mary as she sat sorting papers at her desk in the
                    little room, a third room, crowded with bookshelves, which she had been able to
                    add to her domain during the last year.
                ‘Mr. Vincent Hemming,’ said the servant opening the door.
                He shook hands, without a word. Mary knew instinctively that something was wrong,
                    before he spoke.
                ‘We'll have tea, please, Sarah,’ she said, and, until the girl brought in the
                    cups and saucers, they sat exchanging commonplaces a little awkwardly. There was
                    a tight feeling in Mary's throat as she looked at Hemming's drawn face and
                    averted eyes. And yet it was good to have him there, all to herself, sitting
                    opposite to her, sipping his tea, on the deep sofa near the window, his brown
                    eyes looking black against the light.
                
                He got up presently, moving restlessly about the little room, examining with
                    curious eyes the place which was Mary's home. He stopped in front of the
                    old-fashioned writing-table, on which blotting-paper, foolscap, and worn-out
                    pens were scattered. A great odorous bunch of waxen pinkish lilac stood in a jug
                    on the table. On the shelf above the pigeon-holes there was a full-length,
                    slightly-faded photograph of himself.
                ‘And this is where you work?’ he muttered, absently, sitting down in the swing
                    chair, and leaning his elbow, with a tired gesture, on the ink-stained desk.
                    ‘Poor little Mary! Don't you ever paint, now? You used to like it so much.’
                ‘I paint very little. I think this is almost the last open-air thing I ever did,’
                    she added, taking a wooden panel from under a pile of papers and holding it a
                    little way off. ‘It was down there, you know, in that pine-y, heathery place, at
                    Haslemere, where we went before you sailed—’
                ‘I remember,’ he said, gravely.
                And then something tightened at her heart as she stood near him, holding out the
                    sketch. It was the very scene she had so often pictured when she lived here
                    waiting for him to come back. Here was the room, lined with book-shelves; the
                    desk, with Vincent half-turned round, while she held her smudgy little
                        painting up for him to see. Only the years
                    had passed away, and he was another woman's husband, the father of another
                    woman's child....
                ‘I remember,’ he repeated, softly, taking the little nervous hand that hung close
                    to him, and looking at it intently as he held it in his.
                ‘Why Mary, how thin and white you are!’ he said, suddenly. ‘You can't be well.
                    Have you seen Danby?’
                ‘Oh, it's nothing. I'm all right,’ she answered quickly, pulling away her hand.
                    ‘I've been worried about Jimmie. And I've—I've been working rather hard—’
                ‘You can't stand it, you never could,’ he muttered. ‘In the old days you used “to
                    get away—you used to travel with your father.” Good Lord!’ continued Hemming,
                    scrutinising her face with a swift glance which he turned instantly on the
                    chimney stacks opposite, ‘you'll be killing yourself, and for what?’
                ‘One works,’ said Mary, absently, ‘because one must. I'm not a person of wealth
                    and leisure like yourself.’
                Hemming got up and strode up and down the room, his mouth working nervously at
                    the corners as he answered—
                ‘Heaven knows you needn't reproach me about that. If you knew what my life is,
                    Mary,’ he blurted out suddenly, his face turning a dark red, ‘the dreariness, the vulgarity, the commonplace
                    of it.’
                ‘You have your—your—wife, your child,’ she said slowly, her eyes fixed on the
                    empty teacup in her hand, ‘and I—I have nothing.’
                ‘My wife!’ he said derisively. ‘Yes, I have a wife. Someone who sits opposite me
                    at dinner, who pays the bills with her own cheques, who never misses an
                    opportunity of reminding me that I am a failure. I know—I know I'm a failure. I
                    haven't done what she married me for; she has spent her money for nothing. Mary,
                    the egotism of a vulgar woman is something that you cannot even conceive
                    of.’
                ‘Don't talk like that, don't, don't,’ implored Mary. ‘Oh, Vincent, I—it doesn't
                    matter about me,’ she continued, ‘but I can't bear to see you unhappy.’
                She had risen and was standing in front of him, her eyes wet with tears. He took
                    her hands, holding them fast, and bowed his head down, so that his face lay on
                    their joined hands. And in that moment of his humiliation and despair Mary had
                    never loved Vincent Hemming so well.
                ‘My poor, poor dear,’ she muttered with a movement of exquisite maternal
                    tenderness, ‘it will come all right by and by. You will try, won't you, to
                    be—nicer—to her?’ she added with an effort. ‘It must be so easy for husband and wife to make it up. And there is the
                    child—’
                ‘The child,’ he repeated blankly. ‘A thing three years old. And she is jealous if
                    I even look at the baby. Mary, her jealousy is infernal. I can't live with her,
                    I can't, I can't.’
                And then for a moment, Mary Erle tasted the intoxication of a personal triumph.
                    Vincent did not love his wife; he had come back to her, to her. The years seemed
                    to roll away.... In the intimacy of that quiet room it seemed as if time were
                    obliterated; as if nothing had happened. Just as before, in the empty, dusty
                    drawing-room in Harley Street, where he had first asked her for her love, his
                    passion communicated itself to her. He looked at her, and with a sudden fear she
                    stepped backwards, away from him, but he had risen, and his troubled eyes were
                    looking straight into hers.
                And once again, just as on that bygone June afternoon, Mary was drawn, in spite
                    of herself, by the mysterious, inexorable bond of the flesh. Youth, the will to
                    live, the imperious demands of human passion for one moment were to have their
                    way.
                ‘Vin—cent,’ she pleaded, as he held her two wrists like a vice, and then slowly,
                    with a long shudder, she was conscious that his arms were enfolding her. It was
                    good to rest there for a little, to forget, to
                    run an erasing finger over the ugly past, the years of waiting, of
                    disappointment, of unceasing work. To the starved woman it was sweet; so sweet
                    that she stood there, her head bent down, his arms holding her fast.
                ‘Mary, my own little girl! Why won't you look at me? Turn up your face. Let me
                    see your eyes. You belonged to me once, Mary. Look at me, dearest, say you
                    haven't forgotten me altogether? Dear heart, how good it is! No, don't move,
                    don't move, for God's sake. Give me my little bit of happiness,’ he muttered, as
                    she moaned under his caresses, ‘we're not hurting anyone, not anyone, Mary.’
                ‘No,’ she cried at last, breaking away from him. She was trembling from head to
                    foot; all the blood in her body seemed to have rushed to her brain. ‘You're not
                    hurting anyone—but me! You're hurting me—me! You're doing your best to make me a
                    miserable woman.’
                Hemming flung himself on the sofa, with his head buried in the pillows. From the
                    movement of his shoulders, Mary could see that he was sobbing, as she stood at
                    the other end of the little room, supporting herself against the mantelpiece. It
                    was so terrible to see that he, after all, was suffering, and through her. He
                    was one of those men whose rather pompous
                    manner surrounds them like a suit of armour; men whom it is difficult to picture
                    breaking down, feeling acutely, bearing their share of the burden of human
                    suffering.
                ‘Vincent,’ she said softly, crossing over to him, ‘try and be brave, for—for both
                    our sakes. We—we can't help it now. It's all done with long ago—for you and me.
                    Don't forget that. Don't torture me, for God's sake, dear.’
                ‘Understand me, Mary,’ he said, uncovering his face, and speaking rapidly with
                    his eyes fixed on the carpet, ‘I'm not going back to her. I can't, I won't stand
                    it. I'm going away—somewhere—anywhere, where I can be quiet and think. The mail
                    train leaves at eight—I shall catch that, and go straight through to Paris.
                    Mary, dear child,’ he said, drawing her suddenly down beside him on the sofa,
                    ‘come with me. If you wish it, I'll give up everything; my position, my
                    political career, my—my child. Won't you—can't you be to me what she has never
                    been, my real wife?’
                ‘Your real wife!’ repeated Mary, wonderingly. For the first few seconds, she was
                    not conscious of feeling shocked. For years now, this man had been so constantly
                    in her thoughts, he had represented, in the time of his absence, the one poor
                    joy, the starveling hope in her dreary existence, that she was no more horrified
                    than if her own brain had worded the thought:
                    ‘His real wife!’ But she knew, even as he spoke, that this was the end of
                    everything; that never again, as long as she lived, could they ever be alone
                    together. And all the time she was conscious of the fascination, the odious
                    fascination which belongs to sin.
                ‘Come with me,’ he whispered, taking her thin fingers and entwining them with
                    his. ‘Trust me, little one. I want to be everything to you. We—we could live
                    somewhere in France,’ he went on, frowning slightly, ‘in some little place where
                    English people don't go—’
                ‘Ah—some place where English people don't go!’ she repeated softly, with a shade
                    of irony in her voice. She had drawn herself apart now, and was looking at him
                    steadily as he spoke.
                ‘Mary,’ he went on, ‘my little girl! Dare to be yourself. Come to me, let us
                    begin a new life, a real life, dear. You are above the prejudices
                    of our false civilisation, you are capable of being a true woman, of giving up
                    something for the man you love. In a little while I might be free, and then we
                    could be married. Mary, Mary, don't you really care for me enough for that?
                    Think of it, think of what we are missing? It would not be a selfish life we
                    would lead, Mary. We would work together. You would inspire me to noble things,’
                    he added, with a touch of his old manner.
                    ‘Other women—great women—have been strong enough, single-hearted enough, to do
                    as much for the men they loved. Dear heart, think of the years we might spend
                    together.’
                There was a tense silence. Mary had risen and walked to the window, where she
                    stood fidgeting with the tassel of the blind, and looking down into the dingy
                    street. Those words that she was listening to were the last words of love which
                    she was ever to hear. And she thought, as she stood there, of the irony of life.
                    To her, love had been twice offered: the affection of Perry Jackson, and now the
                    selfish passion of a man who was another woman's husband. After to-day it would
                    all be a blank. And the impotence, the helplessness of woman's lot struck her
                    with irresistible force. She was the plaything, the sport of destiny, and
                    destiny always won the game.
                She turned slowly round, and faced him, still swinging the tassel of the blind
                    with one hand. Her face was quite white; she looked cold, almost
                    indifferent.
                ‘Vincent,’ she said, in a grave voice, ‘I can't do it. I can't, I can't—not even
                    for you! It is not that I mind what people would say—that's nothing. It isn't
                    that I don't love you. I—I—why, I have always loved you. But it's the other woman—your wife. I can't, I won't, deliberately
                    injure another woman. Think how she would suffer! Oh, the torture of women's
                    lives—the helplessness, the impotence, the emptiness! And, Vincent, she is the
                    mother of your child. Your child, dear,’ she went on, after a
                    pause. ‘I could not bear that she should grow up and hate me. All we modern
                    women mean to help each other now. We have a bad enough time as it is,’ she
                    added, with a faint smile; ‘surely we needn't make it worse by our own
                    deliberate acts! We often talked it all over, Alison and I. You don't know the
                    good she did in her life, the help, the sympathy she gave. You will go away a
                    little, Vincent, and then you will go back. You will go back—to your little
                    daughter?’
                The next instant she was gone. He heard her shut and lock her bedroom door, but
                    he sat on and on, hoping she would come back, that she would relent, that she
                    would forgive him.... But no sound came from the little room. He did not know
                    that she had silently left the house.
                At last Hemming rang the bell, and the servant appeared.
                ‘Tell Miss Erle,’ he said, in a harsh, discordant voice, ‘that I am waiting—to
                    say good-bye.’
                ‘Miss Mary went out nearly an hour ago, sir. Didn't you know?’
                
                She was gone, then. It was all over; she had not trusted him. Eight o'clock
                    struck. He felt wretched, sick, hungry. It was too late now to catch the evening
                    mail, for he had no clothes, and he thought, with a grim smile, that a man
                    couldn't cross the Channel, even if he had been defrauded of his dearest hopes,
                    in a frock coat and a tall hat. Presently he left the house, and wandered along
                    towards Regent Street. He thought he would go to a restaurant and have some
                    dinner; he did not want to meet any of the men at the club.
                And afterwards he had an indistinct impression of a meal at which, in his
                    wretchedness, he went on ordering pints of champagne, of the corridor of a
                    music-hall, of rustling gowns, of scarlet smiles, and of some one, very young
                    and rather pretty, who leant upon his arm. It must have been a kind of dream, a
                    sort of madness, he thought afterwards, when he had returned, a day or two
                    later, to the decorous solemnity of his home in Queen's Gate.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XXIII
                THE WOMAN IN THE GLASS
                MARY walked rapidly round the Regent's Park. Over yonder, where the
                    sombre trees massed themselves against the pale evening sky, came the sounds and
                    scents of the on-coming summer; children's shrill voices calling to each other
                    near the ornamental water; the tread of sweethearts' feet on the gravel path;
                    the delicate aroma of newly-cut grass. All around her were simple human joys.
                    But they were not for her. She had left all that behind her in that little room
                    in Bulstrode Street, where sat the one man in the world that she cared for—the
                    one man now who cared for her. There was no one else; there never could be any
                    one else.
                But it behoved her henceforward to be sensible—to be strong for both of them. She
                    must never see him again, must, above all, try and think of Vincent as she used
                    to do, before that afternoon in Harley Street—how many years ago now?—when he
                    had first made love to her, and asked her to wait for him. How it spoiled everything—this eternal question of sex! It
                    was almost impossible for a woman to see a man as he really is. And, in
                    pursuance of the plan of being sensible, she went deliberately over Hemming's
                    faults. They were obvious enough. He was weak, vacillating; his phrases were
                    absurd. His ambitions, after all, were but vulgar ones, and he had not the
                    will-power to carry out even his most cherished plans. He was all that, and yet
                    he was the only man in the world that she loved—the only man in the world now
                    who desired her as a woman.
                And yet she must walk on, get as far away from him as possible. Here, at the
                    North Gate, the slim young poplars detached themselves tremblingly against the
                    pinkish sky, while in front of her stretched the long, white Avenue Road, with
                    its substantial, scrupulously-kept houses, holding themselves aloof in their
                    leafy gardens. She would walk on until she came to Hampstead. Up there, there
                    was space, distance; one's horizon opened out.
                Over the garden walls swayed the waxen, pinkish lilac. The scent struck her like
                    a blow; that room where they had been together had been filled with
                    the same penetrating, sensuous odour. Pink lilac and foliage made
                    artificial-looking by the yellow light of a gas-lamp—how they always reminded
                    her of Paris: of Paris, where they might have
                    been on their way by now. But she was walking alone, steeling her heart against
                    him, in a road in a London suburb. On each side was the prosperous, orderly,
                    contented life of the middle-class, with its placid domesticity, its unemotional
                    joys. From the open window of a long drawing-room came the sound of a young
                    girl's thread-like voice. Upstairs, in the nursery, the lights were already
                    lowered. The white street was deserted. But suddenly, from one of the open
                    gateways, appeared a pair of sleek chestnuts. The carriage passed out, and, as
                    Mary stood waiting at the curb, a man and a woman's smiling faces were
                    photographed on her brain. A prosperous, middle-aged couple, going out to a
                    placid evening's amusement. Then silence again.
                The girl pushed on, past endless rows of houses, trim, smug dwellings, every one
                    of which represented the Family—that special product of civilisation for which
                    she, as an individual, was to be sacrificed.... On and on, until at last,
                    through a dark, leafy lane, she emerged on the open heath.
                The after-glow of a crimson sunset still hung in the west. The Surrey Hills were
                    faintly blue, and the heath, with its broken ridges topped with gorse and
                    bracken, swept in superb lines at her feet. The air was very still. Over yonder a mysterious hand had hung a silver
                    sickle in the pale twilight sky. Mary sank tired on to a seat. But presently two
                    vague figures approached in the growing darkness—the figures of a girl and a
                    young man, working people both, who sat awkwardly down at the other end of the
                    bench, and talked in jerky, constrained whispers. The girl's eyes were bent
                    demurely on her lap, but once, when Mary turned her head in their direction, she
                    could see that the young man's eyes were devouring the face of his shabby little
                    companion with a passionate glance. Something tightened at Mary's throat. Why
                    to-night, of all nights, must she be reminded of what she was giving up? She got
                    up, and began to walk rapidly homewards.
                ‘I was not wanted there; I was spoiling their evening,’ she thought. ‘I must
                    learn to be discreet.’
                With some trepidation she rang the bell of her lodgings.
                ‘When did Mr. Hemming go?’ she asked.
                ‘About eight o'clock, miss. Will you have some dinner?’
                ‘No, thanks, Sarah. I can't eat anything to-night. I've got one of my
                    headaches.’
                Mary went straight into the little study and shut the door.
                Outwardly nothing was changed. The air was full
                    of his presence. There were the tea-cups out of which they had drunk; the chair
                    at the writing-table was still half swung round, just as Vincent Hemming had
                    left it. It was here, just at the mantelpiece, that he had taken her into his
                    arms and said all those mad things. She went deliberately over the scene,
                    repeating in her mind everything he had said. On the sofa the cushions were
                    still tumbled where he had sat and sobbed. Ah, for once, she had made
                        him suffer. She flung herself down, clenching her fists, with
                    her face against the silken cushions. Her other self revolted against the
                    injustice of human laws. The woman within her cried aloud in the darkness. What
                    had she done that she was always to be sacrificed? Why was she to miss the best
                    that life has to offer?
                She lay there a long time, miserable, stricken, helpless. Then, going into her
                    bedroom she began to take off her dress mechanically and to unloosen her hair.
                    Half-dressed as she was, she flung herself on the bed; she was tired and
                    footsore with her long walk. For an hour she fell into a fitful sleep.
                The night was warm, but she could hear the flapping of the window-blind, swaying
                    in a light breeze. Mary lay there a long time, every nerve in her body
                    quivering. How long, how long the night was! Would it never end, never be daylight, when she could get up and work
                    again? To work was to forget. If only she could keep strong and not worry too
                    much.
                She got up presently, weary with lying awake, and lit a couple of candles on the
                    dressing-table. The flapping-blind got on her nerves. She had forgotten to wind
                    up her watch, but, from the curious hush in the air, Mary thought it must be
                    nearing dawn. Then she began to pace the room mechanically. Would the night
                    never end?
                In the mirror on the dressing-table she caught sight of herself as she passed.
                    Her fair hair was floating in a kind of halo round her head; her bare arms and
                    shoulders emerged from the whiteness of her bodice. How the eyes looked at
                    her—hauntingly, appealingly—from out of a pathetic little face. She slipped into
                    the chair at the table, and leaning her face on her hands, looked gravely at the
                    mirror. For a long time now she had had a strange sense of dual individuality.
                    When she looked in the glass a woman looked back at her with reproachful,
                    haunting eyes. And to-night the woman looked at her appealingly. By the soft
                    candle-light the face was curiously young. The cheeks were delicately thin, but
                    the lips were those of a girl of eighteen; in the fluffy, fair head the few grey
                    hairs were lost among the pale gold. There was the line of her throat, her beautiful white shoulders, the
                    delicate modelling of her satiny arms. And, as she looked, the woman in the
                    glass softened with a triumphant smile.
                ‘You may torture me, starve me, but you cannot make me unlovable. He loves me!’
                    smiled the woman. ‘Why, he would ruin himself to-morrow for me. I have only to
                    say one word, and his life is mine. What are we two, after all? Two atoms of
                    matter, breathing, living, loving, suffering for one brief moment on a planet
                    which was once without organic life, and which is slowly grinding on to
                    irreparable decay. A few more drops in the ocean of eternity, and we and our
                    little loves and little hates will be forgotten. A few more drops, and mankind
                    itself will have disappeared, and once more a cold, uninhabited globe will
                    continue its monotonous course round the sun. No one can stop the coming of the
                    “Great Year.” Nature—insolent, triumphant nature—cares nothing for the
                    individual. Summer and winter, seedtime and harvest will come and go in the ages
                    to come, but I—I shall not be here. Nestlings will crouch,
                    chirruping, under the eaves; there will be dew on the meadow-sweet, sunshine in
                    the orchard; there will be lovers' glances, and the laughter of little children.
                    But for me, for me it will all be dark. Yet we do have the present moment; let us keep it and hold it.
                    We are alive now. We love each other. Give him to me! Only a few short years am
                    I here,’ pleaded the haunting eyes: ‘I, and such as I, tearing our little hands
                    in the search for gold, shaking them at the heavens with impotent vengeance.
                    Give him to me, give him to me! The inexorable years—the years which fade and
                    blight—will pass over us, and then our “folly” will be forgotten. Why, people in
                    the next generation will shrug their shoulders and say, “After all, they were
                    only human.” And I,’ pleaded the woman in the glass, ‘I shall have lived.’
                Mary dropped her head on her arms. The night was mysteriously still. The breeze
                    had dropped, and an uncanny silence hung about the house. The window was shut
                    now, the blind drawn. The two candles on the dressing-table were burning low in
                    their sockets. When she raised her head again, the eyes were no longer
                    triumphant, they were reproachful. ‘Who am I? Why am I here?’ they asked: ‘To
                    live is to suffer; why do you let me live? Must I go on looking back at you
                    until my eyes are faded, my lashes are grey, until I have run through the gamut
                    of mental and physical pain? I am a living, suffering entity,’ said the woman in
                    the glass, ‘in a world of artificial laws; of laws made for man's convenience
                    and pleasure, not for mine. Have I one thing
                    for which I have longed? Have I a human love, have I the hope of immortality,
                    have I even tasted the intoxication of achievement? Human life is but a moment
                    in the æons of time, and yet one little human lifetime contains an eternity of
                    suffering. Why, since you take joy from me, why do you let me live?’
                Here, indeed, was a greater temptation than the one from which she had just
                    escaped. She sprang up, horrified, afraid of the haunting eyes.... Was that to
                    be the end?
                Pacing the room, Mary fell to thinking of her father; of the kind-eyed enthusiast
                    who, in his younger years at least, had little enough joy, and much toil, who
                    had been blamed and reviled and stoned by the public, and who had worked solely
                    and single-heartedly for truth's sake. 
                        ‘To strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield,’
                     she suddenly said aloud. It was a line she had engraved on her father's
                    tomb at Highgate, a favourite line of his, of that dear worker of whom, even to
                    think, was morally bracing. Yes— 
                        ‘It may be that the gulfs will wash us down,
                        It may be we shall touch the Happy Isles;
                        ....but something ere I end—
                        Some work of noble note may yet be done,’
                     repeated Mary deliberately, as she walked into the little study, pulled up
                    the blind and raised the sash.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XXIV
                IN WHICH CIVILISATION TRIUMPHS
                OUTSIDE was the wan light of a wet daybreak. A thin rain flipped her
                    face, cooling her feverish cheeks. The gas-lamps already took on an orange hue,
                    and in the east there flickered a streak of mysterious light. A faint chirruping
                    of birds began, though London still lay mute, but soon the bird-chorus waxed
                    louder, more shrill, more persistent. The terrible night was over. The dawn was
                    at hand.
                Mary lit her lamp and searched about among her papers for the chapter of her
                    novel at which she had been at work yesterday before Vincent came. She had still
                    to do another happy ending, the rapturous finale which the public demanded. She tried to fix her thoughts,
                    but the great bunch of pinkish lilac irritated her with its dominant, sensuous
                    odour. Taking the dripping stalks in her hand she went to the open window and
                    let them drop gently on the pavement below. And then, there was 
                        some-
                        something
                     thing else—the large, full-length,
                    faded photograph of Vincent Hemming, which stood just above the pigeon-holes on
                    her desk.
                Raising the short silk curtain which hid the grate in the summer-time, Mary
                    placed the photograph upright in the fireplace and lit it with a match. Then she
                    sat down on the fur rug, in her dressing-gown, and, hunched up, with her chin on
                    her knees, watched the holocaust. There was neither sorrow, love, nor anger in
                    the grey eyes, nothing but a kind of curiosity. But the stiff cardboard would
                    not burn. Mary lit it twice with matches, and it caught for a minute, and then
                    went out with a sudden little puff.
                ‘Paper—paper is what I want,’ she muttered. ‘I wonder if love-letters burn better
                    than other kinds of paper?’ And, going to the table, she unlocked a drawer and
                    took out a thick bundle of letters in thin, foreign envelopes; all Vincent's
                    letters during his journey round the world. ‘It is poetic justice,’ she thought
                    grimly; ‘and then—I must keep nothing that will remind me of
                    him—nothing—nothing—nothing.’
                So she gathered up all his letters, even the last one, which she had received the
                    day before Alison's death, and laid them under the photograph. Ah! now he
                    burned. First the boots, then the trousers to
                    the knee, then to the trim waist of the frock-coat. But then it went out again,
                    leaving Vincent's head and shoulders still there; Vincent's face, with its
                    slightly superior air, the orchid in the button-hole. How chilly it had grown! A
                    draught came under the chink of the door, and her bare feet, thrust into bedroom
                    slippers, were deadly cold. Another match; this time it was for good. First the
                    orchid was licked up by the little blue flames, then the chin, the mouth, the
                    eyes. Soon there was only a handful of blackened paper. Well, real life was like
                    that. The love of lovers was a blaze, a whiff, a vain, fleeting thing. She
                    looked at the little heap of fluttering paper, and saw, with her sane vision,
                    Vincent going back to his wife. Yes, he would go to Paris, and then he would go
                    back to domesticity in Queen's Gate. Next year there would possibly be another
                    child—a boy, perhaps, in whom he would take more interest. He had his wife's
                    fortune, and for sure next time he would secure a safe seat in Parliament. That
                    passionate interview would soon be a mere episode to him.
                ‘A mere episode,’ she repeated to herself deliberately, as the white daylight
                    came creeping in at the window.
                And now a draught, blowing down the chimney,
                    rustled the handful of ashes and dispersed them with a sudden gust, while a ray
                    of wan sunlight crept tentatively along the empty hearth.
                Late that afternoon a slight figure was to be seen toiling up to Highgate
                    Cemetery. Mary had to see the stonemason about the inscription on her father's
                    grave. They had written to say that some of the letters wanted re-painting,
                    perhaps re-cutting. She found the stonemason sitting straddle-legged on a high
                    tomb near, carefully scraping a marble anchor which had become dingy in the
                    course of years. The man clambered down and touched his cap. She remembered him
                    well as a freethinker, and a great admirer of her father's books.
                They both looked carefully at the professor's grave. And, to be sure, the line— 
                        ‘To strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield’
                     was almost illegible. The urn on the top was slightly askew.
                ‘It gets all the wind and the rain, you see, Miss Erle,’ said the stonemason,
                    gazing critically at his work. ‘Yer father's tomb, it do stand so 'igh. Almost
                    the 'ighest in the cem'try, I may say. And a sight of rain we do 'ave up here in
                    winter time. Soaks the clay, it does, and shifts the graves. Look at that angel with the trumpet over there. A bit squiffy, he
                    looks, don't 'e? Some of them tombs 'ave to be repaired constant.’
                ‘I want this seen to at once,’ said Mary.
                ‘It'll be a matter of five pound to do it up properly, Miss,’ he said, after some
                    consideration, and then he added, in his apologetic workman's voice, ‘and I
                    shouldn't like, for 'is sake, to skimp the job. Ah! we ain't got many like 'im
                    up 'ere.’
                When the man had gone, Mary stood for a long time there on the little mound at
                    the top of the hill.
                All around her was the joyous activity of spring-time. Nature, who never ceases,
                    who never rests, was once again at her work of recreation. Once again the
                    lilac-trees were burgeoning with waxen blossoms. Once again a thrush, somewhere
                    among that great city of sleepers, was swelling its brown throat with an amorous
                    song. The air was loaded with the perfume of may; a pair of swifts were circling
                    and swooping against the tender evening sky. And in all this gaiety of a
                    new-born world only she was to have no part. Henceforward she was to stand
                    alone, to fight the dreary battle of life unaided. ‘And women live long,’ came
                    the ironical thought: ‘yes—we live long!’
                
                The sunset touched her face, her hand, the flush of hawthorn above her head. At
                    her feet, beyond the foreground of spreading trees, lay stretched out an ocean
                    of houses, softened, made vague with a silvery veil of smoke, and pricked by
                    endless spires. Here and there a blurred block, a monster hotel, a railway
                    station, rose out of the great sea of dwellings. It was London that lay
                    stretched out at her feet; majestic, awe-inspiring, inexorable, triumphant
                    London.
                Standing alone, there on the heights, she made a feint as if to grasp the city
                    spread out before her, but the movement ended in a vain gesture, and the
                    radiance of her face was blotted out as she began to plod homewards in the
                    twilight of the suburban road.
            
            THE END.
        
    
