
     ----CITATION----
        Blind, Mathilde (1841-1896). Tarantella, Volume 2. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 40 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2003-Apr-24).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7181
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    TARANTELLA
                    A ROMANCE
                
                BY MATHILDE BLIND Author of "The Prophecy of Saint
                    Oran," and "Life of George Eliot"
                VOL II
                
                    London
                    T FISHER UNWIN
                        26 PATERNOSTER SQUARE
                
                1885
            
            
                
                CONTENTS.
                
                    BOOK II (continued.)
                    CHAPTER XXIII. WED IN HASTE. 1
                    CHAPTER XXIV. FALLINGS OUT. 7
                    CHAPTER XXV. IN THE STUDIO. 17
                    CHAPTER XXVI. DESERTED. 26
                    CHAPTER XXVII. VICTORY AND DEFEAT. 33
                    CHAPTER XXVIII. SPELL-BOUND. 45
                    CHAPTER XXIX. A STRANGE ENCOUNTER. 49
                    
                    CHAPTER XXX. A NEW VERSION OF AN OLD STORY. 55
                    CHAPTER XXXI. A STORM IN A BOUDOIR. 61
                    CHAPTER XXXII. A DIRE DAWNING. 68
                
                
                    BOOK III.
                    CHAPTER XXXIII. THE LOST RING. 75
                    CHAPTER XXXIV. REJECTED AND ACCEPTED. 88
                    CHAPTER XXXV. FRAU LICHTENFELD ON MATRIMONY. 99
                    CHAPTER XXXVI. THE APPLE OF YOUTH. 112
                    CHAPTER XXXVII. EXPLANATIONS. 122
                    CHAPTER XXXVIII. PASSING AWAY. 137
                    CHAPTER XXXIX. THE SNOW-BRIDE. 152
                    CHAPTER XL. THE TRUE TARANULA. 166
                    
                    CHAPTER XLI. IN THE TOILS. 184
                    CHAPTER XLII. "WHAT HAS ONE DONE, THOU HAPLESS CHILD, TO THEE?"
                        195
                    CHAPTER XLIII. WITHIN AND WITHOUT. 204
                    CHAPTER XLIV. THE MARRIAGE MORN. 210
                    CHAPTER XLV. RETRO ME SATANAS. 223
                    CHAPTER XLVI. RESURGAM. 237
                
            
        
        
            
            TARANTELLA.
            
                BOOK II (continued.)
                
                    
                    CHAPTER XXIII.
                    WED IN HASTE.
                    "I NEEDN'T detain you over the number of times we changed horses and
                        postillions, all the bribes I gave and the scudi I disbursed. Poor Antonella was sound asleep in her
                        plaid shawl and green veil, as, towards four o'clock of the second morning
                        of our flight, we drove through the gates of Rome. Without further accident
                        we reached Raoul's studio on the Piazza Barberini, where we had decided for
                        the present to locate our fair charge. She woke up with a start, and to all
                        intents and purposes her sleep seemed to have sufficed for a night's rest.
                        At any rate, no signs of lassitude impaired her complexion or the wonderful
                        brilliancy of her eyes, as with a kind  of
                        childish awe she surveyed the weird surroundings of Leroux's studio.
                    "Everything was new, strange, and astounding, to the Ana-Capri maiden: the
                        numberless canvases that leant against the lower part of the walls, the
                        worm-eaten tapestries that covered their upper portions, the yataghans, the
                        shields, the chain-mail that hung on them, the pictures on the easel, the
                        casts, the masks, the anatomical écorchés
                        that filled all spaces, the hollow suit of armour that shone in one dark
                        corner, the skeleton with a pipe in its mouth that filled another; and, more
                        horrific than all, the lay-figure which, in its silk dress and ringlets, she
                        mistook for the lady of the house, and which elicited a little scream from
                        her as she noticed its vacant stare and oddly twisted fingers. Then there
                        was the portrait of the Cardinal that would stare at her, move to which side
                        she would; the gorgeous Persian cat that sprang loudly purring on its
                        master's shoulders; the brilliant and clamorous macaw, and the dreadful
                        little black monkey, that, shocking to relate, had caught her by the silk
                        train, for which it received a caning. All this, and much more, filled her
                        with speechless amazement.
                    "But before she had time to grow a little more accustomed to these wonders,
                        she was hurried off by Margutta?, Raoul's factotum and housekeeper, to the
                        room that for the present was allotted her. During her absence, ever more
                        anxiously did Raoul and myself discuss the problem of what was to be done
                        with her. I had given my friend a hasty sketch of all that you know already,
                        and though demurring at first to the resolution I had taken, he was quite
                        willing to help me  on finding me fixed in
                        my resolution. After a few minutes he exclaimed: 'I have it! There's a
                        priest I know, who has often sat to me, he frequents a café not far from here; many's the bottle we've
                        emptied and the song we've sung together. He is a little rakish, I won't
                        deny, too fond of double-entendres and
                        good living: still a priest is a priest; I'll ask him how to set about this
                        marriage business. We'll keep him in the dark about that convent escapade of
                        your bella donna; but as long as we're
                        fairly married according to the rules of the Church, I suppose we need have
                        no further apprehension of pursuit or detection, as Mademoiselle Antonella
                        had taken no vows, and was therefore free to leave. However, I don't think
                        the Signor Curato will ask many questions. But tell us, mon vieux—for I can hardly make you out—are you
                        in bitter earnest? Do you love her—I mean head over ears?'
                    "'By all means seek out the priest at once,' I cried; 'I am in earnest. I
                        know I am doing what is wild and reckless; I know that this is but a simple
                        contadina of Capri, but I love her—I love her as madly as though she were
                        Queen of Naples. Between her and me there exist occult, magnetic affinities;
                        for me she has got into this strait; she has entered a convent, and run away
                        from it, and I could no more abandon her now, or be her ruin, than I could
                        at this moment abandon the hopes of life itself, with all its prospects of
                        gratified ambition. I don't understand the laws of this singular,
                        unprogressive country, but I will marry her this hour, if they will permit
                        it, and,arrange all else afterwards.'
                    "Raoul slightly raised his eyebrows, and rolled up a cigarette. His cat
                        pricked up her ears as the rustling  of a
                        silk dress was again heard along the corridor, and Antonella, refreshed and
                        resplendent, with her black, lustrous plaits newly arranged, came sweeping
                        into the room in her long black skirt, whose dark lines brought into strong
                        relief her embroidered chemise, her 'mat' ivory shoulders, and grandly
                        moulded arms. Raoul, assiduously placing a chair for her at the
                        breakfast-table, which had been laid out by this time, whispered in French:
                        'How maddeningly those corals on the faded red handkerchief bring out her
                        flesh-tints. I already see her hung in next year's "Salon," with a crowd of
                        my despairing rivals beneath her!'
                    "'Softly, softly, friend,' I answered in the same tongue; 'you have to catch
                        the Signor Curato first.'
                    "'I will, I will!' cried Raoul, jumping up enthusiastically, as he hastily
                        gulped down the remainder of his chocolate; then smilingly kissing his hand
                        to Antonella, he skipped out of the room.
                    "He returned ere long bursting with his good news; for he entered into his
                        friends' affairs with about the same zest with which he would begin a new
                        picture. Taking me aside, he informed me that the priest whom he had
                        consulted was ready to marry us himself this very morning if I liked,
                        although it would be a disciplinary offence on his part—a consideration
                        which he waived on hearing he would be well rewarded for it. 'I dare say,'
                        he went on, 'twenty-five scudi will appear
                        ample payment to him. If your finances are exhausted I have the money all
                        ready for you; at least you'll be at no expense for a wedding garment or
                        banquet.'
                    "When the priest arrived, we accordingly received the nuptial benediction in
                        the studio, after very scant  ceremony,
                        Raoul and his housekeeper being the witnesses.
                    "After discussion with my friend, it was decided that it would be positively
                        ruinous to my prospects to acknowledge the peasant girl Antonella openly as
                        my wife for the present; and that my best plan would be to place her with
                        some lady who might help in forming her manners and developing her mind.
                    "Such a person I remembered my former landlady to be, the widow of an
                        impoverished Cavaliere, who had left her for sole property a small palazzo
                        in the 'Trastevere.' There in some top rooms she lived and held state by
                        herself, the rest being let out in apartments, mostly to hard-up characters
                        such as I had been myself.
                    "This lady—for lady she was in every sense of the word—I thought might be
                        willing to carry out my views with respect to Antonella. She was fairly well
                        educated, spoke French, and yet was poor enough to make it likely that she
                        would gladly avail herself of such an addition to her income. Moreover, I
                        judged that my visits would not attract attention in the quiet,
                        out-of-the-way neighbourhood where she lived.
                    "As I expected, Signora di Volterra readily fell in with my views. 'Your wife
                        shall be as safe with me as in her mother's lap,' she said; 'and as to
                        education, I flatter myself that though my poor dear Cavaliere was only
                        third under-secretary to the Santo Padre's confessor, yet the Di Volterras
                        have ever known the business and duties of the nobility.'
                    "When Antonella was introduced to her, she seized her fervidly in her arms,
                        said she was the daughter  that she and the
                        Cavaliere had always longed for; and with a look at me, observed that with
                        such eyes she would not be long without admirers when I introduced her into
                        society; ending by inviting her to put away her bonnet and things in the
                        room allotted to her. My wife turned round, pouted her lips at me, and
                        disappeared with her chaperon."
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER XXIV.
                    FALLINGS OUT.
                    LEOPOLD SONTHEIM had uttered a startled exclamation on hearing of Emanuel's
                        marriage with Antonella.
                    "Good God! you are a married man, then!" he exclaimed as his, friend made a
                        pause in his story, looking at him with knitted brows; and then he began
                        whistling as though to relieve his mind.
                    Just then the watchman passed down the street, droning out in a monotonous
                        voice— 
                            
                                "Good folk, the Minster bell strikes two,
                                May Christ the Lord watch over you."
                            
                        
                    Sontheim, seeing that his friend still remained silent, remarked more calmly:
                        "Well, I suppose there's more behind it than meets the eye! No one that I
                        know of has ever heard of this wife of yours. From what I can make out,
                        she'd the spirit of twenty unbroken fillies in her, and you can't surely
                        have kept her in  durance vile with that old
                        Di Volterra up to the present hour!"
                    Emanuel laughed rather sardonically; then he said, shrugging his shoulders,
                        "You shall hear in due time how well I kept her shut up there, and what a
                        docile wife I found her! In the meantime she did not show much docility as a
                        pupil, though she possessed all sorts of natural talents, but she was
                        incorrigibly lazy and pleasure loving. Some things, it is true, she learned
                        at once and as by instinct, such as to drape and wear a shawl in the last
                        new fashion, to speak pure Roman, and to behave like a lady. On discovering,
                        for example, that finely shaped aid trimmed nails were considered a sign of
                        high breeding, she actually devoted three hours every morning to paring and
                        polishing hers; and in spite of my teazing, persevered till she had
                        eradicated all traces of plebeian origin from her long, shapely hands.
                    "Reading, writing, and arithmetic, however, were profoundly distasteful to
                        her; but as soon as she found them to be necessary accomplishments to a
                        person in society, she arduously prosecuted their study by original
                        processes of her own. For instance, I have known her secrete notes from
                        fashionable ladies, and use them as models for her own caligraphy, despising
                        the more rounded commonplace characters of her instructress; by this means,
                        with the aid of gilt-edged, scented notepaper and golden sand, she used to
                        send me billets-doux that would in no wise
                        have been a disgrace to me if left lying about.
                    "For some time after we were married her great delight was to go out walking
                        with me through the streets of Rome, and I indulged her in this fancy as  much as I could and dared. I soon
                        discovered, however, that the grand monuments of antiquity and the
                        historical associations of the Eternal City possessed no attractions for
                        her. How should they? you will perhaps say, considering she knew next to
                        nothing of their past history. Still, in many of the Italians, quite as
                        uncultivated as herself, there seems a kind of inborn, hereditary instinct
                        for these things.
                    "No; what she liked was going to the Corso, and the evening walks on the
                        Pincio, decked out in her finest clothes, and watching the people of wealth
                        and title drive by in their carriages, who stared at her in turn. But,
                        afraid of the notice she attracted, I was forced to check a taste which,
                        though harmless enough in itself, incurred too much risk under the
                        circumstances.
                    "Our first memorable quarrel, I remember, arose when I told her that I was
                        not a Marchese or Milord, as she seemed to think, with nothing to do but
                        waste his time in showing off his wife to the world on the Corso; but a
                        hard-worked musician, bound to strain every nerve for some years to come to
                        place her in the position he wished to see her in.
                    "You will remember that Raoul had stipulated that he should be allowed to
                        paint Antonella, and under the circumstances I could of course refuse him
                        nothing. He had set his heart on painting a picture of the dance amidst the
                        ruins—had actually gone to Capri to make some studies on the spot itself,
                        and was now all on fire to begin his subject with such a splendid model for
                        his central figure.
                    "Antonella's delight on finding that she was to be painted knew no bounds;
                        Signora di Volterra, on the  other hand,
                        looked, or pretended to look, scandalized. But the impetuous girl paid small
                        heed to what she called her owlish humours, and began trying on all her
                        dresses by turns before she was ready to start.
                    "She always naturally fell into the most graceful attitudes, and Raoul's only
                        difficulty, on our reaching the studio, was which selection he should make
                        from among this wealth of posture. She put up with this troublesome and
                        apparently interminable trial with the utmost complacency, but grew restive
                        when he had at last fixed on the right position and she found that she was
                        henceforth expected to remain motionless.
                    "Raoul, like a skilled veteran, did not at first inform her of the many hours
                        she would be required to sit, and she kept continually turning her head the
                        wrong way, and inquiring if he did not think that a better view
                        of it, or if he had not yet done. But by degrees, what with sweetmeats, and
                        blandishments, and his amusing stories, she got, as it were, surprised into
                        sitting properly; perhaps also philosophically making up her mind that one
                        must suffer for the privilege of future greatness as a beauty.
                    "Later on, when I found the sittings so much more numerous than I had
                        expected—for these great artists often work out their conceptions at immense
                        toil to themselves—I would play to them on my violin, and we would pass our
                        time in a sort of blissful intoxication of blended art, friendship, and
                        love. This would only be interrupted at moments when things went wrong with
                        Raoul's painting, when, after rushing back to look at his work from a
                        distance, he would curse himself for a fool, and tear his wild locks, and
                        fiercely wipe out what he had  done with
                        his paint rag. At such times my wife would stare at him as though he were
                        mad, and then burst into peals of laughter, and I would fiddle away with
                        desperate energy to drown his exclamations, and rail at him for his
                        wastefulness; or, again, when the mood seized me I would pull out my roll of
                        music-paper and begin composing, when we all three became as silent as mice.
                        But frequently I had to go off to concerts, or to give lessons, which were
                        now, however, chiefly to marchionesses and bankers' wives, leaving Raoul and
                        my wife together in a fervour of confidence in their affection and
                        honour.
                    "Antonella had the faculty of getting her own way with everybody. With the
                        Signora di Volterra, who was, I feared, a lazy instructress, she did as she
                        liked; me, of course, she twisted round her little finger; and now came
                        Raoul's turn. He had promised me not to let her be seen by any one, but on
                        the many occasions when he was called into the adjoining room to speak to
                        important visitors she had managed in one way or another to bring herself to
                        their notice. It seems that one or two of Raoul's rich patrons, connoisseurs
                        of art and men of fashion, had caught glimpses of Antonella in the corridor
                        of the house, opportunities which I now imagine she must herself have sought
                        for. These now began whispering amongst each other of the magnificent beauty
                        of this artist's mysterious model.
                    "To my no small annoyance, I myself heard the Princess Tortonia rallying my
                        friend at her house about the model he so sedulously kept all to himself—so
                        all unlike the beings they saw grouped on the steps of the Trinity di Monte.
                        I had found out, indeed, that  one morning
                        when Raoul had been unexpectedly called away, she had been discovered
                        amiably chatting with several of his male friends on his return.
                    "The picture for which she had been sitting was now finished, and attracted a
                        great deal of attention; and although my wife herself had now begun dabbling
                        in colours and babbling of turning artist, I insisted for many reasons on
                        her discontinuance of her visits to the studio, and resuming her prearranged
                        mode of life and occupations.
                    "Although she apparently acquiesced in this decision, I began to notice a
                        great change in her temper and manner to myself. We had now been married
                        over a year. The season had been a very unhealthy one; my chief supporters
                        had left Rome in a panic, there were no concerts going on, and financially
                        speaking I was anything but flourishing.
                    "It is true I was beginning to make a great name, but a large income does not
                        invariably keep pace with that.
                    "Antonella, already irritated at the imposed restrictions, would evince by
                        degrees considerable impatience, nay, contempt, on my refusing her certain
                        expensive trifles or expeditions that she had set her heart on.
                    "On one occasion, indeed, she was so exceedingly unreasonable, that,
                        forgetting my wonted forbearance, I roundly taxed her with her extravagance
                        and love of amusement; when, to my astonishment, she poured out on me such a
                        torrent of invective, mingled with complaints and accusations, that for the
                        moment I was utterly taken aback.
                    "Feverishly pacing up and down the room she cried:  'You wish to keep me hidden away, I see; to deny
                        me all the privileges of my station, my position as your wife. Ah, how do I
                        know that I am your wife at all! What could a poor girl like me do to
                        protect herself from treachery and shame? Unhappy me! I see it all now; the
                        holy hermit was right when he said you were luring me to destruction—it was
                        a mock marriage into which you entrapped me! Fool! Idiot! I see it all! That
                        is why I am stowed away with the old dolt on this top-floor; that is why you
                        tell me you have no money, and go to all the grand people alone, so that no
                        one should hear of my miserable, miserable story! Oh, my poor mother, God
                        was good to you to take you to Himself before you knew what had become of
                        your wretched Tolla. We were honest people always, and now they would point
                        their finger at me in Ana-Capri; the girls would titter and turn their backs
                        upon me. He is ashamed of you, they would say; would he be ashamed of his
                        lawful wife? No, no, I will not stand it; I was an honest girl. I will go to
                        the Santo Padre and tell him of the foul trick played upon me; he will see
                        me righted, he will not let me be ground down to the dust!
                    "'Ah me, but he will know that I ran away from the convent, wretched girl
                        that I am, and punish me perhaps! It was wicked, oh, very wicked of me; but
                        it was your fault, yes, your fault—you have been my ruin! My soul will go to
                        perdition, and all through you! you! you!'
                    "The last words came half-stifled through her clenched teeth, while she was
                        pointing her finger at me. Her features worked more and more convulsively,
                        and then, with a succession of gurgling moans, she  suddenly, before I could catch her, fell
                        backwards like a log, and, to my horror, remained quite rigid and
                        deathlike.
                    "I lifted her on to the sofa, called her by a thousand tender names, rushed
                        into the next room for a jug of cold water, bathed her face and rubbed her
                        temples—but all to no purpose; and at last, thoroughly frightened, I rang
                        the bell furiously, and on the Signora's appearance bade her watch by my
                        wife's side while I rushed out for a doctor.
                    "Though half beside myself, I remembered the address of a rising young
                        medical man, whom I found in, and brought back with me. On the way, I
                        informed him of the death-like state in which I had left my wife, and of the
                        extraordinary circumstances under which I had first seen her.
                    "By this time we had reached our destination, and in another moment the
                        doctor was feeling Tolla's pulse, and examining the pupils of her eyes. She
                        lay in the same awful immobility in which I had left her. But my worst fears
                        were allayed by the cool, business-like manner in which he ordered her head
                        to be laid low, and her clothes to be loosened, saying: 'Don't be alarmed!
                        You must leave her perfectly quiet; she will come to herself presently. She
                        has one of those nervous temperaments that would be specially affected by
                        such an accident as you have described. I remember that similar cases often
                        came within my father's cognizance while in practice at Taranto. I have it
                        on his authority that this affection is not merely the superstition
                        ordinarily represented, but that for some occult reason the inhabitants of
                        those parts are liable to this hysterical 
                        disorder on being bitten by the tarantula; and he attributed the beneficial
                        effect produced by the tarantella music to the perspiration incident to the
                        violent dancing, a view he found corroborated when in Russia with the
                            Grande Armée, where the peasants use
                        their vapour-bath as a cure for hydrophobia. But I should not advise your
                        playing to her again in this manner, as it will only tend to renew the
                        impression produced on the nerves; and you must try to make her forget
                        it.'
                    "Then surveying her beautiful countenance with about as much animation as
                        though she were a wax figure, he added that, with her highly excitable
                        nature, I must try by all means to keep her amused, and then took his
                        leave.
                    "When Antonella at last came to herself, everything was forgotten in the joy
                        of seeing her well again. She appeared unconscious of the scene that had led
                        to her trance. She was more captivating than ever; and to celebrate our
                        reconciliation I took her to Tivoli, and we spent the day there in all
                        manner of lover-like follies and playful pranks.
                    "For a little while everything went charmingly. She now resumed her visits to
                        the studio, which I was henceforth afraid to interfere with; and there,
                        while sitting or painting under his direction, she now often met patrons and
                        visitors of Raoul's.
                    "By and by I noticed that she began to alternate more than hitherto between
                        fits of strange excitability and utter languor, which again gave place to
                        the wildest caprices. She coquetted, with the men that came to see my
                        friend, took to smoking cigarettes at times, and in certain moods ignored me
                        altogether. But if on such  occasions I
                        flew into a violent rage, and gave vent to spurts of jealousy, all at once,
                        by a curious revulsion, she would manifest the most extravagant love for me;
                        and no matter how angry I felt, if she looked at me with that seductive
                        smile of hers, showing the milk-white teeth, it was all up with me
                        again."
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER XXV.
                    IN THE STUDIO.
                    "RAOUL'S pupil, the beautiful 'Tolla,' had now become quite an institution in
                        the former's studio. The model had gradually been merged in the artist. She
                        had made herself a marvellously coquettish blouse, and she used to set her
                        palette, and rub out her work with a piece of rag, with the most ravishing
                        airs. If any visitors made their appearance, she would throw back her head,
                        and survey her work from under her long, drooping eyelashes, with an art far
                        surpassing that on her easel. Of the latter I do not think that many people
                        could have been enamoured, nevertheless several of her admirers seemed
                        pleased with it, and bought fancy portraits of herself.
                    "One afternoon, towards the end of March, I had come in, and was twanging the
                        mandolin, as was my wont, while Raoul and Tolla worked away with most
                        meritorious seriousness.
                    
                    "One by one three gentlemen had dropped in to take leave, as it happened, for
                        after a winter residence at Rome they were all going back to their
                        respective countries. There was the French banker, Raoul's intimate and
                        self-constituted agent; a Russian Count Ogotshki, reputed of immense
                        wealth—a grey-haired, pale-eyed, paternal sort of man—with high cheek-bones,
                        weak chin, and of exceedingly courtly manners; and an English M.P., in a
                        grey tweed suit of irreproachable cut, who spoke the most wonderful
                        Anglo-French, only seasoned rather too plentifully with 'Oh uee!'
                    "Tolla, in some occult fashion of her own, had by this time picked up French,
                        in which she rattled on with most commendable self-assurance and
                        facility.
                    "'You should have seen the crowd round you in the salon,' said the French banker, M. G——, looking benignantly
                        at Tolla. 'Had you been there yourself, you would have been the toast of all
                        Paris, and the lioness of the Bois de Boulogne. I heard Madame Agadeau say,
                        if that girl were her daughter she should be covered with diamonds; as she
                        considered these Italian peasants of a higher and nobler race than us
                        Gauls.'
                    "'I have a picture of an Italian peasant-woman by Williams,' remarked the
                        M.P. sententiously; 'a woman of Sorrento with a goat. But what is singular
                        is that both are precisely similar to a woman with a goat that a friend of
                        mine had of him thirty years before; and yet a goat will not live thirty
                        years though the woman might. But I say to him, if you would only borrow
                        some of Robert's, and your splendid models to——' 
                    "'Mr. Williams is too polite to wish to interfere  with our models; and, moreover, after painting a
                        goat for twenty years he may well do it de
                            chic.'
                    "'I know what that is,' said the M.P., 'it is what our sailors put in their
                        cheeks.'
                    "'Yes,' retorted Raoul, 'and is usually associated with blague; and he began shouting out in operatic
                        tones— 
                            
                                'Debit de tabac des manufa ....
                                Des manufa ...
                                Debit de tabac des manufa ...
                                Des manufa ...
                                Tures royales
                                Tures royaux.' ....
                            
                        
                    "All this time the Count said little or nothing, but sat smoking his
                        cigarette and watching Tolla painting. Suddenly turning to Raoul, he pointed
                        to the picture of 'The Dance among the Ruins,' and said—
                    "'So the Duchess of D—— has been beforehand with me in that. It seems my
                        destiny always to play second fiddle. I was born a day too late, and have
                        never been able to make it up since. You dislike making replicas, I believe?'
                    "'Ah, we have no time for that now,' said the banker, pompously; 'but there's
                        the "Silk-spinner of Ana-Capri," mademoiselle is in that also.'
                    "All this time Raoul uttered not a word, but went on with his 'Debit de
                        tabac.'
                    "'But of course that is mine,' exclaimed the Count, eagerly; 'I always looked
                        upon it as such—and as many others of yours as you will let me take back to
                        Russia, for the matter of that.' (The banker looked slightly astonished.) 'I
                        am sure England has had more than her share already of mademoiselle's
                        effigies—but  that was not exactly what I
                        meant,' he said, tugging at his grey moustache and smoking more vigorously
                        than before.
                    "'In truth, for the last year our M. Leroux has painted no one else,' here
                        put in the Englishman; 'as indeed who would, who had once beheld this
                        enchanting profile. You should paint her as Circe, M. Leroux; I for one
                        should be proud to figure as one of her pigs!'
                    "While he was speaking Antonella had looked about her once or twice, and
                        there was something strangely intoxicating in the glance of her eye and the
                        smile on her lips, as she cried, 'Oh, I would rather paint you as St.
                        Anthony; our hermit at Ana-Capri had a picture of the saint—but now that I
                        think of it, it was not unlike the Count here. I will paint you, Count,' she
                        said, as if the idea had just struck her; then casting down her eyes with a
                        charming air of modesty, 'that is, if you will sit to such a tyro as myself,
                        when you might have great artists like M. Raoul to do justice to your
                            air de grand seigneur.'
                    "One might almost have fancied that the Count, elderly and case-hardened
                        though he was, blushed a little at this; but before he could muster his wits
                        to do justice to this offer, our English M.P. broke in with—
                    'And will you not deign to paint me, too, fair artist? if not as the saint,
                        why stick me in as the demon tempting him.'
                    "Antonella laughed gaily, and looking from one to the other of the three
                        elderly gentlemen, said: 'Messieurs, you all look so extremely amiable that
                        I, as a good Catholic, should consider it sacrilege to invest the devil with
                        your attribute; but yonder sits M. Sturm, whose  scowl would not ill-become the arch-fiend
                        himself!' and with a low, provoking laugh, she pointed her brush at me, who,
                        sick of this vain chatter, had sat far back in the embrasure of the huge
                        studio window, dividing my time between teazing the monkey and twanging the
                        mandolin; but now, losing all patience, I began violently striking it,
                        shouting out the jeering carnival tune, 'Au clair de la lune.'
                    "Raoul, who, while painting away, had occasionally joined the conversation
                        with a laugh or witticism here quickly put in with an air of
                        mock-injury—
                    "'Every one of the present company, I see, is to have the distinction of
                        sitting to the most peerless of painters—saint or devil matters little—only
                        I have proved such a bore of a teacher that I am to be cut out altogether it
                        seems. Won't you, at least, let me play second demon in your "Temptation of
                        St. Anthony?" or stay, rather let me put you in myself, for I am sure the
                        arch-tempter could never devise a bait more fatal than those eyes!'
                    How they sparkled at that moment! There was something almost insolently
                        triumphant about her person just then, which seemed to radiate beauty as a
                        star does light. All the men present succumbed more or less to its
                        influence; I only felt it as an insult to me in the jealous rage that
                        gripped me within.
                    "'No, no! the temptation would be too irresistible,' here interposed the
                        gallant Frenchman; 'St. Anthony never was so sorely tried.'
                    "The Count, who seemed to have been following up a train of thoughts of his
                        own, now remarked: 'I'd sooner be painted as St. Nicholas—he is my country's
                             patron saint; and I would be
                        represented as showering gifts on a fair maiden.'
                    "Their conversation appeared to me to be growing more and more insipid, and
                        while twanging loudly on the mandolin, I remarked: 'For the matter of that,
                        Antonella, you'll make us what you'll make us; but I, for my part, have
                        little ambition to sit for either pig or devil.'
                    "'No, you had better sit for a bear in your present mood,' said Tolla,
                        smiling; 'and the monkey, to whom so much of your attention is devoted,
                        shall play the fiddle to you—sha'n't you, Jacko?'
                    "Raoul, slightly raising his eyebrows, looked at his watch, and put down his
                        palette; and the three gentlemen, with smiles and sweet parting speeches to
                        Antonella, now bowed themselves out.
                    "Raoul, who had an engagement, departed immediately afterwards; and left
                        alone with Antonella, I said brutally, 'What devil has seized you, to go on
                        tormenting me as you have been doing? Don't you know that I hate those
                        foolish banterings with stolid bankers and thick-sculled Russians?'
                    "Antonella, for all answer, broke into a defiant laugh, that stung me beyond
                        endurance.
                    "'What is the meaning of this?' I cried, going close up to her, and looking
                        fixedly in her eyes. 'Do you take me for a fool, your humble servant,
                        madame?'
                    "She twirled herself round on her heel, and again broke into her unendurable
                        laugh. 'Tut, tut, fool or not,' she said, insolently, 'at least you shall
                        not befool me.'
                    "For the moment I felt an almost overpowering  inclination to seize and shake the devil out of her; but I mastered
                        myself with a strong effort, and said in a cold, significant voice,
                        'Antonella, this is a strange tone to adopt towards your husband. Do you
                        consider that I fail towards you in aught?'
                    "'Husband!' she sneered. 'A fine husband! who keeps his wife in a top-floor,
                        and lets her want for half the necessaries of life!'
                    "'Are you mad, or what?' I cried. 'Have I not explained my position to you
                        from the beginning? Did you not acquiesce in my decision? If you want me to
                        provide those luxuries for you which madame now calls the necessaries of
                        life, suffer me to act in a manner which will be conducive to that end. To
                        acknowledge you openly now, before my position is more firmly secured, will
                        retard what you so ardently desire. We are both, it seems, ambitious; but,'
                        I added, bitterly, 'in what different ways! In another year or two, if
                        I——'
                    "'Another year or two!' exclaimed Antonella, stamping on the floor; 'that's
                        what you said at the first, and I'm already tired of——' but she stopped
                        abruptly.
                    "'Tired of what?'—I snapped her up now, in a concentrated rage—'tired of my
                        love, I suppose; because, forsooth, my lady can't ride in her carriage, and
                        be smothered in diamonds as those drivelling bankers propose! Tired, indeed!
                        Is it so long since you had to spin the silk just good enough now for you to
                        trail in the dust! You surely ought to know what toil means. And do I not
                        toil for you? While dressing yourself, or coquetting with half a dozen men
                        at a time,  now forms your one occupation,
                        am I not slaving away for you day and night?'
                    "'Fiddling and dancing attendance on the great, you mean! Toiling you call
                        that! Why cannot you make money like your friend Raoul, if you are as clever
                        as you would have me think?' she asked, contemptuously. 'But it's all
                        castles in the air with you, and promises—with that endless music-writing
                        which never brings in anything that I can see, but prevents you ever taking
                        me out, of course.'
                    "A sort of numb despair was creeping over me at her words: an impassable gulf
                        seemed yawning between us. What could ever heal speech such as this?
                    "'They tell me,' she went on, scarcely heeding me, but looking at herself in
                        the glass and arranging her hair, 'that a woman like me ought to have the
                        wealth of Golconda at her feet!'
                    "'Who tells you?' I hissed, half beside myself, seizing her by the wrist.
                        'You shall tell me who tells you!'
                    "Jealousy, love, anger, despair, were almost turning my brain.
                    "'Why, every man who sees me!' she laughed out, but her colour deepened, and
                        there was a defiant flash in her eyes.
                    "'You shall tell me!' I repeated, and there must have been something in the
                        tone of my voice, in the look of my eyes, that terrified her, for suddenly,
                        without previous warning, she burst into wild tears and sobs, and hiding her
                        face between her hands, dropped down on the nearest sofa. But for once I did
                        not heed her tears. I had let go her wrist again, and was pacing up  and down the studio, muttering to myself,
                        and feeling as though we were divided for ever. Was there then anything in
                        common between this woman and myself? And the anger I felt against her so
                        worked within me, that I was tempted to dash my brains out on the wall I was
                        leaning against.
                    "Louder and louder grew the sobs, and finding I paid no attention to them,
                        Tolla, to my utter amazement, suddenly flung herself at my feet, and seizing
                        my hand she moaned plaintively—
                    "'How hard you are on a poor girl who loves you, Emanuele! Do not look so
                        strangely at me. I am your Tolla! What did I say just now? I have forgotten.
                        Will you not forgive me?' And looking at me with a beseeching grace which
                        swept away all sense of alienation, she sighed softly—'Did I not risk my
                        here and hereafter because I loved you so?'
                    "Strange inconsistency! she was not lying when she spoke thus. And there was
                        delirium in the passion this behaviour inspired me with. I pressed her to my
                        heart; I covered her with kisses; I promised she should star it yet in all
                        the capitals of Europe with me! I painted our future to her in the most
                        glowing colours, and this picture so enchanted me that, putting my arm round
                        her waist, I waltzed her madly round the room, almost lifting her off the
                        floor at times, till we sank down at last, quite giddy and out of breath, on
                        the first seat that came in our way; where, laughing like the veriest
                        children, and pelting each other with his sofa cushions, Raoul found us on
                        his return. In the wildest of spirits we all went out together into the
                        glorious Roman sunlight and balmy air."
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER XXVI.
                    DESERTED.
                    "YES that was on a Friday evening! The minutest incident of that day is
                        indelibly fixed on my memory, for it was a turning-point of my fate.
                    "On the following afternoon, more light-hearted than usual, having recently
                        finished the composition of a particularly difficult piece for the violin, I
                        made my way to the Signora di Volterra. On the previous evening Tolla, under
                        the influence of our reconciliation, had said of her own accord, and with
                        many caresses, that she would not frequent Raoul's studio as constantly as
                        heretofore, but paint in her own room.
                    "She had long coveted a certain exquisite necklace of pink coral cameos,
                        which, had belonged to a Russian princess, and which happened to be on sale
                        at a certain dealer's. In my present elated state, and having made a good
                        sum by the copyright of my new work, I spent the whole of my gains on this
                        truly artistic trinket.  As I hurried
                        along, I pictured to myself Tolla's delight and her smile, and the look of
                        her glorious eyes, and her cajoling words, when I should clasp the necklace
                        round her throat.
                    "I reflected that, all things considered, it would be better, shortly, to
                        make the fact of our marriage public; and though, like a dark shadow, the
                        thought swept over me that it was wealth that she seemed to crave above
                        everything, I put the thought aside again as being in all likelihood
                        probably only a childish whim of hers.
                    "'Tolla, Tolla!' I cried, as I ran up the stairs, expecting to see her come
                        to meet me. I opened the door of her sitting-room. 'Tolla, are you making
                        yourself fine for a walk on the Pincio?' said I, in a bantering tone; going
                        towards her bedroom. 'Look, here's something towards beautifying the
                        beautiful—something that you've long wished for;' and I looked behind the
                        window-curtains, seeing that once or twice before she had playfully hidden
                        herself on hearing my footsteps, and enjoyed my mystification.
                    "But no, she was not there. She must be sitting with Signora di Volterra,
                        though such of late had not been her habit, and I knocked at the latter's
                        door.
                    "'Come in,' called the Signora, in a drowsy voice; and on entering I saw that
                        she was alone, and that I had just disturbed her in a nap.
                    "'I had thought to find my wife with you, as she is not in her own rooms,' I
                        said. 'I am afraid I have disturbed you.'
                    "'Your wife!' said the Signora, rubbing her eyes in drowsy astonishment;
                        'your wife with me!'
                    
                    "'Well,' I said, with an impatient laugh, 'considering she lives with you, is
                        there anything astonishing in that? Has she gone out on some errand or
                        other, and do you know in what direction? because I will go to meet
                        her.'
                    "'Eh, Dio mio,' cried the woman, now thoroughly roused, and opening her
                        sleepy eyes to the widest; 'why, she went out quite early this morning to go
                        with you, Signor, on a little expedition to Albano. She didn't think she'd
                        be home till to-morrow.'
                    "'Gone to Albano!—' I repeated, blankly. 'Gone with me to Albano.'
                    "'Didn't she say Albano, Concetta?' she called out to the servant in the
                        kitchen, who thereupon showed her frowsy head at the half-opened door.
                    "'Yes, yes, Signora,' she replied, 'I heard her saying she was going to meet
                        the Signor, her husband; and I watched her as she went down the street and
                        stepped into a carriage at the left-hand corner, Signora.'
                    "I felt a chill creep from my heart through the marrow of my bones, but I
                        only said quite calmly in a matter-of-fact tone, 'Thanks, that will do;' and
                        muttering, 'Gone to Albano!—' again retreated to Tolla's room. I shut the
                        door very softly, as though there was some one somewhere who might be
                        disturbed by it. Then I stood quite still, gazing vacantly about me, with
                        the same icy sensations running through me. I heard the ticking of the
                        clock, loud and fast, loud and fast; I heard the clatter of horses' hoofs
                        drawing near and nearer from a long way off, and then again faint and
                        fainter in the distance; I heard a Hebrew clothesman crying over and over
                        again, in a nasal voice, 'Roba,  roba
                        vecch!'—and I could not have told whether minutes or hours rolled by as
                        those sounds, still repeating themselves, struck upon my ear with
                        preternatural distinctness, and I listened as if there were nothing to do in
                        the world but to stand there listening to them. But suddenly I became
                        conscious of a burning, consuming thirst. Mechanically I walked to the
                        table, poured myself out a tumbler of water, and emptied it at a draught.
                        Then I looked about me as though I had just awakened from a deep sleep, and
                        with a noiseless step, as though it were I that had committed some crime,
                        hurried from one room to the other.
                    "I tossed all her dresses about as though she might be in one of them; tore
                        open the wardrobe, pulled out the drawers, tumbled everything upside down in
                        savage haste. All at once I came upon an old faded red handkerchief, the
                        same she had worn over her bosom when I had known her first; it seemed to
                        melt the heart within me, and I pressed it to my lips and kissed it, as
                        though it could feel my kisses. Then with a great cry flinging myself on the
                        bed, I wept—wept as I hope I may never weep again.
                    "Those tears brought no relief; each one seemed to sear me as it fell.
                        Suddenly, as I tossed about in my anguish, I felt a scrap of paper under my
                        face on the pillow; and there, pinned to it, was a note in my wife's
                        handwriting. With avidity I tore it off, and with eyes blinded with tears,
                        and almost frantic in my impatience, I painfully deciphered the hurried
                        scrawl—
                    
                    
                    "That was all! Clenching the paper in my hand as though it were a sentient
                        thing I could crush and annihilate, I threw myself off the bed with an
                        imprecation; rushing swiftly down the stairs, out of the house, along the
                        streets, on and on, as though I were following in some shadowy track, till I
                        was far out of Rome. A storm of conflicting passions tore me asunder. I
                        would dog them to the ends of the earth, wherever they might be, shoot both,
                        and myself after! Nothing should deter, nothing stop me, till I had been
                        avenged on them. Then suddenly, as in a kind of vision, I seemed to see her
                        whom I had loved clasp my knees—then reel back, with blood, red blood,
                        staining the grass, staining my hands, staining everything between me and
                        heaven; and the voice of her mother smote me like a sword as she wailed,
                        'Murderer, give me back my child!'
                    "I stopped, shivering, in my headlong course, with a horrible fear in my
                        veins; indeed, the agony which I now endured through my own imagination,
                        went a long way to deaden my feelings. I was humbled and impotent, as unfit
                        to act as to forgive; and I looked about me scared, dazed, bewildered.
                        Whither was I going? what would I do? Slowly I retraced my steps again, with
                        a great change at my heart.
                    "Quite late at night I got to Raoul's studio, and, utterly worn out, dropped
                        into a chair, muttering 'Antonella.' It was doubtful whether I was trying to
                        ask a question, or impart information.
                    "'Antonella?' repeated Raoul, looking at me with deep concern.
                    "I could get no other word out of my parched throat, but silently held out
                        her note to him, and remained  motionless,
                        staring on the floor, He went pacing up and down the room with the paper in
                        his hand, muttering and swearing. Neither of us spoke again for a long
                        time.
                    "'What is the meaning of it? I thought she was madly attached to you,' said
                        Raoul, at length, topping still in front of me; and then, as I made no sign,
                        he asked, 'Shall I go after her? Shall I make inquiries? What can I do for
                        you?'
                    "This I only negatived by signs, and my head and hands dropped as if they had
                        no power left in them.
                    "After a long interval, Raoul said, 'Have you any notion who it is she's gone
                        off with?' Then, as I made no answer, he added—'Perhaps it's as well she is
                        gone. Luckily no one knows you were married, and if you take my advice you
                        will let her go in silence; depend upon it you never could have done
                        anything with that girl.'
                    "'I'll do with her in such fashion that I'll kill her and her paramour,' I
                        cried, starting up as about to rush off, being again stung to madness by
                        Raoul's mention of our marriage. But Raoul interposed, and gently slipping
                        his arm round my heck said, 'There now, don't excite yourself, mon vieux; fellows with a mission like you and
                        me don't go mad about a woman.'
                    "I seemed to acquiesce, and seated myself again, but began sobbing like a
                        child. No one unless he has experienced this kind of desertion can perhaps
                        ever know the deep sense of humiliation it carries with it to a man.
                    "Raoul had seated himself opposite to me in a helpless way, as though he were
                        quite at the end of his  eloquence. At last
                        he said very tenderly, 'You suffer very much.'
                    "'To be betrayed by her I loved so dearly,' I murmured, amid unmanly
                        sobs.
                    "'If it's from this house she was led astray, the man shall have to do with
                        me, cried Raoul, striking his breast. 'But who can it be? So many of them
                        have been leaving these last few days. Fool that I was to have her to paint!
                        Can you ever forgive me for my share in this sad business, Emanuel?'
                    "But here I broke in: 'Whoever's to blame I know that thou art the soul of
                        honour, and would'st never in ought have acquiesced in this dire treachery.
                        'But it is enough. I have wept tears that disgrace me. Could she come back
                        now the past could never be replaced. Bitter as it is, it must be borne in
                        silence.'"
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER XXVII.
                    VICTORY AND DEFEAT.
                    "I TOOK Raoul's advice. Though the iron had entered my soul I made no sign.
                        And by tacit consent we never mentioned her name again; nor did I find out
                        what had. become of her, nor with whom she had gone off, till long
                        afterwards.
                    
                    "Soon after this I left Rome. The place had become hateful to me. I had
                        besides got my first regular engagement at Vienna. It was then that I began
                        to be popular in Germany, which for musical culture is, of course, far ahead
                        of other countries. I did not stay long, however, in my native country,
                        although two cities, Carlsruhe and Weimar, offered me engagements for the
                        season.
                    "A demon of restlessness possessed me. I hurried from country to country.
                        Wherever I went my stay  was a triumph.
                        Germany, England, Russia, America, were visited in turn. Money poured in,
                        fame increased, but where was the happiness that should have accompanied
                        them! The one being for whom I craved, and for whom I had chiefly craved
                        this great success, was lost to me; and what was worse, had deserted, basely
                        and cruelly deserted me. It was torture to think of. For to lose what we
                        love by death sanctifies grief—then we may find some consolation even in our
                        tears; but in such a loss as mine our very sorrow turns to shame, and the
                        tears that should relieve seem to disgrace us. Thus the envenomed grief
                        rankled in me; and yet, strange to say, the more it rankled, the greater my
                        agony, the higher the spirit of music raised me on her wings, and my very
                        torture seemed a cause of endless delight to the public."
                    
                    "Hark!" said Sontheim, "there's the Minster bell actually striking three
                        o'clock! How the night is passing; but your story is so engrossing that one
                        loses all count of time. What an experience to have undergone, my poor
                        friend. But as Racine has it, 'Aucun chemin de fleurs ne conduit à la
                        gloire'—and glory you certainly have achieved; no doubt those great emotions
                        serve to fertilize the imagination."
                    Emanuel seemed hardly to hear him; he had buried his head in his hands, and
                        appeared to be silently absorbed in the past.
                    The moon had long since set, but there was now a faint tinge of dawn, making
                        the stars look more remote as though slowly departing. A little breeze had
                        sprung  up, and went shivering and rustling
                        through the leaves; and had the summer not been at its height this might
                        have been chilling instead of delightfully refreshing. Suddenly on the
                        stillness there broke the twitter of a bird—then all was quiet again.
                    Sontheim, who had left off smoking for the last few minutes, said
                        reflectively: "I verily believe that one enjoys existence more and more as
                        one gets older. This morning now makes me feel quite lyrical, and as glad as
                        the little songster we have just heard. For the life of me I cannot help
                        quoting a poem though it is of my own manufacture— 
                            
                                "Now God be praised for my delight
                                In His creation's goodly shows;
                                Meseems its beauty on my sight
                                With each revolving season grows.
                            
                            
                                This joy, which old age cannot tame,
                                May still burn clear for many a day,
                                Unless a gust put out the flame
                                Long ere the taper's burnt away."
                            
                        
                    This poem still producing no response from his friend, the philosophic
                        professor once more withdrew, and reappeared with fresh bottles, one of
                        which he uncorked. Emanuel still refused everything but a glass of water.
                        "You are like one of the gods themselves," said Sontheim, filling his pipe
                        afresh, and resettling himself in his chair: "you seem above our common
                        wants. But pray go on now, I should like to hear about some of your
                        triumphs. Your music is so new that it was not likely to become popular all
                        at once."
                    
                    "Well, as to that," said Emanuel, "it would be too long a story, but
                        certainly if I met with enthusiasm there was also no want of the most
                        virulent opposition, especially in Paris, where I now arrived after about
                        seven year of this erratic existence. The French capital, of course, is the
                        goal of a musician's career. It is there alone we can now receive that
                            cachet which ensures us a permanent
                        European reputation."
                    "Yes, unfortunately it is so at present," sighed Sontheim; "but wait till we
                        are a united Germany—then it is we who shall dispense the laurel crown as
                        well as supply the wearers of it. But now I must not interrupt you
                        again."
                    "Well, I had been about a month in Paris, and was preparing to give a great
                        concert. I was more than usually excited and agitated. Life there, with its
                        brilliant society, its grand entertainments, its convivialities, luxuries,
                        and dissipations of all kinds, is something so swift and tumultuous that you
                        are swept along by it as on a resistless current.
                    "I was divided between this social whirl—which even had I so wished I could
                        not dare neglect—and the thousand and one preparations which were necessary
                        for the success of my undertaking.
                    "The new or German school, it is true, idolized me; but there was a strong
                        cabal against me formed by the old French faction. I was reviled, not only
                        as artist, but in my private character. My name was trailed in the mud;
                        outrageous stories were bruited about, and in some of the comic papers I was
                        held up to public ridicule. The most absurd rumour invented by these
                        infernal Parisians was, that having strangled my wife  in her own hair I had been incarcerated for
                        years—whence all my skill as a virtuoso.
                    "You may imagine how all this served to exasperate my naturally irritable
                        temperament. I seemed to have lost the faculty of sleep, and after passing
                        half my nights at assemblies or with boon companions, I used to spend the
                        other half pacing the streets of the capital to appease my excitement.
                    "At last arrived the day of the concert, which was to be given at the Salle
                        Hertz. No pains had been spared by my adherents to make it an unquestionable
                        success; still I knew that my enemies were busily working against me in
                        secret, and, the public is like a woman, you know—it is impossible to
                        predict what turn it is going to take next.
                    "The Salle Hertz was crowded when I arrived; but whether with friends or
                        detractors I knew not. Cries proceeded from the entrance lobbies, owing to
                        the pushing and crushing of the throng. The best places had been all taken
                        for weeks beforehand. People sat in the narrow passages leading to the
                        different parts of the hall, many having even managed to perch themselves on
                        the steps of the platform. It was frightfully hot when I took my place
                        there.
                    "Never since the beginning of my career had I felt so nervously excited. One
                        side of me was burning hot, while the other was cold as ice. My throat and
                        mouth were parched as with fever. All those faces swayed in front of me in a
                        blurred, indistinct cloud alive with a thousand eyes; and all those thousand
                        eyes focussed upon me emitted curious magnetic vibrations like little arrows
                        flying in my direction.
                    
                    "In this feverish condition I took up my instrument, and in the short
                        interval before my bow fell on the strings with that first thrilling energy
                        of sound which rivets our audience, the silence was so intense that the
                        motion of a fan, even a sigh, might have been heard.
                    "The orchestra hung upon the movements of my bow with an enthusiasm of
                        obedience; for a time they and I seemed to move with the unity of one
                        existence. We were giving my fifth Concerto, since so celebrated in the
                        first part, which is vivace in D
                        minor—but, by-the-bye, you don't understand this.
                    "The public listened with the most absorbed and edifying attention; but at
                        the first short break in my own individual part, as soon as they saw my bow
                        drop when the orchestra were carrying on the motive, the inimical clique
                        began their preconcerted efforts to annihilate me. Owing, however, to
                        defection in their own ranks through changes of opinion, or to the
                        formidable opposition displayed by the general public, this attempt became
                        indistinguishable in the general enthusiasm. In despite of all etiquette
                        murmurs of approbation were heard, which soon grew into a perfect storm of
                        clapping and applause. The orchestra played the louder, and laughed at each
                        other in their efforts to drown the roar of applause by a still louder
                        instrumental roar.
                    "I now felt at home again, as with my dear Viennese or my enthusiastic
                        Russian audiences. The rest of the piece went off in a sort of rhythmic
                        balance of mutual confidence between public and musicians.
                    "Further details about the progress of this concert, important as they were
                        to me, would not interest you.  Enough that
                        it carried everything before it, quelled all opposition; it was an
                        unparalleled success, in short.
                    "I now came on for the final piece, which was my Tarantella, of course. For
                        this, though not really one of my best considered from a musician's point of
                        view, always remained the popular favourite. It has all the freshness and go
                        of a first work, and certainly bears the impress of the fantastic
                        circumstances to which it owed its birth.
                    "Well, I had got to that part in the piece where, as the tempo quickened—the
                        whole scene always lived before me as I played—Antonella of old had begun
                        her swift convulsive movements, when the profound stillness that reigned in
                        the Salle Hertz was broken by a low, convulsive sobbing.
                    "I had noticed that this particular tarantella of mine sometimes wrought upon
                        women of highly nervous organizations to this pitch, and therefore thought
                        nothing of it, but went on with my playing. But the sobbing, which had
                        ceased for awhile, seemed to grow louder and more irrepressible; there was
                        an unusual stir and hubbub in the orchestra stalls to the left, and looking
                        up I saw—with an indescribable pang I saw—the woman who had betrayed and
                        forsaken me, magnificent in beauty and wealth, the centre of anxious
                        attentions, her head thrown back, her dark, mysterious eyes fixed upon
                        me.
                    "The turbulent emotions which leaped to life in me again at sight of this
                        vision, it would be impossible to describe. To fling down my bow, jump from
                        the platform, rush towards her—what for I knew not—was my first distinct
                        impulse.
                    
                    "But a virtuoso on the boards is like a general at the head of his troops—he
                        dare no more desert his post than the latter could. My heart gave a kind of
                        bound like a caged tiger, but I remained immovable, and my arm went on
                        playing as though nothing had happened. All this time I acutely saw, felt,
                        and suffered—I might say—the presence of the woman whose heart had once, and
                        never again might beat against my own.
                    "Her sobs had ceased now, and she was turning to livid pallor; her white
                        hands, glittering with rings, clutched at the air; and once or twice I
                        fancied she showed an impulse to break from the restraint that encircled
                        her, and launch forth into her old dancing frenzy. But as compassionate
                        hands were fanning and sprinkling her with scent, she now went into one of
                        those death-like trances that I remembered only too well. Still I went on
                        playing vivace vivacissimo, the glee of my
                        music sounding perfectly diabolical to me as I saw them carrying her, like a
                        dead and rigid body, through the dense throng which, awe-stricken, made way
                        for the bearers.
                    "For all that I played on to the end—the end that was never coming, it seemed
                        to my tortured feelings. When it did come I almost flung down my beloved old
                        Stradivarius, as I automatically bowed to the audience, that clapped,
                        shouted, stamped, wept, laughed, seeming indeed to have gone clean mad with
                        delight, and burst into such a clamour that, much against my will, I had to
                        turn back as I was hastening away, when they rose to their feet like one
                        man. Then I felt arms embracing me, and hands shaking me by the hand, and
                        some one kissing me on the cheek, while a torrent of congratulations  were poured into my ear. Vainly trying to
                        get free, I cried out in desperation at last, 'Pray, pray let me go; I have
                        a friend who's dying, I tell you!'
                    "Released at length, I hurried through a passage, and, I don't exactly know
                        how, found my way to the door through which she had disappeared into a small
                        kind of waiting-room, with its unavoidable red velvet sofa. On it, with
                        closed eyes and a face of unearthly pallor, the demon-angel of my existence
                        lay stretched like a corpse, in the long, stiff folds of her white brocade
                        dress; with the mass of her long black, now disordered, hair shed all about
                        her. Seeing her in this state, my heart yearned relentingly as towards one
                        dead. Could I turn and fly from her presence, and leave her thus?—and, yet,
                        should I not!
                    "Only a few of the puzzled and frightened concert-room attendants, having
                        exhausted all sorts of remedies, were still standing about her now. They
                        believed some one had gone for a doctor, but no one of them seemed to
                        consider himself responsible. Thereupon I told them that I knew this lady;
                        that she did not want the doctor; that they should go and call her carriage.
                        Although they assured me that there was none, I bade them go and look for it
                        again.
                    "In the impulse of the moment everything was forgotten but that she lay there
                        seemingly lifeless, alone and forsaken for aught I knew, left to the care of
                        mercenary attendants, with no hand to succour, no eye to watch over her. I
                        could not deliberate—deliberation, I fear, is not my forte—but when the attendants returned after a fruitless
                        search, I ordered a voiture de place; and
                        then taking the insensible woman in my arms, I carried  her into it, telling the man to drive to my
                        apartment in the Rue de Rivoli.
                    "On reaching home, with the assistance of my servant I carried her, still
                        unconscious, to my rooms on the entresol;
                        and hardly knowing how to act, or what to do next, I bade my valet to keep
                        himself in readiness if wanted.
                    "Who was she? What was she? She who had been my wife, and the life of my life
                        at one time—now here, an unknown stranger to me!
                    "The unmistakable perfection of her Parisian attire, which had none of the
                        garishness of hastily acquired meretricious wealth, seemed indicative of
                        rank and high station; yet here she lay, to all appearances quite forlorn
                        and unattended.
                    "While I stood there, looking at her beautiful figure in its helpless
                        abandonment, with a sudden return of the old passionate feeling warring with
                        my sense of self-respect and outraged honour, I confess to you that I wished
                        she might never waken again from her deathlike trance.
                    "Had she expired then, expired seemingly from the poignancy of emotion which
                        my playing had called up in her, must I not have forgotten, forgiven all!
                        Had she not come there perchance drawn as by some magnetic, overmastering
                        force? At these thoughts my heart relented within me. And while gazing on
                        her pallid features, oblivious of everything, my eyes grew wet with
                        unaccustomed tears. Yes, had she died then, the mute majesty of death would
                        have wiped out her guilt from my memory, to have left there alone the image
                        of my incomparable Capri maiden.
                    
                    "But all at once, even as I thought thus, there passed a slight tremor over
                        her whole frame, like the sudden ruffling of a wind-swept lake. Slowly she
                        opened her eyes, and mistily as yet their gaze dwelt upon me. Then her lips
                        quivered, and softly, scarcely audibly, she sighed, 'Emanuele.'
                    "The well-known sound of my name thus pronounced by her gave me a kind of
                        electric commotion. I started to my feet and away from her.
                    "'Emanuele,' she sighed, a little louder than before, 'Emanuele, dove sono? Was it all a dream? Are you with me
                        still?'
                    "I approached a step nearer, and our eyes met. With her returning life,
                        returned upon me the full consciousness of her treachery; then I vehemently
                        put out my hand as though to thrust her far, far away from me. 'No, not a
                        dream,' I said, in a strangled voice; 'you must be dreaming now, Madame
                        ——?'
                    "'Oh, not that—not that from you!' she cried.
                    "But seeing me move to the door, as I said in a voice I tried to render as
                        hard as possible, 'Now that Madame has recovered, perhaps she will say where
                        it is she wishes to be conveyed to,' she suddenly sprang to her feet, and
                        with my hand already on the door handle I felt two soft arms clasping me
                        round the neck, and a warm cheek laid against mine and her kisses on my lips
                        as she murmured—
                    "'Through all, through everything, I was yet true to you.'
                    "Heigho, my friend," sighed Emanuel, after a considerable pause—abruptly
                        breaking into a jaunty laugh; then in a blasé tone he added, "Let us laugh and love  while we may, for the night cometh when no man
                        can do so! To escape the Sirens we should keep well out of arm's reach of
                        their enchantments.
                    "Was it not shameful to fall in love with one's own wife over again?"
                    "I never heard so extraordinary a story," cried Sontheim, excitedly. "Go on!
                        Who on earth was she?"
                    The clock of the Minster here struck four. Emanuel's face looked strangely
                        haggard in the pure, clear morning light. He tossed off a tumbler of water,
                        and then said—
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER XXVIII.
                    SPELL-BOUND.
                    "WHO was she? That was the question I asked myself as soon as I left her that
                        night. From vague hints which she subsequently gave me, I fancied that she
                        had either been left by her supposed husband, or that he was dead or—what
                        cared I! To judge by appearances he had evidently settled considerable
                        property on her. But you can imagine that I was not in an inquiring mood,
                        nor inclined to discover what could naturally be but of the most painful
                        nature. All I cared to know was that she was beautiful as ever, that she was
                        free to love me and apparently did love me!
                    "I went to see her again next day. Five minutes before the time appointed I
                        stood in front of the Porte Cochère of the hotel Mortemar.—Despise me,
                        Sontheim, I give you leave!
                    "A sedate-looking powdered footman answered the bell, and I handed him my
                        card in silence, as I did not know under what name to ask for her. But he
                        merely said 'Madame la Comtesse would receive me,' as he  led the way to the compact, elegant house
                        standing between courtyard and garden.
                    "Somewhat surprised I followed the domestic, and was ushered into a dim,
                        richly-scented, heavily-draped boudoir.
                    "With the consummate grace of a lady of the highest 'ton,' Madame, la
                        Comtesse half rose from the causeuse on
                        which she was languidly reclining, and held out the tips of her fingers,
                        glittering with rings, as the domestic retired.
                    "'Not my Capri girl,' I half muttered, 'but her double perhaps!' And I sat
                        down, almost embarrassed, I swear.
                    "'All the world is talking about you and nothing else!' said she, with
                        perfect self-possession, playing with one of her rings. 'Do you know that
                        all the ladies are dying to make your acquaintance? Indeed it is a privilege
                        to have you coming here in this way, sans
                            faÇon.'
                    "I was utterly aghast! The calm assurance of her manner literally took my
                        breath away. If she had forgotten all our antecedents, nay, the very meeting
                        last night, she could not have looked or spoken more unconcernedly. I grew
                        furious, but kept my countenance. She should not fool me to the top of her
                        bent!
                    "'How well you act!' I said, clapping my hands and bowing admiringly. 'Had
                        Madame vouchsafed to go on the stage, I make no doubt her fame would
                        completely have eclipsed mine. But pardon my rudeness. There is no need for
                        Madame to become famous in order that all the men should be dying to make
                        her acquaintance."
                    
                    "'How charming it is not to be taken au grand
                            sérieux, she cried, and her dazzling eyes laughed out more
                        than her mouth did. 'But Monsieur is spoilt with all his triumphs, I see,
                        and expects us to bow down to his genus. Allow me to throw my modicum of
                        homage at your feet as I could not clap you yesterday,' she said, with her
                        enigmatic smile; and taking a half-blown rose from some she wore fastened in
                        a knot on her white dress, she for an instant put it to her lips, then with
                        a sudden indescribable look that seemed to mount to my brain like a sweet
                        narcotic, she flung it at my feet.
                    "I stooped and picked up the rose, but that was all.
                    "'You do not prize what others would go mad after,' she said, pouting and
                        pulling another of her roses to pieces. You are——'
                    "'What?' I exclaimed savagely.
                    "She looked into my eyes, and then all at once, as though struck with dismay,
                        clasped her hands, crying—'Ah, you will not betray me! Say you will not
                        betray me, Emanuele!"
                    "'Not take a leaf out of your book, in fact, Madame!' I rejoined, in the same
                        bitter tone.
                    "Did I love, did I hate this woman? It was difficult to tell, so strange a
                        conflict raged within me.
                    "'You know I have always loved you, none but you!' she exclaimed
                        passionately, with all her languor gone, as she rose and made a step towards
                        me.
                    "'That is why you left me some four years ago or so,' I remarked; 'but Madame
                        la Comtesse has no doubt forgotten that little episode. She sees in me now
                        the great virtuoso—then, it is true, I was but a struggling fiddler.'
                    
                    "Rage and contempt were violently struggling with the unreasoning passion
                        that again threatened to master my better self.
                    "'Ah, I was a fool, though I meant for the best,' she cried, impatiently; and
                        then with glowing emotion—'You do not know, you can never know, Emanuele,
                        how bitterly I have repented it,' and she again advanced a little
                        nearer.
                    "'Not a fool, though this may be a fool's paradise, at any rate for me!' I
                        remarked, looking around me significantly.
                    "'Ah, you were always hard, and cruel, and cold,' she cried; 'but if I am the
                        unfeeling thing you would make me out, say why, why did your music almost
                        kill me yesterday?' she asked, tremulously.
                    "'Oh, Antonella! Antonella!' burst from me almost in despite of myself; 'I
                        should like to kill us both and have done with this shameful situation!' and
                        had there been a knife or dagger about just then, I think I should have
                        verified some of the dreadful stories that were afloat about me.
                    "'I would rather be killed than despised by you,' she sobbed, pointing to her
                        throat, and looking at me with swimming eyes.
                    "She had once again triumphed over me! She had broken through the artificial
                        barriers I had vainly tried to erect between us. Indeed, she had grown in
                        all the secrets of allurement, in all the sorceries of love. And I—I—got
                        still more entangled with the woman who was my wife, but bore some other
                        man's name."
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER XXIX.
                    A STRANGE ENCOUNTER.
                    "WHOSE, I did not find out immediately, for I kept apart from every one, and
                        Antonella took care only to see me alone.
                    "She had beguiled me into believing that if she were no longer mine, at least
                        she was free from other ties. How she had come by her Countess-ship I did
                        not care to inquire. I quaffed the poisoned cup of pleasure she held to my
                        lips and drained it feverishly; but I was not happy—I never was so miserable
                        in all my life, I believe.
                    From some innate perversity of nature she now developed an ardour of passion
                        for me far different from her feelings when she might have loved me
                        innocently. When I, in my excess of self-disgust, at times tried to be
                        brutal to her—for my feelings, too, had undergone a complete revolution—she
                        seemed to love me all the more.
                    "It is true I was now a celebrity; great people  prized my greatness; fair ladies vied with each
                        other for my presence, and lavished their smiles and what not upon me,
                        Forgive me—this sounds like foppery, but it is not; one soon gets to prize
                        these things at their true value.
                    "None of these 'Grandes Dames' ever felt the soul of music as that dreamy,
                        heavenly god-child of yours! She herself is music, indeed! But I beg her
                        pardon for mentioning her dear name in such company as this!
                    "It was neither the musician nor his music—it was the musician's fame that
                        Antonella adored.
                    "Sometimes I could hardly believe her the same the 'Tolla' of Rome and Capri:
                        the same with the petted model of Raoul's studio, or the short-skirted
                        peasant girl dancing in the ruins of Tiberius.
                    "She had certainly developed since then, if not in actual beauty, at least in
                        grace, and in all those indefinable witcheries and mysteries of dress and
                        manner that charm us men even more. In my own despite I felt all that charm
                        only too acutely, and yet hated myself for feeling it. There was something
                        of provocation in the way she would wear her laces, or a sprig of damask
                        roses; and the scents about her resembled subtle combinations of
                        harmony.
                    "And then how brilliantly had she not learned to discourse—on all the topics
                        of the day, or of nothings, which often amounts to the same? From the
                        picture of the year at the 'Salon,' to the latest attempt upon Louis
                        Philippe, or some new-fledged socialistic Utopia of Cabet or
                        Proudhon—nothing came amiss to her; and all subjects possessed about equal
                        advantages in showing off to admiring listeners.
                    
                    "I confess I often forgot to listen to what she was saying, lost in
                        admiration, as in the old times, of the delicious curves of her lips while
                        speaking. I had thus passed rather more than a week, seeing her daily, in a
                        frame of mind which possibly resembled that of an opium-eater's dreams. All
                        action of the will held in abeyance, all recollection of the past or
                        forethought for the future annulled. Held by the magic darkness of her eyes,
                        the world with its imperative claims and duties was expunged,
                        obliterated.
                    "This state of things could not last, of course. But it happened to be the
                        beginning of June, a time when the fashionable world of Paris disperses to
                        the country or the sea-side.
                    "One afternoon when I went at the usual hour to see Antonella, I noticed an
                        unwonted stir and commotion about the place. On being admitted, I was told
                        that Madame la Comtesse was on the point of leaving Paris, but would see me
                        for a few minutes, if I would wait for her, in her boudoir.
                    "I was quite taken by surprise. She had not hinted at a journey
                        yesterday.
                    "Moodily I threw myself into a chair. Five minutes passed. 'Will she never
                        come!' I muttered impatiently, and I began tossing the knick-knacks on the
                        table about.
                    "The door opened abruptly, and the Countess, with a certain white look,
                        almost as though she had seen a ghost, glided swiftly towards me, and,
                        putting her hands on my shoulders, said in her most caressing tones—
                    "'We must part for a little while, my love, for I go out of town for a few
                        days, but will write to you immediately on my return.'
                    
                    "Why, you look, my dear, as though you had just had a visit from the defunct
                        Count—that soi-disant husband of yours,' I
                        said, ironically. 'I hope he did not indulge in useless recriminations!'
                    "'Hush, hush!' she cried, quite taken aback;'what do you mean by
                        defunct?'
                    "'Alive, then!' I cried. 'Your——'
                    "For a moment I felt as though I could rush upon the man that instant and
                        fight him to the death. Then I burst into a long, immoderate fit of
                        laughter.
                    "'It is stifling here,' I cried, and then I threw open the window and the
                            persienne.
                    "Why should I fight that unhappy man, thought I, the next instant. He
                        certainly had the worst of it; and there was something too ridiculous in the
                        situation. God forbid I should make it public!
                    "Antonella, seeing that I remained doggedly at the window—having, indeed,
                        come to the conclusion that the sudden journey was all a hoax—cried
                        imperiously—
                    "'Go! go! Do you wish to—to——'
                    "'I have no objection whatever to meeting Monsieur le Comte—perhaps you will
                        kindly acquaint me now with his name as well as your own.'
                    "There was a loud ringing of bells, and the sound of a heavy travelling
                        equipage was heard rumbling across the courtyard. I was still standing by
                        the window. Suddenly I felt myself pulled backwards with the energy of
                        desperation. Antonella was in a towering rage; but it became her
                        superbly.
                    "'Do not put yourself out so!' said I, quietly, shrugging my shoulders; 'I
                        shall be charmed to make the Count's acquaintance.'
                    
                    "'But it is—it is—Ogotshki!' she gasped. 'I only heard from him this—you—he
                        will——'
                    "'Be delighted, no doubt, as you yourself were, to renew his acquaintance
                        with a person now so celebrated as myself.'
                    "'You will not——' she cried, and there was a dangerous gleam in her eyes.
                    "'Calm yourself! I will not compromise Madame la Comtesse Ogotshki,' I said,
                        with great composure.
                    "She now, by a consummate effort of will, regained an almost unnatural calm.
                        Without looking at me she left the room. She met the Count below, and
                        remained absent about five minutes. Presently she returned, hanging on his
                        arm in the most natural manner while gaily talking to him.
                    "'Wenceslaw, here is an old friend of ours,' she said graciously, introducing
                        us; 'you remember him, no doubt, as one of the little coterie that used to assemble in M. Leroux's
                        studio. He happened to call in just before your arrival, and I begged him to
                        stay a minute, and see you. I daresay the furore which his concert created here may even have reached
                        your idyllic retreat at Ems.'
                    "There was an imperceptible movement of the Count's eyebrows, which no one
                        but myself would probably have noticed; then he held out his hand most
                        affably to me and said—
                    "'Very glad to see you—very charmed indeed, M. Sturm! Are you making a long
                        stay in Paris? And how is your friend, M. Leroux? He does not often brighten
                        our Paris with his presence!'
                    "The Count, I thought, had aged very much since I  had last seen him that memorable,
                        never-to-be-forgotten day.
                    "And here was I face to face with the man that had done me the greatest
                        injury that they say, in ordinary parlance, one man can do to another. It is
                        true that perhaps from his point of view he might say as much of me; but
                        here we sat amicably together, and for some ten minutes kept up a trivial
                        kind of conversation, during which I learnt that the Count had been taking
                        the waters at Ems for some chronic disease or other, but had found his
                        nerves so irritated by the cure that he came away without stopping the full
                        term fixed upon.
                    "Having discussed the Ems waters, music, the threatening aspect of the
                        political horizon, I took my leave, after accepting an invitation to dine
                        there on the following Tuesday. The state of mind in which I left the house
                        is indescribable. But I determined to go back, for the sake of appearances.
                        The daring of this woman in ever having permitted us two to meet was
                        stupendous! But now I feared nothing so much as the ridicule of a
                        disclosure."
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER XXX.
                    A NEW VERSION OF AN OLD STORY.
                    "HERE goes five o'clock," said Sontheim; "what a glorious morning! I hear the
                        maid stirring; I must go and order the breakfast to be brought out here,"
                        and he disappeared into the kitchen.
                    From the arbour close by the house where Emanuel was sitting, he dreamily
                        surveyed the stretch of neighbouring gardens, all lit up and sparkling in
                        the dew and early sunlight. An unwonted sensation of well-being crept over
                        him as little puffs of air, smelling of sweetbriar and honeysuckle, played
                        about his temples. The leaves and grass, slightly shivering now and then,
                        looked as though they had just risen from a bath. Here and there from the
                        fresh-lit fires of neighbouring chimneys blue smoke began to rise straight
                        up to the cloudless sky: two white-winged pigeons darted across it, while
                        from a dove-cot near, the loud yet mellow "rooke-te-koo" of others was
                        heard. A cock was crowing  his loudest in
                        honour of his majesty the Sun, and another somewhere in the distance
                        responded to it like an echo.
                    The glad singing of birds all together filled the air with an indistinct
                        musical murmur, and now and then some human voices, such as the milkmaid's
                        cry, blended not unpleasantly with these rural sounds.
                    Sontheim now returned and resumed his old seat.
                    A neighbour, as round as an egg, with a long china pipe hanging from his
                        mouth, gave them a husky "good morning" as he toddled down his garden path
                        to dig at his potatoes.
                    "Don't let us lose any more time," said Sontheim, eagerly, for Emanuel, lost
                        in thought, was tracing all manner of figures in the sand with a light cane;
                        "you had just accepted an invitation to dinner, and I want to hear what came
                        of it."
                    "Oh, nothing came of that," said Emanuel; plucking a spray of honeysuckle,
                        smelling at it, and sticking it in his button-hole.
                    "I don't know whether any one had got wind of the affair by this time; but at
                        any rate these things do not usually get reported to the husband, especially
                        in Paris.
                    "The dinner was a grand affair; everybody who was somebody had been raked
                        together at this the beginning of the dull time of year.
                    "I was lionized. Antonella outdid even herself—all cobweb laces and rubies:
                        nothing could surpass the fascinating elegance of this woman at the head of
                        her table; and the Count followed suit in this three-handed game.
                    "'I am so glad'—said the latter, coming up to me in  the drawing-room, now that the imperious
                        conversationalists of his dinner-table allowed him to edge in a word—'that I
                        at last have an opportunity of thanking you, M. Sturm, for the kindness you
                        showed my wife at Rome.'
                    "I bowed silent acquiescence.
                    "'She told me all about it long ago,' he went on, in his courteously drawling
                        tones: 'how she, an orphan, was forced into a convent by hard-hearted
                        relatives, and half driven out of her mind there; how gallantly M. Leroux,
                        who had made her acquaintance while painting at Capri, and you, M. Sturm,
                        rescued her at great peril to yourselves. How you both placed her with a
                        poor but well-connected Roman lady, and paid for her education there; when
                        your friend, discovering her turn for painting, set about making an artist
                        of her, only unfortunately that my own appearance at this juncture diverted
                        the fair pupil's gifts into another channel.'
                    "He laughed rather feebly at what I suppose was meant for a joke. I wondered
                        whether the poor old man was credulous enough to be taken in by so palpable
                        an untruth, or whether he merely wished to make me believe that he believed
                        it.
                    "However, I don't think he was deep enough for that. Unlike most of the
                        Russian nobles I have come across, usually so full of cunning,
                        dissimulation, and astuteness, he seemed to be curiously gullible, while in
                        a certain slackness of moral fibre he again bore a strong resemblance to
                        them.
                    "But it was easy to see that he was completely subjugated by Antonella's
                        beauty and subtle fascination.  I think,
                        had she chosen, she might at last have made him believe that the moon was
                        made of cream cheese.
                    "You see she had so many arrows in her quiver. If her charms for once missed
                        their aim, she could always, in extremity, resort to that extraordinary
                        hysterical condition, so nearly resembling death, that no man with the 
                            slighest
                            slightest
                         feeling for her in his heart could possibly resist the mute
                        appeal.
                    "But I am wandering from the point. Well, the Count further complimented me
                        on what he was pleased to term such noble conduct on the part of two young
                        men; while I, quite overcome by this new version of my story, could only
                        murmur some words in deprecation.
                    "The Count, apparently in perfect good faith, went on to say: 'Perhaps you
                        may have thought my conduct, on the other hand, less commendable at the
                        time. But the fact is'—he hesitated for a moment—'I was so taken with her
                        that I thought it best to carry her off, quite out of reach of two such
                        attractive young men!' he smiled with self-satisfaction at his own
                        acuteness. 'In fact my wife had hinted at the state of M. Leroux's feelings
                        towards her, and considering the excitability of his temper I thought it
                        best to take her for a time to some outlying estate of mine in Russia. She
                        wrote to you both from there, but we were never honoured with a reply from
                        either of you gentlemen.'
                    "'Oh, I believe we both left Rome almost immediately after you did, Count,' I
                        hastened to put in.
                    "'Ah, that accounts for your silence,' he replied. 'I hope M. Leroux has long
                        ago forgiven me;' then, with a rather vacuous smile, 'You know, M. Sturm,
                        you artists are all so wrapt in your art that you cannot  possibly care for a woman as we ordinary mortals
                        do.'
                    He was moving away, but turning round again, said blandly, 'While you are
                        staying in Paris, I hope that you will make yourself quite at home
                        here.'
                    "Indeed I was making myself quite at home! Presently, to oblige my hosts, I
                        played some trifles on the violin. Whilst I did so, Antonella was leaning
                        with her back against a glass-door leading into the conservatory. I could
                        only see her in profile. She was exceedingly pale, and her dark eyes, full
                        of smouldering passion, were gazing straight in front of her. Her
                            pose was superb; she held a cactus flower in her clasped hands,
                        but now and then, with a nervous action, pulled out one of its petals.
                    "When I had ceased; she came up to me for the first time that evening, and,
                        after a few words, said, with that strange, subtle smiling of hers, 'The
                        Count was talking to you for a long time; may one know, sir, what it was all
                        about?'
                    "I quite understood her, however. She knew perfectly what effect she had
                        produced upon me just now; even the cactus flower had not been there by mere
                        accident. She thought she would wind me round her little finger again.
                    "'It was all about your powers of original invention, Madame, which ought
                        certainly to have secured you a foremost place among——'
                    "'Among—among whom, sir, pray?' she asked, looking tauntingly at me.
                    "'That I must allow Madame to find out at her leisure,' I said, and abruptly
                        took my leave.
                    
                    "My leave for good, I vowed, as I threw myself back in the carriage. It was
                        too intolerable—too disintegrating to one's whole moral nature! This coil of
                        deceit and the ignoble figure I played in it filled me with loathing. Now
                        that I knew that the weak-minded, uxorious Count was really amongst the
                        living, I would not set my foot in the house again, since I had saved
                        appearances by my visit. In order to keep my resolution, I avoided all the
                        streets that led near the Count's hotel, as though in my own despite I might
                        get within the radius of the siren's attraction and be drawn afresh within
                        its irresistible current. I was occupied in the meanwhile in winding up my
                        affairs in Paris, previous to my starting for New York."
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER XXXI.
                    A STORM IN A BOUDOIR.
                    "I WAS not to get off so easily, however. As my evil genius would have it, I
                        was sauntering late one afternoon in the Bois de Bologne, when in one of its
                        avenues I came unexpectedly upon the Countess Ogotshki walking with another
                        lady.
                    "She caught sight of me before I could make my escape, had I had the will as
                        well as the wish.
                    "'Here is the very man we were speaking of,' she said, coming towards me with
                        her long, swaying walk that, like everything else about her, had an
                        indescribable grace. She was all sweetness, all amiability. 'Madame de G——
                        was just telling me how much she wished to make your acquaintance, M. Sturm.
                        She raves about your Concerto in D minor, which I unfortunately missed the
                        other evening at your concert, coming in late as I did; for I happened to be
                        at the soirée of some friends with whom I had come up from the  country that day, But when I heard of your
                        concert, nothing could stay me, and in spite of my friends' assurances of
                        the impossibility of procuring a seat, I came off all by myself, and
                        fortunately for me golden arguments prevailed, and one of the attendants
                        made a place for me.'
                    "'What charming enthusiasm!' cried the other lady. 'I remember now seeing you
                        come in——'
                    "'Ah, yes,' said Antonella, looking at me significantly, 'but you did not see
                        me carried out again fainting, all owing to M. Sturm's Tarantella—for the
                        heat had nothing to do with it. But here comes the carriage; let us drive
                        you back to Paris, Monsieur.'
                    '"I could not summon resolution enough to refuse.
                    'Suddenly turning round, she cried, with the most taunting of little smiles:
                        'Succès! Succès!'
                    "I looked at her in astonishment; did she so cynically proclaim her triumph!
                        But I found the subject of her exclamation was a small Maltese poodle, who
                        now scrambled into the carriage.
                    "'Having followed her friend into the carriage, the Countess motioned to me
                        to take the seat opposite, and placed the little brute in her lap.
                    "'Poor little Succès,' she said, looking at me while pressing her red lips on
                        its fluffy white head.
                    "'Succès, Succès!'—it echoed mockingly in my ears. But I inwardly set my
                        teeth against the enchantress. I felt sullen as a captive dragged along in
                        an Imperator's triumphal procession.
                    "Madame de G—— was put down at her door, after profuse invitations to me to
                        her town and country house thenceforth and for ever.
                    
                    "'Home,' said the Countess to the bearded chasseur, as he put his head in at
                        the door.
                    "I let myself drift with the tide—which means that I allowed Antonella to
                        carry me off at her will.
                    "Again the huge chasseur stood by the door, and I found myself handing the
                        Countess out of her carriage. We entered the house together, and went into
                        her boudoir.
                    "'Emanuele,' she said, when we were alone, lightly laying her hand on mine,
                        'what makes you look so sad? Why are you so silent? Is it because it's so
                        long since you have been to see me?' and she looked at me languidly and
                        sighed.
                    "For some reason or other the look, the tone, brought vividly before me the
                        hour at Capri when, sitting on the Sirens' rock, she had looked at me with
                        her dark eyes swimming in tears. No other woman's beauty ever thrilled my
                        senses as hers did; but my heart had no longer any part in it.
                    "'It is,' I said slowly, making a strong effort to master my unmanly
                        weakness, for I felt all my 
                            resotion
                            resolution
                         melting again like snow before her glance—'it is, that I am where
                        I am.'
                    "For a minute or two she was, or else affected to be, struck dumb by this
                        sudden new light thrown on my feelings. Indignation seemed contending with
                        another passion—I hardly know what name to give it; then with trembling lips
                        she said: 'You—you—you are——' but suddenly, with a rapid change of tone and
                        manner quite astonishing, she continued mockingly—'a German, Emanuele, a
                        German! And Germans, we know, are not exactly pre-eminent for tact.'
                    
                    "It was bewitchingly coquettish. These swift transitions from one emotion to
                        another were of the highest effect. But I was becoming inured to them, and
                        the enjoyment they afforded me resembled that inspired by a great actress's
                        oft-repeated part.
                    "'Madame la Comtesse speaks truly,' I replied. Politeness is not our forte. The virtue we Germans prize above all
                        others is—faithfulness.'
                    "Antonella simply ignored my answer with most unmistakable tact.
                    "'This dark frown between the eyebrows does not become you, Emanuele,' she
                        said archly, and leaning over to me she passed the tips of her fingers
                        across my forehead. 'Let me smooth out your naughty wrinkles and make you
                        happy, spoilt child that you are; for the Count is gone to a dinner at the
                        "Trois Frères," and will be home late.'
                    "She poured out a glass of iced punch, sipped a few drops and held it to my
                        lips; then putting it down, she began softly humming my Tarantella, and
                        twirling round and round me in that old, swift, fantastic way.
                    "I sat looking at her under a sort of spell. Her eyes were glittering under
                        her dark, heavy hair, her heart palpitating wildly, when suddenly, as though
                        spent with her exertions, she alighted on my knees.
                    "'Maëstro,' she murmured, in the old Capri voice and dialect.
                    "I believe there are certain impressions that stamp themselves on the brain
                        till they become part of its very tissue. This old word spoken in the old
                        voice brought all the old feelings back with a rush like a torrent.
                    
                    "'Oh, Tolla!' I sighed, as she began kissing my hair and my eyes. Suddenly I
                        pushed her far from me, sprang to my feet, and cried with an ungovernable
                        outburst of pent-up disgust, 'Away, away! This must not, shall not go on!
                        Never again will I enter this house to become a party to such treachery and
                        the fool of your caprices. A deceived deceiver! What a position, ye gods!
                        What a depth to have sunk to! What shame to be inflicting and to endure!
                        Rest satisfied with yourself, Madame! You have destroyed all self-respect in
                        me. I hate myself for having loved you! In bitterness I still loved you when
                        you had basely deserted me. It was an unreasoning, despicable love; but it
                        is over, all over now! Save your blandishments for others; they have lost
                        their effect on me. If you must deceive, do so, but with me you shall not!
                        Be content that you have nothing to fear from me, and let me go. I will be
                        silent as the dead about the past; but in the
                            future our paths must cross never again. Let me go.'
                    "I struggled to the door, for she had thrown her arms round me
                        exclaiming—
                    "'No, no! You shall not!'
                    "The demon of vanity that possessed her could not abide, I believe, that any
                        man should defy her fascinations.
                    "'I am your wife, after all,' she said, with rising anger, then getting quite
                        beside herself in her passion when she saw me remaining unmoved. 'You shall
                        not! I will leave the Count—rank—station—the world—all—all—and come with
                        you! You are mine, Emanuele. I will not let you go! I will not let you
                        go!'
                    
                    "'My wife!' I sneered—'my wife, you say! Beware how you let Count Ogotshki
                        hear that.'
                    "'I don't care who hears it,' she panted, in a livid rage. 'I will tell him
                        myself! You shall not defy me!'
                    "'Take care, for God's sake take care!' I said. 'Some one may overhear you.
                        Do you wish to be ruined?'
                    "I saw she was working herself up to such a pitch that she was utterly
                        reckless. She no longer looked the bewitching creature of a few instants
                        before; a demon of vindictiveness seemed to shoot from her eyes; hatred, not
                        love, now glistened there; even her beautiful mouth was deformed by it. I
                        did not know what to do. The only thing was to soothe her, if possible, and
                        get off as quickly as I could.
                    "'Antonella,' I said, 'listen to me, Antonella.'
                    "'I will not let you go! I will not let you go! You are mine, Emanuele!' she
                        reiterated fiercely, seizing me by the hands as though she would retain me
                        by force.
                    "I was perfectly cool, my pulse was calm; henceforth she could never move me
                        again. But I determined to simulate a certain remains of the love that was
                        dead in order to get off for the present. So I turned away from the door as
                        if yielding to her.
                    "'Antonella,' I again said, as tenderly as I could, 'dear Antonella, calm
                        yourself. Is it safe for me to be seen here at this hour, when the Count may
                        surprise us at any moment?'
                    "'The Count! A nullity!' said Antonella, contemptuously.
                    
                    "'Has just had the pleasure of overhearing some words probably not intended
                        for him,' said the grey-headed man, suddenly confronting us, in a veiled,
                        quavering voice, and with a curiously blank look in his eyes.
                    "Antonella stared at him, turned deathly white, and fell back heavily as if
                        she had been shot. Those fits of hers were certainly exceedingly convenient
                        at times. I almost envied her.
                    "'Madame la Comtesse is sometimes scarcely herself,' I remarked coolly,
                        wondering within myself how much the old man had overheard, and what he must
                        think of the scene, if not cognizant of the whole situation. He could hardly
                        regard me in the light of a very ardent lover.
                    "'I know not what you may think,' I continued, seeing he still remained
                        silent; 'but I am ready to give you explanations whenever you may desire
                        it.'
                    "'This is not the moment for explanations,' said the Count, vaguely waving
                        his hand in the direction of the door as he went towards the Countess
                        himself.
                    "'I shall remain in Paris some days longer than was my intention in order
                        that Monsieur le Comte may know where to write to me,' I said, with that
                        controlled utterance which seizes every man by the throat when he finds
                        himself face to face with a deadly quarrel.
                    "Then I left the room without another look at the woman who had blighted my
                        existence.
                    "I waited a whole week, but no letter or message arriving from the Count, I
                        started on my voyage to New York."
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER XXXII.
                    A DIRE DAWNING.
                    "WHAT an incomprehensible woman!" exclaimed Sontheim, shifting restlessly
                        about on his seat. "Did you really break with her for good?"
                    "Oh yes!" said Emanuel, getting up and stretching his arms; "I assure you not
                        doomsday itself could have resuscitated my love."
                    "Did you ever heat anything more about her?" asked the Professor, with a
                        certain anxiety in his tone. "Such a creature is a psychological puzzle; one
                        would like to pursue her career to its close."
                    "Such a creature," said Emanuel, "is a mixture of morbid passion, caprice,
                        and boundless vanity, and what may be its ultimate fate concerns me not at
                        all, I confess."
                    "Ah well," said Sontheim, "your feelings were too deeply involved, of course,
                        to be a dispassionate judge;  but I
                        consider her a very curious problem. An arrested development somewhere, no
                        doubt. The rudimentary conscience of a child, with a woman's full-blown
                        perfections."
                    "You are a lenient judge, Leopold, at any rate where the fair sex are
                        concerned. For my own part I look at it differently. But here comes
                        breakfast. I am famishing, I perceive, and the scent of the coffee ascends
                        gratefully to my nostrils."
                    When the tray had been set down on the table, Emanuel threw himself on the
                        victuals, and began ravenously demolishing everything he could lay his hands
                        on.
                    Leopold, for once, did not develop an appetite equal to that of his friend.
                        His habitual joviality seemed considerably abated.
                    "Well, you must see," cried Emanuel, eagerly, when his hunger was somewhat
                        appeased, "that I am not really a married man—no one ought strictly to
                        consider me as such; perhaps it was not even a legal union, from things that
                        I have heard since. But, morally speaking, there can be no doubt that I am
                        free as air!"
                    "Hm, hm!" said Sontheim, "there's such a thing as imprisoned air!"
                    "What is more," interposed Emanuel, impatiently, "I have good reasons for
                        supposing Antonella dead!"
                    "Ah!" exclaimed the Professor, with an air of relief, "really dead! I wish
                        you would tell me exactly all that you still know or have heard concerning
                        her."
                    "Certainly," replied his friend; "the remainder is quickly told. After about
                        nine months or so I found myself again giving concerts in Paris, during the
                             winter and spring of the present year.
                        There I came across my dear old friend Raoul again. Men of his stamp always
                        worm out everything that is to be known in a place, and a good deal more
                        too. At any rate, I found that a great deal of what I have been telling you
                        was not only no secret to him, but that, on the contrary, he was able to
                        give me a good deal of fresh information regarding the Count and Countess
                        Ogotshki.
                    "The former, it appears, had had a slight stroke of paralysis after the scene
                        of which he had been a partial witness. On his recovery; Antonella impressed
                        her husband with an idea that her own conduct, on that occasion was pure
                        hysteria induced by my music, and that for virtue I was a worthy rival of
                        Joseph of Egypt himself.
                    "However, it seems, in spite of all her subtle arts, the memory of the words
                        he had heard rankled in the old man's mind, and he once or twice reproached
                        her with them.
                    "Whereupon Antonella, incredible as it may sound, informed the Count, in a
                        fit of ungovernable temper, of her previous marriage with me. Then
                        terrified, I suppose, at what she had done, she, as Raoul put it, took the
                        bit in her teeth, and ran off with her diamonds, and her securities and all,
                        leaving the old man, older and more broken down than ever, to take refuge on
                        his estates in Russia.
                    "My friend had these details from the herculean chasseur, who had turned
                        model at this time. But with all his inquisitiveness even Raoul had failed
                        in tracing the Countess's hiding-place. She had completely disappeared."
                    
                    "Completely disappeared!" muttered Sontheim, owning deeply. "Strange,
                        strange!"
                    "Well, nothing that this unaccountable creature could do would ever take me
                        by surprise. But enough of her! Indeed, after the inquiries I have set on
                        foot, I have every reason to think that she must be dead! She was not a
                        woman to give up wealth, station, and all the luxuries of life, for a whim
                        of love or remorse; she would have sought a reconciliation with her husband,
                        and he, like the foolish old man he was, would no doubt have granted it. I
                        think, therefore, that she must be dead; and under the circumstances, I
                        should be a hypocrite if I did not feel it a relief. For if so, I am free
                        once more; my life's incubus is gone, and I may love Mina. I do
                        love Mina! she will be the better angel of my life. Say, what do you think
                        of it, Leopold?"
                    As he uttered these words a sort of boyish radiance lit up his features,
                        different, indeed, from the sombre and impatient expression his countenance
                        had hitherto worn.
                    Sontheim made no reply, but sat looking before him with an air of profound
                        perplexity.
                    After a pause Emanuel said again, with almost pathetic gentleness—
                    "Well, Leopold, you do not seem to give me much encouragement. I know nothing
                        for certain, of course. Are you afraid for your sweet god-child?"
                    Sontheim, however, seemed hardly to hear him. He was now pacing up and down
                        in front of the arbour, looking unusually perturbed.
                    The slatternly servant at this moment came from the  house with a letter in her hand, and gave it to
                        her master.
                    He opened it quickly, perused its contents, and flushed with evident
                        delight.
                    "It is from the Countess," he said after a while to Emanuel, and began
                        reading his letter over again.
                    "The Countess! what Countess?" cried his friend, in a wondering tone.
                    "My Countess, not yours this time!" said Sontheim, with a smirk. "I forgot
                        for the moment that there was another in the world. Look! does she not write
                        a charming letter?" 
                    Emanuel took the letter, looked at it, stared at it, stared at his friend,
                        then looked at the letter again.
                    "This is Antonella's writing," he gasped.
                    Sontheim gave a kind of cry, reeled as a bullock might struck with an axe;
                        then calling out "Oh, oh!" smote the table heavily with his elbows, and with
                        his face hidden by his hands sobbed like a woman.
                    Emanuel had started up and seized his friend by the shoulders. At last the
                        latter looked up with heavy red eyes, and a countenance which showed what
                        havoc these few moments had wrought in him.
                    For a space the two men remained eyeing each other in silence. Of speech
                        there was no further need. What could they say? Nothing. Each felt the
                        impossibility of the situation. The coil that seemed to entwine them equally
                        must be broken asunder somehow.
                    Emanuel, grasping his friend's hands, wrung them violently, and saying, "I am
                        off—you will hear from me," dashed out of the garden.
                
            
            
                
                BOOK III
                
                
                BOOK III.
                
                    CHAPTER XXXIII.
                    THE LOST RING.
                    
                        
                            
                                "Behind the hedge on yonder lea
                                Stands a goodly apple-tree;
                                A finch sits singing on a bough,
                                Singing, sweetly singing—"
                            
                        
                    
                    "MINA, Mina, give over that singing, will you, and come and lend a hand
                        here," cried Frau Lichtenfeld, in shrill tones resounding through the whole
                        length of the garden.
                    She had been toiling in the sweat of her brow ever since three o'clock that
                        morning, it being her quarterly washing-day—a day of dread to the whole
                        household; for if the weather misbehaved itself by any chance, the storm
                        overhead was as nothing to that which raged in the circle of the
                        Lichtenfelds. But the sun was in a glorious humour this bright September  morning, and only playing at hide-and-seek
                        with the clouds, in which it hid itself every now and then to burst forth
                        with a more triumphant splendour.
                    Therefore the Professorinn was bustling about with redoubled activity in a
                        huge apron, tied over her tucked-up skirts; now scolding the servant, who,
                        standing over an enormous tub in the corner, fed by the spout from the roof,
                        was rinsing out the clothes; now pouncing unexpectedly on the hired
                        washerwoman, who ever since yesterday had been at work in boiling, beating,
                        and scrubbing the same.
                    Mina came forward languidly, and began assisting her mother in hanging some
                        of the wet clothes on the lines, while others; half dried, had to make way
                        for them, as the boys tumultuously haled them off in baskets to the
                        bleaching field behind the garden.
                    There they not only dutifully obeyed their mother's behest of spreading them
                        out on the green grass in the sun, but so zealous were they that they fought
                        over one of the sheets, which, disfigured with bootmarks, was at last
                        carried off by the incorrigible Hans, who, waving it like a triumphal flag,
                        came tearing down the garden with it, Otto and Conrad dashing after him like
                        hounds after a hare.
                    "Mother, mother, I didn't do it!" shouted Hans, displaying the sheet before
                        her.
                    "Nor I"—"Nor I," panted Conrad and Otto, simultaneously; for whatever his
                        elder said, the other was sure to repeat like an echo.
                    "Oh, these boys will be the death of me!" cried Frau Lichtenfeld, snatching
                        the sheet from Hans and giving him a sounding box on the ear, which made him
                             take to his heels; and he and Wolf—who
                        had been skulking behind the hedge in order to see how to shape his further
                        course—disappeared for the rest of the day.
                    "What's the matter with the girl—you're as limp as a wet rag?" suddenly cried
                        Frau Lichtenfield in an injured tone, facing round upon Mina. "You're every
                        bit as bad as those boys, only worse; they're merry at least, but you look
                        like a cat in a thunderstorm. Oh, goodness me, there's Lulu at it again; she
                        will kill herself one of these days, I know she will, with eating all the
                        windfalls littering about the grass. Do go, for heaven's sake, girl, and
                        keep her and those two mischievous ne'er-do-weel out of harm's way, while I
                        see to the linen; for you're no more good at it than they are, I declare. I
                        am sick of teaching you!"
                    Mina had already run off to where Lulu, standing up to her knees in the long
                        rank grass under their one apple-tree, was digging her little teeth lustily
                        into a large green apple, and tightly clutching another still bigger one
                        with her disengaged hand. When Mina gently but firmly forced her to yield up
                        her treasures, she set up a loud howl, and it was only after much patient
                        coaxing that the elder sister at last got her and the boys to settle down on
                        the grass under the tree, by a promise to sing their favourite songs. But as
                        each of them immediately clamoured to have his own favourite, Mina now hit
                        upon the device of plucking three blades of grass of differing lengths, and
                        told them that whoever drew the longest should have his choice first, and so
                        on.
                    Otto gained the prize, but as he always went by what his brother said, he was
                        rather puzzled.
                    
                    "Sing, sing!" he said, gleefully; and then stopped short, till Conrad, coming
                        to the rescue, suggested the "Cuckoo song." "The Cuckoo song!" said Otto,
                        quite unabashed, as though it had just occurred to him.
                    Mina, in a low, sweet voice that had an indefinably plaintive ring, began
                        singing— 
                            
                                "The cuckoo flies to the green grass,
                                Cuckoo, cuckoo!
                                And when it rains he's wet, alas,
                                Cuckoo, cuckoo!
                            
                            
                                The cuckoo has two golden feet,
                                Cuckoo, cuckoo!
                                That's why forbidden love's so sweet,
                                Cuckoo, cuckoo!
                            
                            
                                The cuckoo flies to the dark grove,
                                Cuckoo, cuckoo!
                                Why art so proud to-day, my love?
                                Cuckoo, cuckoo!
                            
                            
                                The cuckoo through thy window flies,
                                Cuckoo, cuckoo!
                                Oh love, take pity on my sighs,
                                Let me come too!"
                            
                        
                    They formed a picture which, for grouping, colour, and background, was ready
                        composed to an artist's hand. Mina, in a pink-and-white cotton gown, with
                        her curly head slightly thrown back, and soft young face a little paler than
                        its wont, was leaning back against the crabbed trunk of the old apple-tree—a
                        low, forked branch of which formed her seat—with her hands idly crossed in
                        her lap and a wistful, far-off look  in her
                        clear brown eyes. Lulu, resting against her sister's knee, was looking
                        intently up in her face, blue-eyed and open-mouthed, trying to follow the
                        song with her babyish tones. The red-cheeked Otto, stretched full-length on
                        the grass, with his chin propped by his two hands and his legs kicking the
                        air behind him, listened in placid enjoyment to the song of his choice;
                        while Conrad, sitting cross-legged like a tailor, divided his attention
                        between whistling an accompaniment, and making a ladder of reeds for his
                        beloved frog, which he kept by way of barometer.
                    Mina had no sooner done, than Conrad, whose turn it was, shouted, "I want the
                        song about the nun, Mimi."
                    "What nun?" asked Mina.
                    "Oh, you know, you know—the one who won't drink the red wine," said Conrad,
                        eagerly.
                    "The one who won't drink the red wine," echoed Otto.
                    "But that's such a long one," said Mina; "you'll get tired of it before I've
                        done."
                    "No, no," cried they all three; "begin, do begin!"
                    And Mina began half singing, half reciting that quaint old ballad— 
                            
                                "I stood high on the mountains,
                                The vale lay deep below,
                                A little boat came gliding,
                                Wherein three earls I saw.
                            
                            
                                And of these three, the youngest
                                That therein did recline,
                                He bade me drink, and gave me once
                                A goblet of red wine.
                            
                            
                            
                                'O say why wouldst thou have me drink
                                Red wine from out thy glass?
                                Thou art a mighty earl, and I
                                Am but a lonely lass.
                            
                            
                                And though I am not rich, forsooth,
                                I hold mine honour dear,
                                And I will guard it till one come
                                Who is mine equal here.'
                            
                            
                                What drew he from his finger then?
                                A little golden ring;
                                "Let this to thee our token be
                                Thou sweet, thou bonnie thing!'
                            
                            
                                'What should I with this ring?—a lord
                                Ne'er weds with a poor lass!'
                                'O say that thou hast found it
                                Lost in the long green grass.
                            
                            
                                And art thou a poor maiden,
                                Hast neither goods nor gear;
                                Bethink thee of the true love
                                That is between us, dear.'
                            
                            
                                'Nought know I of any true love,
                                Nor yet of any man——"
                            
                        
                    "Now, Lulu, you must listen; she's going to be a nun, and he's going to ride
                        all over the world to find her," cried Conrad, who wished the superior
                        merits of his own particular poem to be appreciated.
                    "The world is round!" put in Otto; tentatively. "And is he going to ride all
                        round it, Mimi?"
                    "How round is it?" lisped Lulu.
                    "As round as your eyes," said Conrad, impatiently; "can't you wait till
                        Mina's done before you begin chattering, you little chatterbox?"
                    
                    "Is't as round as this apple, Mina?" asked Otto, thinking this a fair
                        opportunity to pounce on one of the forbidden fruit, and holding it in
                        rather closer proximity to his mouth than was necessary for purposes of
                        demonstration.
                    "Well, it's something that shape," said Mina, "but more flattened at the
                        poles; and it's green, too, mostly with the fields and forests——"
                    "Oh, that isn't fair; that's like a geography lesson," said Conrad,
                        discontentedly, "and other's given us a holiday."
                    "Very well," said Mina, gently, "I'll go on, Conrad; but I've forgotten where
                        I left off."
                    "Where she's going to be a nun, you know!" cried Conrad.
                    "What is a nun?" put in the irrepressible Lulu.
                    "Be quiet, Lulu, and you will hear; your turn will come next. Do go on, Mina;
                        we shall never get to the end."
                    
                        
                            
                                "'Nought know I of any true love,
                                Nor yet of any man;
                                I'll go into a cloister,
                                And there become a nun.'
                            
                            
                                'And goest thou to a cloister,
                                There to become a nun,
                                I'll fare the wide world over,
                                Until to thee I come.'
                            
                            
                                And scarce three months were over,
                                The earl's stout heart did quail—
                                He dreamed that his own sweetheart,
                                His love, had ta'en the veil
                            
                            
                            
                                Then spake he to his squire,
                                'Up, up, to horse and away!
                                We'll fare throughout the wide world,
                                There's much to see by the way.'
                            
                            
                                And when he to the cloister came,
                                So softly did he sing:
                                'Give me the youngest of the nuns,
                                The one you last let in!'
                            
                            
                                'No nun has been let in of late,
                                Nor out may any fare.'
                                'Then I will set your house on fire,
                                The Lord's fair house of prayer.'
                            
                            
                                Then forth she stepped towards him,
                                Clad in a snow-white gown—
                                They had cut off her long hair,
                                She was become a nun.
                            
                            
                                She bade the earl be welcome,
                                All in the strange countree:
                                'Who asked ye to come hither?
                                Who hath sent ye unto me?'
                            
                            
                                The earl felt sore ashamed;
                                Her speech aggrieved his soul,
                                Till many hot tears gathered,
                                And down his cheeks did roll.
                            
                            
                                She bade him drink, and offered him
                                Red wine out of a glass;
                                The glass it burst asunder,
                                And his heart it broke, alas!
                            
                            
                                With her sweet lips like harpsichords,
                                She tolled the funeral bell;
                                And from her nut-brown eyes the tears
                                The holy water fell."
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    "Mina, Mina, you're like the nun—why two tears are running down your cheeks,
                        and your eyes are brown too!" cried Conrad, excitedly.
                    Mina gave a start as though suddenly recalled to herself and surroundings.
                        Six clear young eyes were peering inquisitively into her face. She hastily
                        brushed her hand across her burning cheeks and smiled; but the smile was a
                        sorrier sight than the tears had been.
                    Where then had her thoughts been while her lips were repeating that queer but
                        touching old ballad? Like the maiden in the song, she felt poor and
                        forsaken, while he was a great and mighty man who had the whole
                        world at his feet. Where was he now? So near he had seemed who was now so
                        far! She knew not even what country he now abode in, but felt she would have
                        gone the wide world over, in sooth, only to see his face once more; and then
                        she felt ashamed of the idea, and wondered whether she too might not enter a
                        convent. People still went into cloisters, and why not she? But would she be
                        able to pray all day as people did when they became nuns? and she raised her
                        eyes to the sky.
                    There across the blue, blue sky the clouds, like shining puffed-out sails,
                        went merrily drifting before the wind; and as she looked up her whole soul
                        seemed to go out in the longing to be up and away—get away from this dull,
                        monotonous round which all at once seemed to stifle her. It seemed to her
                        that if she could only go on, on, on, always on, that this strange new
                        something—pain was it, or what? she hardly knew—would leave off hurting so.
                        But to stay there, to see the same things continually, things she had once
                        loved—these trees that were like old playfellows, these hills  that knew her most secret thoughts, this brook
                        that had sung to her ever since she could remember, it was somehow as though
                        she must hide from them, as though they must know how estranged she had
                        become from all and everything here. Ah! if her beautiful friend the
                        Countess were only still here, Mina thought, she would understand, and
                        perhaps—perhaps—(her heart beat fast at the thought)—perhaps find out where
                            he now was in the world, and what he was doing; for that
                        was all she really wanted, of course. But, then, where was her friend? She
                        did not know that either. Was that the way of the world, then—that people
                        crossed your path who spoke and looked as though they held you dear as the
                        very apple of their eye, and then passed out of sight again and became mere
                        phantoms? Mina's sweet lips quivered and her head drooped low at the
                        thought.
                    Yes, she had only once heard from the Countess since her departure, and that
                        was very, very long ago now. To Mina, who was still half a child at heart, a
                        year seemed something interminably long, and the Countess had already been
                        gone half that time. It is true that so many new emotions had crowded in
                        upon Mina of late that the image of her friend had been pushed into the
                        background; but not forgotten—it was not in her nature to forget. In her
                        little chamber under the roof she had stored away hidden treasures that
                        other people would have thrown away as rubbish. All sorts of things that she
                        had cared for once upon a time were religiously preserved there. Here she
                        kept an old pair of list slippers, very shabby, very much down at heels; but
                        that somehow, together with a long pipe that  she had managed to regain, reminded her more than anything else of her
                        father as he lived and moved among them; here, laid between two pressed
                        vine-leaves, was a yellow, wavy lock of Elfrida's hair; and a worm-eaten
                        framed sampler worked by her grandmother in her youth, hung with other
                        similar trifles amidst the ivy leaves.
                    "Oh, Mina, Mina!" cried Lulu, who had been running about during the last few
                        minutes, picking dandelion puffs; "Mina, I've found the ring in the grass!"
                        and she came bounding towards her sister, holding something in her little
                        fat fingers that seemed to emit sparks and flashes of light as she ran.
                    Mina started to her feet. The boys gathered round, crying in a sceptical
                        tone, "A ring, Lulu?"
                    But when Conrad fairly caught sight of the thing, he said in rather an
                        awestruck tone, "Why it's the earl's ring!" "The earl's ring!" repeated
                        Otto, and was going to snatch it, but that Mina put him gently aside, saying
                        in a coaxing voice, "Lulu will give it to sister, won't she?"
                    Lulu did not seem at all sure of that, however. She resolutely kept hold of
                        the ring, saying, "Lulu's ring now she found it."
                    "But I will give you two great big rings of real gingerbread for this which
                        you can't eat," said Mina.
                    Lulu pricked up her ears at this. The temptation was great. This ring could
                        clearly not be eaten, she saw, as she inspected it with her head on one side
                        considering the offer.
                    "'Tis only gold, Mina," she said; "I like gingerbread best! And she gave her
                        sister the ring, who took it  wondering How
                        could it have come there? To whom did it belong? And as she asked herself
                        the question her thoughts at once reverted to the magnificent woman of whom
                        all things bright, costly, and beautiful, had seemed but an appendage.
                    "Fräulein Mina, here's a letter for you from foreign parts, here is," cried
                        the servant, holding a thin, blue-looking one with a large black seal in her
                        sodden hands.
                    Mina's heart fairly seemed to leap in her bosom and then to be dead still.
                        She turned red, and then white as chalk, and her hand trembled so she could
                        hardly reach it out for the letter.
                    "Mina's sick!" cried Conrad. "Perhaps it's a witch's ring, Mina, and will
                        make you die as Schneewittchen does, you
                        know. I'll go and tell mother of it."
                    "Foolish boy!" said Mina, making a strong effort to recover her usual manner,
                        and smiling at him; "I'm quite well, and if you'll go and play quietly by
                        the hedge there till dinner-time, you shall have rings of gingerbread all
                        three to-morrow."
                    They skipped off joyously, and Mina was at last left alone with her letter.
                        But she had to steady herself against the trunk of the tree; she seemed to
                        have grown so weak all of a sudden. When she was sufficiently recovered to
                        look steadily at the handwriting, a curious change took place in her manner.
                        She seemed to be both relieved and disappointed, pleased and sorry, as she
                        carefully undid the letter. Glancing hastily over its contents, she
                        murmured, "How foolish I was to think she had forgotten me, and she in such
                        trouble, nursing her dying husband. Oh how sorry I am! If I could only go to
                        her and  comfort her a little, now that she
                        is in such grief, my poor beautiful friend! Perhaps she will come back again
                        by and by, but she doesn't say so. At any rate I can send back this ring,
                        now that I know her address. I am sure it must be hers, and I will tell
                        her——"
                    "Mina, Mina, the dinner's ready and mother's angry!" shouted the children, as
                        they tore down the garden path towards the house, followed by their sister,
                        who, by way of keeping it safe for the present, put the ring on her
                        finger.
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER XXXIV.
                    REJECTED AND ACCEPTED.
                    "WELL, child, if you feel that you'll be better at home, you may stay," said
                        Frau Lichtenfeld, in a gentler voice than usual, as she arranged a pillow
                        for Mina on the hard damask sofa (a luxury she would have sternly reprobated
                        on ordinary occasions), "for I will say you do look quite poorly to-day, and
                        so I must tell our good Frau Obertribunalprocurator, for she will be sadly
                        disappointed at your not coming—such a favourite as you are of hers. But
                        still, I will say, though you don't look yourself, and had better go to
                        sleep this afternoon, that I disapprove of these moping ways, these hangings
                        of the head, this drooping and languishing just like a doll with half the
                        sawdust dropped out of her. There's ways and ways, as I've told you
                        over and over again, Mina, and though you do what you're bid, you do it in a
                        contrary spirit; and I believe, I do, that it's all wilfulness makes you get
                        so white and thin of late—  wilfulness and
                        that way you have of sitting up of nights (I know your tricks), star-gazing
                        or what not, for I take good care you have no more candle to waste than is
                        enough to undress by."
                    Frau Lichtenfeld had by this time worked herself up to such a pitch that her
                        voice had risen to its normal shrillness again as she continued in aggrieved
                        tones: "And as I was saying only yesterday to Frau Scherer at the
                        marketing—and a better market-woman than myself that worthy lady said she
                        would take her oath upon never yet drew breath, for my whole winter's supply
                        of cabbages for pickling and preserving just cost me—what do you think now?
                        But I forget, you care about the price of cabbages no more than the babe
                        unborn, though what you are to do when you have a house of your own and lots
                        of children, with little money and less discretion, is quite past
                            my comprehension. All I know is, when it's too late you'll
                        begin to think of your poor mother's words—Elise Lichtenfeld 'geborene'
                        Duttenhofer, late widow of the highly respected, universally lamented,
                        Professor Lichtenfeld, as good a wife, mother, and Hausfrau as it ever pleased God to remove from the bosom of a
                        bereaved family—which I hope may be put on my tombstone, for I like things
                        done decently, though without extravagance. But as I was saying—yes, let me
                        see, as I was saying to Frau Scherer, not enough that a poor widow like me
                        has six children to look after and settle in life; but you, the eldest, must
                        now take to ailing and pale cheeks (just when everybody, too, had taken to
                        praising the fine colour you had), as if I didn't provide you with plenty of
                        wholesome food and wholesome advice  into
                        the bargain. Ah, if only my father, the Medicinalrath (peace be with his
                        memory), had not been removed to a better world, he would have set you to
                        rights whether you liked it or not; and now that I think of it, he would no
                        doubt have prescribed your rising at five every morning and walking to
                        Mülhheim's Farm to drink molken. That's what you'd better do—though perhaps
                        it's rather too late in the year. Well, we'll see; I'll ask the Frau
                        Obertribunalprocurator's advice. Why, dear me, child, if that isn't four
                        o'clock striking; but that's always the way—you will keep me talking, Mina,
                        just when you know I ought to be going out."
                    With this final home-thrust the Frau Professorinn wound up her eloquent
                        monologue one afternoon about a fortnight since the finding of the opal ring
                        had thrown the whole family Lichtenfeld into a state of wild commotion. This
                        had only been allayed when, after much anxious consultation and precautions
                        innumerable, it had been despatched to the Countess, together with a letter
                        from Mina in answer to the one recently received by her.
                    Poor Mina, who had patiently waited till the irresistible flow of words
                        should have spent itself, nevertheless expressed her concern at the delay
                        she had occasioned her mother, who, kissing her brow, bade her, with renewed
                        gentleness of tone, get a little colour in her cheeks by her return, and
                        then went off hunting for Lulu, who had spent a happy half-hour peering and
                        prying into all the pots and pans in the kitchen.
                    It was a wild, cloudy afternoon on which Mina was thus left alone, and in her
                        honour a fire had been lit for the first time in the huge white porcelain
                        stove  which occupied a large part of one
                        side of the room, and where, if the flames Were unseen, you could now hear
                        them crackling and sputtering amidst the damp wood.
                    It was unusually quiet in the house, and yet Mina could not go to sleep, but
                        lay restlessly twisting and tossing about, when a knock at the door made her
                        suddenly start to her feet. Before she had even time to smooth her ruffled
                        hair a little, Sabina, with a broad grin, announced Lieutenant Knapp, who,
                        in his smart blue uniform with white facings, halted midway in the room—as
                        though waiting for the word of command—and looked the picture of blushing
                        misery, as he stammered something about "Very sorry—Frau Professorinn—hoped
                        to have the felicity——" and then collapsed entirely; and for all that he was
                        a soldier, looked uncommonly as though he would like to turn tail and beat a
                        retreat.
                    "What could he want with her?" thought the astonished Mina, as, taking pity
                        on his evident embarrassment, she begged him to be seated. And then, as he
                        persistently went on getting redder and redder in the face, and did not
                        hazard a single remark, while his eyes seemed rooted to the floor, she
                        kindly asked after his family with a view to putting him at his ease.
                    The poor lieutenant, who was afflicted with a slight stutter when anything
                        made him nervous, now said something in rather disjointed fashion about
                        having come to invite her mother and herself and the rest of the family to
                        the vintage festivities that were to be held at his aunt's vineyard that day
                        week, when a grand display of fireworks and a dance were to wind up the
                        proceedings.
                    
                    While enumerating these manifold attractions the the young man—in his
                        eagerness to put everything in the rosiest light—gradually regained some
                        portion of his soldierly self-possession, and at last, ending with quite a
                        flourish, he ventured to raise his round, rather prominent blue eyes to
                        Mina's face, as he expressed a hope that she would grace the festival with
                        her presence.
                    But Mina, who felt in no mood for any gaieties whatever, replied that she
                        could of course make no engagements in her mother's absence.
                    "Oh, my dear Fräulein Mina, I hope you will persuade your honoured Frau Mamma
                        to come to us," cried the lieutenant, who, now that he had once faced the
                        enemy, was losing his nervousness. "Indeed, I will call again myself and
                        convince her that we cannot possibly do without you, Fräulein Mina—indeed we
                        cannot! Why, it would go off as flat as—as—champagne without the foam to it,
                        if we were to miss your clear laugh and——" He was going to say "your bright
                        eyes," but the idea of daring to speak of her eyes to her so overcame him
                        that he felt a sensation like pins and needles all over him; and when he
                        further reflected that here was his chance now—the chance he had so often
                        and so ardently desired, it was like being rubbed over with pepper into the
                        bargain.
                    For although possibly—as the German song has it—neither fire nor coals burn
                        half as fiercely as secret love of which no one knows aught, yet what was
                        that in comparison to boldly facing the fire in the shape of a maiden
                        sitting before one with two clear, shining eyes, the look of which went
                        straight to a fellow's heart somehow!
                    
                    And so his secret popped out of him, just as a gun will go off when a man's
                        hand shakes a bit in its handling. Something in the droop of the rosebud
                        mouth did it before he well knew what he was about. He had risen to his feet
                        now, and was standing in front of her, his left hand nervously fumbling with
                        the sword handle. There was no mistaking his honest, manly tones as he told
                        the love he had long felt for her in secret, and offering her his hand and
                        heart asked beseechingly if she could love him a little, ever so little, in
                        return.
                    Mina was as startled as if a loaded gun had indeed gone off close to her ear.
                        She said piteously: "No, no, pray don't! I can't help it, indeed I can't—but
                        I don't——" and she looked as wretched as if he had taxed her with some
                        dreadful crime in declaring his love for her.
                    "But will you not think of it a little while before you answer me?" pleaded
                        the poor lover. "You are still so young, Fräulein Mina; I have startled you,
                        like a fool, with my brusque proposal. Take time, take time—only say,"
                        continued he, emphasizing the only, "you will take time to consider it."
                    Mina shook her head sorrowfully, but only too decisively, and holding out her
                        hand to her rejected suitor, said, in a voice as if she were trying to
                        exculpate herself: "I am so sorry—so sorry. What can I ever have done to
                        make you care for me, Lieutenant Knapp; but forgive me if I have, for I—I
                        cannot——" and although the word "love you" stuck in her throat, there could
                        be no mistaking the distinct meaning her tone conveyed this time.
                    The young lieutenant, looking at her yearningly, said:  "Tell me, tell me, is there some one else more
                        fortunate whom I can never hope to take the place of?"
                    Mina, startled at the question, coloured violently, and made some gesture of
                        denial; but though she seemed to be saying something, her voice now was so
                        faint that it was impossible for her suitor to guess at her meaning.
                        Although this could scarcely be called an answer, even the leaden-witted
                        young lieutenant comprehended with a lover's intuitive perception that there
                        was some insuperable obstacle in the girl's mind to the realization of his
                        dearest wish; and turning very white, he seemed to be trying to swallow
                        something which his military stock prevented from going down. Then pressing
                        Mina's hand with an air of the most submissive respect, he merely added,
                        "Ah, please don't grieve for me," and went off like a criminal just
                        sentenced.
                    Mina, when she heard the outer door shut, burst into tears. She did not at
                        all plume herself on her conquest, or feel any of that glow of satisfied
                        vanity so natural to the feminine breast. What troubled her was the idea
                        that she might, and yet she knew not how, be in some way responsible for his
                        having fallen in love with her; and then, as she pictured to herself this
                        man's hopes and dreams all shattered in an instant like a child's house of
                        cards, she felt a subtle pang, perhaps not entirely due to sympathy with
                            his disappointment.
                    By and by she dried her eyes and walked to the window, which was at the back
                        looking on to the garden, and pressed her forehead against the cold panes of
                        glass, as though it were hot and aching. As she moved across the room she
                        seemed to have grown taller within these last few months; her very eyes
                        seemed to  have increased in size, that
                        being due to her face having grown so much thinner and paler than it used to
                        be; its expression too had greatly altered.
                    She stood there for a long time, with a strained yearning in her eyes,
                        looking out towards the dim horizon. The autumnal wind, fitfully rising and
                        ebbing amongst the many-folded windings of the hills—moaned now far off with
                        sounds as piteous as the bleating of strayed lambs, then again with howls as
                        of a pack of wolves—went rushing across country, smiting the fruit-tree tops
                        till their lashed and tossing branches seemed to yell again. Mina, in a
                        half-conscious sort of way, felt an answering thrill to these forlorn,
                        plaintive sounds, though scarcely distinctly realizing what was passing in
                        the depths of her pure, yet passionate nature.
                    A look—a tone—a kindling smile—a broken sentence or two—a pressure of the
                        hand—things transitory as the tints of a sunset that glorify the heavens and
                        then vanish as though they had never been! Ephemeral nothings if you try to
                        fix them in language, but which by anticipation, may constitute a universe
                        of subtle joy, or throw a whole innocent existence into confusion and
                        entanglement.
                    Mina, in a wistful kind of abstraction, stood watching the yellow and
                        rust-coloured leaves, scampering in all directions whenever a windy gust,
                        flapping down among the creaking boughs, stripped them and rocked them to
                        and fro. Myriads of leaves, as if endowed with a ghostly life of their own,
                        went fluttering from their stems, soaring away high and yet higher, and
                        circled in the currents of upper air, till they abruptly dropped with a dry,
                        sepulchral sound, and lay on the discoloured  grass in melancholy heaps and patches, like blighted hopes and joys
                        turned to pain.
                    What! were her hopes and joys already withered ere youth itself was gone? Or
                        what meant that clinging sense of desolation and loss—that something that
                        had taken the joy out of her joys, and planted a sting there instead—so that
                        she never felt glad in the morning that a new day had begun; but did what
                        she had to do in a spiritless, perfunctory fashion, wishing all the while
                        for night and sleep.
                    All at once, as she stood there alone and comfortless—looking out on this
                        drear, autumnal scene, her heart gave a great bound and then seemed to cease
                        beating. Whose was the step, that footstep with the music in it, that had
                        struck on her ear? Fool that she was, she could scarcely bear to turn round
                        for fear of destroying this illusion. Very slowly, almost like one afraid,
                        she turned her head just a little.
                    No, it was no illusion! It was he indeed who had just entered
                        the room; and what a contrast to the awkward, stuttering, florid-looking
                        young lieutenant who had stood on almost the identical spot scarcely an hour
                        ago, was this tall, self-possessed man, with the spiritual yet piercing
                        glance, the sensitive, expressive hands, and that undefinable enchantment of
                        look and manner sometimes an attribute of genius.
                    For a moment Emanuel lingered on the threshold, then impulsively stretching
                        out both his arms, he strode towards her—for she seemed rooted to the spot;
                        and while his pale, keen features were suffused and kindling with delight,
                        he sighed rather than said, "My child, my sweet child," as he gently took
                        her hands in his.
                    
                    Mina for the moment had lost all power of speech. Instinctively she recoiled
                        a step or two, and tried to disengage her hands. There was something scared,
                        almost frightened, in her expression, as of a stag at bay. For the
                        tumultuous throbbing of her heart at sight of this man, who disappeared,
                        reappeared, and might disappear again ignis
                            fatuus like, flashed on her the full truth of her utterly
                        helpless love so forcibly, that she, poor child, could almost have gasped
                        for breath, like an inexperienced swimmer who, for the first time out of his
                        depth, feels that he must now float or sink irretrievably.
                    This scared look, this altered expression of her pale face, the imperceptible
                        shrinking when he had seized her hands in his, did not escape Emanuel, who
                        felt a cold shudder run through him as he thought that she might have heard
                        all. But no, it could not be that Sontheim had been false to his word, and
                        betrayed his secret.
                    He looked at her silently, with a yearning tenderness that Mina felt even to
                        the tips of her fingers; then he said very, very softly, "Mina! ah, do you
                        know, do you guess how I love you, Mina?"
                    Then pressing her hands against his breast, he continued in a more and more
                        eager and impassioned voice, "Do you know that I have loved you since the
                        day I saw you in the wood, with those dear hands outstretched as in
                        supplication. Yes, Mina, dearest girl, I shall always associate you in my
                        thoughts with that delicious day in April, full of the blossoming of flowers
                        and the singing of birds, when, after many years of wandering, I revisited
                        my birthplace, and found there what I seemed to have searched for in vain
                        throughout the  world. Ah, beloved! since
                        that day you have never been absent from my heart. Say, say, why do you look
                        so wistfully at me?" cried he, as with anxious fondness he gazed down into
                        her limpid eyes, where tears and smiles seemed contending for mastery. "Many
                        times the avowal of my love for you trembled on my lips, but—but——" He broke
                        off abruptly, and after a pause almost humbly continued, "Ah, you do not
                        know yourself as I know you; you do not know in your innocence what a jewel
                        beyond price is a heart like yours; but I, Mina, I who know, feel like a
                        thief almost in that I seek it! Yet without it, without you, this world,
                        with all it can give of praise and pleasure, and fame and fortune, is but as
                        a barren waste and a wilderness of thorns to me. Oh, I was so old, my child,
                        old, and sick, and weary, till your sacred youth renewed my spirit as with
                        the very dew of dawn. Yes, when I looked into your sunny eyes all the evil
                        spirits by which I was once possessed seemed to be exorcised. You have given
                        me a new life, a life that shall be devoted to your service, if you will let
                        me. But oh, speak, tell me my sweet joy, do you love me a little too? Will
                        you be mine, my very own, my dear love, my wife, Mina?"
                    Was it not well to have suffered those pangs of heartsickness, that aching
                        void, to be thus warmed and penetrated through and through with such deep,
                        sweet, unutterable bliss! Mina could make no answer; weeping for joy, she
                        fell upon his breast and hid her glowing face there. And when she gently
                        freed herself from his arms, they stood almost breathless, holding each
                        other's hands, and looked at each other, minutes, hours, ages, it might have
                        been—for the heart dates by emotions, not years.
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER XXXV.
                    FRAU LICHTENFELD ON MATRIMONY.
                    THAT was a proud day for Frau Professorinn Lichtenfeld when, arrayed in her
                        brown brocade and best bonnet, she paid a series of informal calls on every
                        neighbour, gossip, and acquaintance, that lived at all within walking
                        distance, to inform them first in a loud whisper—as if imparting a state
                        secret, of the engagement of her daughter Mina to the great virtuoso,
                        Emanuel Sturm; and immediately afterwards, without further reticence or
                        mystery whatever, giving a long history of every minutest occurrence that
                        had led thereto from the very beginning of the acquaintanceship. Nor did she
                        fail on any of these occasions to wind up her account with a description of
                        this great man carrying Lulu home pick-a-back fashion, the first day that
                        she had ever set eyes on him; and how from that minute she had foreseen the
                        whole case, and what would come to pass, as clearly as if she had been a
                        born fortune-teller.
                    
                    These private and particular confidences in the ears of some dozen or so of
                        women, were, indeed, the sole outlet for the good woman's bursting
                        sensations on this occasion. For say what she would she found her future
                        son-in-law sternly opposed to the German custom of a betrothal ceremony, to
                        which relatives and friends are officially invited, and liberally supplied
                        with wine and every description of fancy-cake.
                    When Mina's mother proposed the performance of this rite to Emanuel, on the
                        first occasion of his dining there en
                            famille after his engagement, he fairly jumped off his seat,
                        and cried with whimsical horror—
                    "No, no, my dear, kind, good lady, ask anything in the world of me for the
                        gift of such a daughter, but not that—that would drive me distracted!" Then
                        turning to Mina, with an infusion of sly mischief in his tone, he said:
                        "Unless, indeed, my lady fair should expressly state that such were her
                        gracious wishes and commands: for should I not have to let myself be flayed
                        alive if she so ordered it?"
                    Mina blushed—she had a terrible trick of blushing, especially when as now so
                        many pairs of inquisitive eyes were all fixed on her; the very servant even,
                        as she cleared away the soup-tureen and put the hot roast goose, stuffed
                        with chesnuts, on the table, giving her a wink on the sly, as much as to say
                        that she knew all about it, bless her heart. Luckily for her
                        self-possession, the carving of that succulent bird just then began to
                        engross all Frau Lichtenfeld's attention; and the boys, too, while intently
                        watching that cunning operation, were for the moment diverted from their
                        efforts at fathoming in what the manners and customs of an  engaged sister differed from one not engaged.
                        Indeed, Wolfgang seemed to expect some outward visible transformation to
                        take place in a person under such circumstances, and to be eagerly on the
                        watch for it. But at any rate, Mina, relieved for the moment from so much
                        oppressive attention, ventured to look at Emanuel as she replied in so low a
                        voice that it escaped her mother's notice—
                    "Indeed, I would so much rather not have any one invited—it makes me tremble
                        to think of it. But you. will come with me to grandmother's very soon, won't
                        you? I want so much to tell her myself, and you to be there too, for I know
                        how fond she is of you. Often and often has she talked to me about you, and
                        the strange things you said and did as a boy, when I never thought that——"
                        but here she faltered in embarrassment, for although she could talk fluently
                        enough when at her ease, her position was still so new, so overwhelmingly
                        new, happy and wonderful, that it was only when left alone with her lover
                        that she occasionally became her genuine self, and forgetting her shyness,
                        broke into spontaneous confidences, affording sudden glimpses into her
                        exquisite nature.
                    Presently all that remained of the substantial goose—which for some weeks
                        past had been assiduously fed and fattened by Frau Lichtenfeld's own
                        hands—was a little heap of picked and polished bones; and these being
                        removed made way for a smoking pile of "Dampfnudeln" and stewed pears, which
                        elicited a simultaneous "Oh" of admiration from Lulu and Otto. For the good
                        widow, although a strict economist, was by no means miserly, but prided
                        herself on the excellence of  her
                        fare—superintended and often prepared by her own hands—especially when as
                        now she entertained a guest at her table. After having liberally helped
                        every one all round, and aimed a sly dart at her eldest daughter to the
                        effect that, for her part, she did not see why people should slight good
                        victuals, when they had only the trouble to lift the knife and fork to their
                        lips and swallow them, she once more began her attack on her future
                        son-in-law: first of all, however, complimenting him on his splendid
                        appetite, which she averred she had seldom seen equalled—she having three
                        times helped him to goose.
                    "Why, such fare as you have placed before me," said Emanuel, laughingly,
                        "would make a dying man's mouth water; and you have just hit on one of my
                        favourite dishes, too. The goose is a glorious bird, and I think,
                        considering its manifold services to mankind—from saving the Capitol, to
                        furnishing him with the means of immortality—he deserves to have his praises
                        chanted as well as any nightingale or lark amongst them. For the matter of
                        that, dear Frau Lichtenfeld, I must really, after partaking of this goose of
                        yours, exhale my satisfaction in a Rondo or Caprice, or something of that
                        sort."
                    The widow, highly gratified with the compliment to her cookery, now suggested
                        that something neat in the way of cards should at once be printed and sent
                        to their acquaintances, by way of informing them of the engagement. But to
                        this Emanuel showed himself equally averse; indeed, if he could he would
                        have kept his engagement a family secret till the wedding-day itself, but
                        with such a tongue as Frau Lichtenfeld's that was  a simple impossibility. And he had to submit with
                        such stoicism as he could muster to the infliction of furnishing for the
                        present the most exciting topic of conversation to the inhabitants of the
                        town.
                    However, Frau Lichtenfeld found some compensation in reflecting that the
                        wedding-day had been fixed for some day before the close of the old year;
                        and the delicious preoccupation with Mina's outfit, from the ribbons of her
                        best Sunday bonnet, to the buckles on her house-shoes, threw all
                        less-engrossing subjects of consideration into the background. Even her
                        daughter's somewhat lukewarm interest in a matter so weighty as the trimming
                        of her black silk dress with gimp, or frills of its own material, did not
                        damp her enthusiasm. With a huge bunch of keys jingling at her side, and
                        Lulu as usual hanging on to her apron-strings, she stood one morning before
                        the old worm-eaten walnut press on the landing—a solid piece of furniture,
                        and her particular pride, as having been in the family of the Duttenhofers
                        long before the Lichtenfelds had probably either a local habitation or a
                        name. This press (not devoid of a certain mustiness of smell, as became a
                        very venerable piece of furniture) she now unlocked, and as she pulled out
                        shelf after shelf, the goodly stores of sheets, towels, table-cloths,
                        napkins, and underclothing of every description, seemed to indicate an
                        unexpected degree of wealth.
                    For Frau Lichtenfeld's weak side—the one extravagance which she secretly
                        indulged in—was to have a great store of fine linen, enough to last the
                        whole family for a good three months at least without so much as the need of
                        a pocket handkerchief having to be washed. Here now were a dozen chemises,
                        tied together with  a narrow pink silk
                        ribbon, which she had put by for Mina's trousseau when the latter was still
                        toddling about in short frocks. But her chief subject of pride were half a
                        dozen batiste handkerchiefs—now of a deep
                        yellow tone from age—with a delicate embroidery of flowers for a border,
                        which she had had for her own outfit, but always shirked using as being
                        altogether too exquisite in texture for her station in life.
                    As she fingered them now, however, she was revolving in her mind whether they
                        would not be the very thing for the wife of such a very great musician—one
                        who was actually going to a reception at the Grand Duke's, and seemed
                        hail-brother-well-met with his highness's whole family. Yes, that thought
                        decided her, and she took the handkerchiefs but of their covering of soft
                        tissue paper, resolving, not without some natural regrets, to pick out her
                        own initials and substitute her daughter's instead.
                    While thus busily overhauling her treasures of linen, the door of the landing
                        opened with a ring, and Frau Scherer and Fräulein von Griesbach—burning for
                        further details of everything concerning the grand match her daughter was
                        about to make—came unannounced on Frau Lichtenfeld.
                    "Ah, my dear Frau Professorinn," cried Frau Scherer, looking admiringly at
                        the well-filled press, "we can imagine why you are pulling out this goodly
                        store of linen! And pray where is your sweet child—I am dying to
                        congratulate her and to see how the 'brautstand' becomes her."
                    "Yes," Fräulein von Griesbach chimed in, "I confess to a little curiosity on
                        that point myself, though I am  not given
                        to curiosity as a rule; but indeed it seems but yesterday, honoured Frau
                        Professorinn—does it not?—that our Mina might almost have been considered as
                        somewhat of a hoyden—if I might venture to say so—hardly quite mature, quite
                        discreet enough, for the serious responsibilities involved by married
                        life."
                    "Ah, my dear high-born Fräulein, to be sure Mina is scarcely yet out of the
                        tadpole stage, but that's a fault will mend with time, never fear; and men
                        are so odd in their notions, you know, that they take up with raw girls like
                        that when, but for the asking, they might have women of the maturest mien
                        and manners."
                    "But where, in the meanwhile, is the dear love herself, Frau Professorinn?"
                        interposed Frau Scherer, "that I may hasten to embrace her; for I assure you
                        I have thought of nothing else since I heard of it—that's the fact. To think
                        that such celebrity, a man who goes into the highest circles, and so
                        genteel-looking too (between ourselves, but for heaven's sake let it go no
                        farther, my dear Frau Lichtenfeld, I am told that Princess Stephanie is
                        almost off her head about him—quite a second Leonora, they say); and to
                        think that he should have picked out our Minchen, of all girls, it's
                        amazing, truly! But as—dear, dear, who was it now? Let me see—no—yes—I think
                        it is Goethe who says, that in love it's all a lottery as to who shall draw
                        the great prize and who the blank—isn't it, now?"
                    "Well, well," said Frau Lichtenfeld, "as far as my experience goes, you're
                        not very far out there, Frau Scherer. If a housewife now were to buy her pig
                        or potatoes with as little care and forethought as people  bestow on the choosing of partners, why, she'd be
                        sold and swindled right and left; and serve her right, too, for a lazy slut.
                        But that's what I say, all the care and prudence in the world mightn't
                        answer better in the long run after all than this startling, buzzy like
                        style of dashing into matrimony; and once we're caught in the scrape, why we
                        must make the best of it, as I tell Mina—though for aught she heeds or
                        hears, I might as well be dumb and she deaf, I tell her. But there, the sky
                        hangs full of fiddles for her as yet; still, something may stick in the end
                        and turn up when wanted, I hope; for that I will say, I've never spared
                        either myself or my words when it's been for the good of my children, though
                        it's little thanks you ever get from them, Fräulein von Griesbach."
                    "Oh yes, honoured Frau Professorinn," replied that lady, with a pulling up of
                        the thin corners of her mouth, which did duty for a smile, "I can quite
                        believe, indeed I can, the fearful trouble your children must give you; and
                        I never see those two boys, Wolfgang and Hans, tearing down the street, as
                        if a mad dog were after them, but I feel that some dreadful calamity will
                        overtake them one of these days, they look so wild, reckless, so——"
                    "No, no, my dear Fräulein, there you mistake, there you entirely mistake. I
                        warrant there's not a better lad going, nor a more sensible, than my Wolf,
                        though I say it who shouldn't, perhaps. Boys will be boys, you know; but
                        he's a downright good, practical lad, with no nonsense in him, if you only
                        get at the right side of him—the very image of his maternal grandfather, the
                        Medicinalrath Duttenhofer."
                    
                    "Dear, dear, do you say so!" exclaimed Fräulein von Griesbach, with a lifting
                        of her scant eyebrows. "Of course you know best, and I only remember your
                        revered, highly-respected father when he attended my mother in her last
                        illness; but I see not the faintest likeness to that truly able physician,
                        with his shrewd, penetrating glance. It rather seems, if I may venture to
                        have an opinion in such a matter, that——"
                    "Oh, and how do you do, Frau Obertribunalprocurator? You find us all here in
                        full conclave, you see; but I must really beg a thousand pardons for keeping
                        you on the landing all this time," cried Frau Lichtenfeld, advancing to
                        shake hands with the new arrival.
                    "But then, it's such a very cosy one, with this nice broad seat here, and
                        those nasturtiums trained up the window, that I prefer it to any of the
                        rooms, if I may venture to say so, especially when the sun shines in as
                        pleasantly as now," said that portly, good-natured lady, sitting down beside
                        the other visitors; and without further preliminaries she pulled a long
                        stocking from the reticule which she carried, and began knitting
                        vigorously.
                    "And where's the little pretty one?" she asked; "I've expressly come to have
                        a sight of her, as she does not deign to come near me!"
                    "Yes, that's what we've all come for," put in Frau Scherer; "but, bless you,
                        we poor humdrum people are quite below the notice of Frau Emanuel Sturm that
                        is to be! She will have people of quite another sort to associate with
                        now!"
                    "But Herr Sturm is here just now," said Frau Lichtenfeld a little nervously,
                        as she locked the press again; "they are in the garden, I believe, and he
                             expects to monopolize her when he's
                        here, I can tell you, and glowers so if ever you go near to put in a
                        sensible word or two about things. But then, as I was saying to Therese only
                        yesterday, there's such an air about him, and he is so spoilt, that it's
                        best to let him have his way and not meddle with him. But, bless me, great
                        though they say he is, he's more like a big child, for all I can see; wants
                        everything on the instant he takes a thing in his head—for all the world
                        like Otto; and if by any chance Mina should just be trying on a dress when
                        he looks in, and he is kept waiting a little (do my lord good, too, I say!),
                        you hear him calling her all over the house—'Mina!—Mina!—Mina!—are you going
                        to keep me for ever, Mina!'—till it's quite distracting-like. But you must
                        come into my room and see the presents he's already been giving her, more
                        fit for a princess than a girl of her station: such a cloak, trimmed with
                        sable's tails—would you believe it!—to go travelling about with, for he is
                        going to take her all over the world. Think of that—not that there's so much
                        in travelling to my mind——"
                    "There I quite agree with you," said Fräulein von Griesbach. "I hold with the
                        good old saw that says, 'Stay in thy country and earn thy bread honestly.'
                        These rolling stones gather no moss——"
                    "Just what I say," exclaimed Frau Lichtenfeld, without giving her friend time
                        to finish—"just what I say, my dear Fräulein, and the only time I ever left
                        my birthplace was when Heinrich took me to Switzerland for our honeymoon;
                        and, bless you, if we didn't get honey enough to eat and to spare too;
                        everyday they gave it us for breakfast—would you believe? But I don't  hold with such extravagance, and it was
                        quite a trouble to me at that time that it is such sticky, dripping stuff,
                        or I would have tucked it away in my pocket and brought it home with me. And
                        it's past all belief the way they'll charge you for candles in those
                        hotels—robbers' nests, I call them, that took every bit of pleasure clean
                        away for my part: the only comfort was that I brought quite five pounds of
                        candles away with me, and sugar enough to last me for half a year. But as to
                        those mountains now, and those horrible breakneck paths that Heinrich took
                        me along, why, I flatly told him at the time I thought he had taken me there
                        to murder me outright! Herr Jesus, they made your head spin round like a top
                        to look down some of them. There was just one pretty thing that I saw
                        though—yes, I remember it as if it had been yesterday; such a fresh green
                        meadow as it was—at Andermatt, that was the name—so sweet, too, after that
                        frightful St. Gotthardt, and I at once said to Heinrich, 'Oh, what a capital
                        bleaching-ground that would make, wouldn't it? If only we could take it home
                        with us!' But he had no sense, poor man, as I then discovered, and only
                        laughed like a ninny. Well, but as I was saying—as soon as he can get hold
                        of her he'll spend every hour in that back garden with her, or in the fields
                        behind it."
                    "Severe masters have short reigns," said Fräulein von Griesbach, in a
                        half-aside; and then in a louder voice she asked insinuatingly, "and do you
                        think it quite prudent to let them be so much alone together, honoured Frau
                        Professorinn? Well, and what does your brother say to the match, Frau
                        Scherer? As her godfather and nearest male protector he ought to  have been the first to have been consulted, I
                        should have thought."
                    "I hope he may have got my letter with the news," answered Frau Scherer; "but
                        you know" (looking about her very cautiously and sinking her voice almost to
                        a whisper) "he is so full of secrets and mysteries of late—I only hope no
                        harm may come of it—and he's been in twenty places at once, it seems, and
                        even I, his own flesh and blood, haven't known half the time where to write
                        to him; though he's been last heard of at Frankfort. But, indeed; 'tis
                        strange the change that's come over him of late."
                    "Such a friendly and amusing man as he always was," sighed Fräulein von
                        Griesbach; "why, he might have made you laugh in the face of the toothache
                        itself."
                    They say talk of the d—— and he is sure to appear. Scarcely had the absent
                        Professor's name been mentioned than the door opened again, and, behold, in
                        walked that individual in person with the indispensable pipe in his
                        mouth.
                    Frau Scherer threw up her hands in astonishment, and all the ladies were not
                        a little surprised at this unexpected visitor.
                    "Why, Leopold, you have never come straight here after your journey?" said
                        his sister, looking at his dusty boots and that general air of unwashed and
                        unshorn griminess which a long night-journey usually gives to a person.
                    Her brother grunted something without directly replying, and after shaking
                        hands with her and the other ladies, asked abruptly whether Herr Sturm
                        happened perhaps to be about the premises just then.
                    
                    The widow thought to herself that she had always considered him a bear, but
                        not quite such an icy one; and Frau Scherer in vain tried, by means of
                        significant winks and signs and nudges, to remind him of the fact that he
                        had not addressed a word of congratulation or otherwise to their friend; but
                        Fräulein von Griesbach gave a kind of a sniff as though she scented some
                        mischief afar off, such as in her wisdom she had always predicted. All these
                        different signs, however, were lost upon Sontheim, who only repeated his
                        query rather more gruffly than before.
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER XXXVI.
                    THE APPLE OF YOUTH.
                    EARLY on the morning of that same day, soon after the event which had made
                        Mina the happiest girl in the best of all possible worlds, she had gone down
                        to the garden to wait for her lover. And what joy in life was comparable to
                        the thrill of that anticipated rapture!
                    As she was slowly pacing up down the path, with the dead leaves rustling
                        under her light tread, and the morning dew like a fine silver spray dashed
                        all along the grass, she wondered within herself whether she had ever really
                        lived before now; whether she could ever grow worthy of this great bliss
                        which made the heaven bluer, and added a lustre to the very sun himself.
                    Mina's happiness humbled her. It seemed so little she had to give in return
                        for these splendid gifts of intellect and genius which the famous musician
                        lavished upon her. For must not innocence remain an eternal mystery to
                        itself, or cease to be such?
                    
                    Unconscious of herself, lost in ecstatic contemplation of him she loved, Mina
                        resembled those Hindoo devotees whose personality is entirely absorbed in
                        the light of deity. She was bewildered with delight at the thought of
                        passing a long life at this beloved man's side. Indeed, the emotion which
                        his presence caused her was almost oppressive in its intensity; but now he
                        was not here she could freely yield herself up to the full tide of her love.
                        She could picture his form, and that trick of the long, nervous fingers
                        dashing back his rebellious hair, and the sudden sunlight of the smile when
                        he looked at her, and every lingering inflection of that voice to which her
                        pulses vibrated like the strings of his own violin.
                    And then how her heart beat as she heard his quick step, and saw him hurrying
                        along with the eager hands that were always stretched out on catching sight
                        of her.
                    "Ah, sweetheart," he said, after holding her in a long embrace, "I am glad I
                        find you here; there is so much that I want to talk to you about and settle
                        as to the future, you know."
                    And after imparting this information, he did nothing of the kind
                        whatsoever.
                    Future, past, what were they but idle words—empty imaginings—unsubstantial
                        shadows: was not the all in all of existence this golden now—this
                        palpitating present in which they looked at each other in long-tranced
                        silences, more eloquent than any speech—in which their fingers 
                            interwined
                            intertwined
                        —in which a sigh, a half-articulate word was overfull of the
                        heart's desire; but their lips only rarely met—Mina had wept so sorely the
                        first time her lover had kissed her.
                    
                    By and by they went and sat down on a garden seat under the pear-tree in the
                        shadow of the house.
                    Around about, on the trees, in the grass, there was a red-golden glimmer of
                        leaves, for the rich yet subdued glow of the autumnal sun was steeping hills
                        and fields and every nestling dell and corner in a somnolent splendour, in
                        which the earth seemed almost to hold her breath for a space lest she should
                        break the spell, and the whole gorgeous fabric suddenly crumble into dust
                        and ashes.
                    There was absolute stillness, only at intervals might be heard the thump of a
                        late over-ripe pear as it fell bursting on the grass.
                    Yet, though there was no wind, long shining threads of fairy gossamer went
                        continually floating up through the clear air higher and higher, some
                        getting enmeshed about the twigs, and branches, while the thin cloud-strips
                        in the sky above looked only like a closer web of the same ethereal
                        texture.
                    "The people about here," said Mina, as Emanuel was playfully extracting one
                        of these wandering films that had got tangled in her hair, "call these
                        threads 'Muttergottesgarn'—Mother of God's yarn, which she spun for the
                        baby-linen of the infant Jesus, and they believe that every year at this
                        season some of the superfluous threads are blown about in commemoration of
                        this blessed event."
                    "Why the people about here," remarked Emanuel, smiling, "might furnish a
                        whole bevy of poets with fancies and quaint conceits—at least to judge from
                        all the pretty things you tell me, sweetest; but as to that, we musicians
                        too might catch many an inspiration  from
                        the beautiful, sad cadences of the folk-songs here. Why, yesterday evening I
                        actually followed a small knot of vintagers far into the country, they had
                        such fine voices, and were singing in capital time too. One of the songs was
                        quite new to me; I can only remember a few words, however, but they were as
                        beautiful as the tune itself;" and he sang— 
                            "'Say, Kathleen dear, what comfort for my sighs.'"
                        
                    "Oh," cried Mina, vivaciously, "I know it well, it is one of Hebel's poems;
                        they are sometimes rather obscure because of the Alemmanic dialect, but I
                        understand it a little. This is how it goes—is it not touching?— 
                            
                                "'Say, Kathleen dear, what comfort for my sighs
                                Is in pied flowers, or bees with honeyed thighs?
                                Wert thou but kind, if in the deepest shaft—
                                Where never bee yet hummed, or flow'ret laughed—
                                And thou with me, I were in Paradise.'"
                            
                        
                    "Why, darling! said Emanuel, fondly, "that little head of yours is quite a
                        treasure-house of folk-songs and sayings. What a memory you must have!"
                    "Oh no," said Mina, "mother says that I am the most forgetful person alive;
                        it is only because I love these songs and the people they spring from—like
                        flowers, don't you think?—that they stick to me so, just as the scent of the
                        violets will cling to your hands long after you have put them away. But tell
                        me, will you really turn the song into one of your own beautiful
                        melodies?"
                    "After hearing it repeated by those sweet little lips of yours, it would be
                        strange if it didn't turn into the 
                        sweetest song I ever wrote. You shall see if I do not make it worthy of the
                        muse that inspired it."
                    "Ah," said Mina, looking up with smiling awe, "I do so wonder when I think
                        how glorious melodies like that can ever be produced! And then it has come
                        into my head that you must be exactly like my ear Granny's bees; for you
                        know they get a little sip here and a little sip there, and then—who can
                        tell how?—you find it all at once changed into cunningly-fashioned cells,
                        full of the clear, golden honey. And you too"—she added, blushing—"you too,I
                        suppose, get hold of the sounds that are all about us; but how you build
                        them up into those intricate harmonies that are such a labyrinth of tones,
                        and yet with such perfect order in the plan—what a mystery that is to
                        me!"
                    "You sweet little speculative elf you," said Emanuel, fondly, "it is not to
                        you alone that the laws which govern what we choose to call the 'creation'
                        of works of art have been a puzzle; why it's a stumbling-block to many of
                        your philosophers, though they are much given to flatter themselves that if
                        only they can invent big-sounding phrases enough, they've clinched the
                        matter satisfactorily.
                    "But as to what art is—whether it is, according to Plato's notion, the
                        bodying forth of the archetype inherent in the soul; or the image or
                        spectrum of the Cosmos mirrored in the mind with such superadded magic as
                        there is in the reflection of a landscape in stilled waters; or yet a third
                        something, an immaculate conception, a form begotten on the material
                        universe by the brooding spirit of man—whether it is one, or none, or all of
                        these mixed  together, I will not venture
                        to say. Theories are all very well, no doubt, but rather superfluous when
                        you're concerned with the arduous practice of art itself: such is my theory,
                        at any rate—but then I'm only a fiddler after all, and hardly know Aristotle
                        from Plato, to my shame be it confessed."
                    "But," interposed Mina quickly, flushing with pride, as not tolerating any
                        abuse of her love, though it were by her lover himself—"but you are such a
                        very great genius! And do you know what my father one day said that genius
                        was like? I remember well, because I always had such a longing to see some
                        one or other of those great men who had written the poems I loved, or the
                        more heavenly music that makes one feel almost as though it gave one wings
                        to fly away with like a bird! And oh, if I had ever thought then that I was
                        going—" she whispered with naive, girlish enthusiasm.
                    Emanuel, taking the words out of her mouth, said, looking at her with
                        deprecating tenderness: "If you had ever thought that you were going to have
                        such a good-for-nothing fellow saddled on you for life, perhaps you would
                        have repented of your desire. For I fear, Mina, we creatures of the fitful
                        fancy are like those dazzling dragon-flies flashing through the air, which
                        yet turn out commonplace enough when you've caught them. But what about your
                        father, Mina? How I wish I had known him! His image has taken such a hold of
                        my imagination somehow. You were going to tell me something he had said,
                        sweetheart!"
                    "But I don't know that I am able to quite convey his meaning," answered Mina,
                        doubtfully; "perhaps you will laugh if I tell you. He said he was sure the
                             squirrel mentioned in the 'Edda' was
                        a symbol of genius; for that it was the topmost thing flitting on the
                        topmost bough of Yggdrasil, the tree of life, yet knew the secrets of the
                        serpent secretly gnawing at its roots and the Norns' decree as they watered
                        them."
                    "Not a bad definition, truly," said Emanuel, musingly; "from him, too, I
                        might have had an account of that wild, visionary northern mythology which I
                        suspect might furnish some magnificent subjects for musical treatment. There
                        is that lovely myth of Balder, for example;, I only vaguely remember it, but
                        how well its suggestive symbolism would lend itself to the composition of a
                        symphony."
                    "Oh," said Mina, "that story from the 'Edda' my father used to tell me, and
                        that other one too, my favourite, about Iduna, the goddess whose eyes were
                        as blue as the blossoming flax. It was about her being the keeper of the
                        apples which grew in Gladheim, where the glad gods lived who every day ate
                        of these apples, the secret of their eternal youth. But the giant Thiassi
                        carried off Iduna, and when the gods could no longer get the apples they
                        grew old and older, their beautiful locks turned grey, their brows got
                        wrinkled, and the gladness that had dwelt in Gladheim forsook their eyes;
                        and when the gods felt old age creeping through their veins they were ready
                        to give up anything for the ransom of Iduna. The poor gods! Oh, it must be
                        dreadful to grow old; and yet," she added, pondering, "there's
                        grandmother—she is very, very old, you know—but she said when I told her
                        this story once, that there was an apple which, if only we would eat thereof
                        every day, would keep the heart's eternal youth."
                    
                    "Oh, what apple was that, sweet?" said Emanuel, "that I may see about getting
                        some before age overtakes me quite."
                    Mina grew very red as she said, "The love-apple, she called it; but, you
                        know—I don't think—she didn't mean exactly——"
                    "Yes, yes, she did mean exactly," said Emanuel, pressing Mina with a sudden
                        impulse to his heart—and then looking round, as though suddenly recollecting
                        himself and the eyes that might be peering at them. "Oh," he said, imitating
                        Mina's manner, "you know it's too dreadful to grow old—and I was growing
                        very, very old, not quite blear-eyed, perhaps, but with the grey hairs
                        coming like tares among the wheat, till my own Iduna here gave me to eat of
                        the apple of love, and I grew young again—almost as young as herself; and
                        will she see now," he said, boyishly flinging himself on the grass at her
                        feet, "whether the grey hairs have melted at her glance as snow in the
                        sunshine?"
                    Then, with that swift transition of mood so characteristic of the man, he
                        added with pathetic earnestness, raising his head and carrying Mina's hand
                        to his lips, "Ah, my love, when I recall the frame of mind with which I came
                        here, its desolation, its fierce unrest, the self-scorn eating into my
                        heart; when I recall——No, no," he said, as a sudden gloom clouded his
                        features—"let me not recall ..."
                    But what so swift, irrepressible, instantaneous, as thought? A sudden
                        remembrance can cast its momentary chill over the sunniest hour. For the
                        memories of deeds done beyond recall do not, unfortunately, lie still as the
                        dead in their quiet graves, but  rise,
                        ghost-like and unnaturally vivid, when wrought-up emotion is at its highest
                        tension. Perhaps at the very time the spirit aspires to a new life that
                        shall be purer and loftier than the old, conscience rears itself like a
                        snake that is trodden on, and exacts atonement for wrong-doing long past.
                        Such returns of the conscience upon itself may torture like the touch of hot
                        iron; and the nobler the nature was originally, the keener in proportion
                        these pangs will probably be.
                    At that moment Emanuel felt a violent compunction, a strong prompting to
                        reveal his whole past to Mina and let her be the arbitrator of his fate.
                        But, no! an intolerable sense of shame withheld him, for with the finer
                        susceptibilities awakened in him by her radiant purity of nature, he shrank
                        at the thought of what, seen through her eyes, now appeared to him a defiled
                        past, a past which she must never know, never suspect, never dream of. Good
                        heavens! how could she ever understand?—and there was a sudden faltering as
                        though he might yet bring dire anguish to this girl whose soul was opening
                        out to him slowly as the wind-flower or morning glory opens to the sun.
                    And then he cursed himself for a fool. There could come no harm to her now;
                        she was safe enough. Could he not give the girl all that women most desire
                        in life, name and fame, and the dazzling rewards thereof? What if there were
                        some things that could not bear being looked into by such eyes as hers: such
                        there were in all men's lives. And he passed his hand impatiently across his
                        brow as though he would have obliterated every impression of the past.
                    The sudden change in his expression had not escaped  Mina's loving ken. Without understanding its
                        cause she too, with instinctive sympathy, felt a sudden clouding over of her
                        happiness. There came an unaccountable yearning over her to entreat his full
                        confidence—to ask that whatever trouble might weigh on him, he would share
                        with her: how far sweeter to divide his pains with him than even his
                        pleasures! But girlish timidity and awe got the better of her impulse. Would
                        he think she could understand him, young and inexperienced as she was? But
                        in time he might see—love maketh very wise the heart.
                    Emanuel abruptly raised his eyes to Mina, seized both her hands in his, and
                        placed them on his head, as though there might be purification in their
                        touch. The moment was past—the supreme moment when their two destinies hung
                        upon the word that was never spoken!
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER XXXVII.
                    EXPLANATIONS.
                    IT was at this moment that Leopold Sontheim, accompanied by Frau Lichtenfeld,
                        stepped into the garden by the back-door; and though it was certainly not a
                        hot day, he took out his bandannah handkerchief and wiped the perspiration
                        several times off his broad forehead. Half screened by the huge water-butt,
                        the two stopped watching the unconscious lovers.
                    What a charming picture they made under the old pear-tree there, leaning
                        towards each other with that love-light in their eyes, and the golden
                        sunshine as it fell through the golden leaves making a glory of Mina's hair;
                        while Emanuel, who had now completely regained his usual buoyancy, was
                        saying—
                    "But tell me, sweetheart, will you really like rushing about the world with
                        me in this will-o'-the-wisp fashion. For you know, Mina, I mean to lug you
                        about with me everywhere; and then, who knows, you may get homesick; these
                        hills may come haunting your sleep—a 
                        feeling I only experienced once while giving a concert, but that once was
                        enough, for I came straight back here. True, it may have been
                            this fate here that drew me!" he added, with a beaming
                        smile at her.
                    "But where you are it will be home!" answered Mina, and then recurring to
                        that poem of Hegel's, she murmured in a low, moving voice— 
                            
                                "If in the deepest shaft—
                                Where never bee yet hummed, or flow'ret laughed—
                                And thou with me, I were in Paradise."
                            
                        
                    At the thrilling sincerity of her accent and the intensity of the look,
                        Emanuel felt a slight tremor creeping over his frame, and taking her head
                        between both his hands he kissed her very reverently on the drooping
                        eyelids.
                    The Professor beholding this uttered a suppressed oath or groan (it was
                        difficult for his companion to tell which), and she made sure now that the
                        poor man was going out of his mind, as she had predicted with more or less
                        emphasis for these six months past. Should he, indeed, suddenly break out
                        into raving madness, what a comfort to know that dear Herr Sturm was at
                        hand!
                    While such were the thoughts rapidly passing through the widow's mind
                        Sontheim went forward, and brought his hand so heavily down on the
                        musician's shoulder that he turned round with a startled exclamation. It
                        felt like the detective's grip who has secured his culprit.
                    "Halloo," he cried, shaking the hand which he grasped off his shoulder, "is
                        it you, mein lieber! Why you steal upon
                        one like a thief in the night—and now I look at you, you have the guilty air
                        of one too. What  dark haunts have you
                        been prowling in that you come back to your friends with such a scowl? But
                        never mind, we will cheer you up—won't we, Mina? We will suffer no one to be
                        wretched in our presence, you'll see, Leopold, while we have such boundless
                        happiness ourselves!"
                    His friend's incredible coolness and self-possession so staggered Sontheim
                        that he was at an utter loss for words. He could do nothing but stare at
                        him.
                    What!—when with a word of his he could unmask him there and then as the
                        false, unprincipled traitor he was! What, when he knew that he had stolen
                        this innocent girl's heart under false pretences, and that her good name
                        would be blasted, no doubt—he could stand there calm, smiling, utterly
                        unmoved, till it was he himself who felt like the culprit!
                    Mina gazed at her kind old friend and godfather in silent bewilderment. He
                        had as yet addressed no word, taken no notice of her whatever: at such a
                        time that seemed strange, unaccountable!
                    "Well," said Emanuel, lightly, seeing that Sontheim still kept silent, with a
                        heavy scowl on his brow which he could not or would not disguise—"well, you
                        might have said a word of congratulation to me under the circumstances, my
                        friend—though in Mina's case you may think it's but a bad bargain at the
                        best. But come, I'll go with you; no doubt you have some bad news preying on
                        your mind."
                    Sontheim, with visible constraint, said a few lame words to Mina, which,
                        whatever their purport, sounded rather like a condolence than a
                        congratulation; and all the time he looked so painfully ill-at-ease that
                        Emanuel  quickly picking up his round felt
                        hat from the grass, whispered as he pressed Mina's hands, "I shall look in
                        early to-morrow morning, darling; but now I must go and see what's the
                        matter with our bear!"
                    Sontheim looked furtively at Mina with a world of compassion in his eyes.
                        Should he ever again see her thus radiant with youth and happiness? or the
                        next time they met, would she be like a rose which the storm has broken
                        over-night? For though generally sanguine in his estimate of men and things,
                        the Professor could not divest himself of an impression that this girl, with
                        all her brightness, belonged to the class of tragic characters—to those,
                        namely, who at the first violent collision of the heart with destiny founder
                        like some goodly vessel striking on a hidden rock.
                    But he only grunted a scant good-bye as he went off with Emanuel, who turned
                        quickly back at the street-door under pretence of having forgotten
                        something. It was only to say good-bye once more.
                    Sontheim was no sooner in the street than, unable to contain himself any
                        longer, he burst out with—
                    "No, I could never have believed it! I knew that you were as weak as water
                        where women are concerned, but not—not that you were treacherous,
                        dishonourable not, in short, that you were a——"
                    "Stop," cried Emanuel, passionately; "do not utter words that even from his
                        oldest friend a man cannot calmly listen to. Listen! I should have written
                        to you before taking the leap, no doubt; but how was one to let you know
                        when no one could tell where the devil you were? and so in my
                        impetuosity—but no matter now—I am free!"
                    
                    "Free," repeated Sontheim, with a look of sudden terror, "how free?"
                    "Yes, yes," cried the other vehemently, "you shall hear all about it man; but
                        for heaven's sake don't look so scared. Didn't I mean to tell you all about
                        it before ever speaking to them! But where were you? How was one to write to
                        you? I heard something about revolutionary propaganda, secret
                        conspiracy—heaven knows what! Was it my fault that you were skulking in
                        unknown taverns and cellars throughout Germany?"
                    Emanuel by this time had worked himself up into a fine passion, and from
                        accused was turning accuser.
                    They had now reached Sontheim's dwelling, who, unlocking the door of his
                        study with rather an unsteady hand, entered with Emanuel.
                    Everything there were exactly as the Professor had left it, down to a nosegay
                        of monthly roses shrivelled to a mere repulsive skeleton of its former self;
                        only the dust lay thicker than ever on the confused litter of books and
                        papers.
                    In spite of his painful anxiety Leopold Sontheim filled himself a fresh pipe,
                        and divesting himself of his coat and boots, donned once again the cherished
                        old dressing-gown and slippers.
                    "Ah," said Emanuel, suppressing a smile, "the old Adam still sticks to you, I
                        see, in spite of everything;" and he seated himself on the edge of the only
                        chair that was not quite encumbered with books.
                    "But you have not told me yet," said Sontheim—and his voice shook a little as
                        his hand had done—"how it happens that you are free."
                    "Well, you shall hear all about it, if you will only  give me time," replied Emanuel, throwing some of
                        the books on the floor. "On that terrible morning, Leopold, which neither of
                        us can forget, I resolved on one thing once for all. If I could not untie
                        the accursed bonds, they should be cut asunder somehow.
                    "As I walked from your house to the station, I hesitated between starting for
                        Paris, St. Petersburgh, or Rome. What was to be done had to be done quickly
                        too. I was due at the musical festival at Leipzig in August, and in
                        Birmingham in September. On my way a bright thought struck me. I would seek
                        out Raoul, who was somewhere in Italy: there is no one like him to help a
                        fellow in trouble, you know; and with his endless resource—who could
                        tell?—he might get me out of the toils again!
                    "So I went straight off to Venice, where I heard he was, but he had left
                        again; and I followed him to Mantua and Florence; and at last, after all,
                        found him back in the old studio at Rome.
                    "I confess to a queer sensation when I re-entered that well-known place
                        again, which I had last seen—well, never mind.
                    "And now, having found Raoul, I made a clean breast of it. He is a trump,
                        that fellow. His advice was that we should hunt up the priest who had
                        married me under the late Pope, ten years ago—the priest who had been so
                        liberally bribed, you remember; and he begged me not to move in the matter
                        at all, but to let him make the necessary inquiries.
                    "He had quite lost sight of this priest for a long time now, and it tool him
                        some days, therefore, to come upon his traces again. As it happened, he and
                             Raoul himself would now be the only
                        living witnesses of this marriage, as Margutta, the housekeeper, had died
                        some years before.
                    "One day my friend burst into the room, whistling his favourite air with such
                        gusto, that I knew he was the bearer of some good intelligence to me before
                        he had time to exclaim: 'Let me congratulate you, mon cher; you're no more married than I am!"
                    "How so? how so?" cried the Professor, breathlessly.
                    "Well, Sontheim, to make a long story short, that priest—then locked up in a
                        convent for grievous disciplinary offences—had no more business to perform
                        that ceremony than you yourself would have had. For it seems, according to
                        the laws of Rome, a marriage is invalid if not performed by the priest of
                        the parish in which one of the parties is residing, or one endowed by him
                        with the faculty, as the phrase is.
                    "But this scamp of a priest, eager for his bribe you see, played us a trick
                        which we should never have discovered had things gone differently; so what a
                        model told Raoul years ago seems true enough—that for ten pauls you could
                        get a priest to marry you to your own grandmother, only you must not meddle
                        with the laws of succession afterwards.
                    "Well, you see I am free! You remember the letter you showed me that morning;
                        I noted the address there given, and the mention of the Count's gradual
                        sinking, so I plucked up heart of grace and made the last communication I
                        trust ever to have to address to that—that——"
                    Never mind," said Sontheim; "go on, go on."
                    
                    "Well, I wrote a succinct statement, with Raoul's approval, informing Madame
                        that as to that little marriage business of ours we had hitherto been under
                        a misapprehension, and that she was not a bigamist, but, as good luck would
                        have it, quite decently married to her present husband; and that, therefore,
                        to set her mind at rest in case of disputes as to questions of inheritance,
                        her right could not be disputed."
                    "Yes, yes!" cried Sontheim, and took a long breath, like one off whose breast
                        a load has suddenly been taken. "And so now," he said, slowly, with the
                        faintest interrogation possible in his tone, "you really mean to marry that
                        child Mina?"
                    "What do you mean by 'really mean to marry?'" cried Emanuel, testily. "Of
                        course I mean to marry her; but perhaps," said he, with a sudden humility of
                        look and accent, "perhaps you think that that dear angel is too good for
                        such a scamp as myself. It is true there is one disgraceful, shocking
                        episode in my life; heaven knows I would have wiped it out with my blood,
                        had the opportunity been given me; but, Sontheim, there are things that are
                        like a madness in the brain—we are scarcely at all times responsible for
                        them. But what's the use of trying to extenuate what must always remain
                        intolerable."
                    Sontheim here interposed warmly: "There now, you are always in extremes! I
                        consider, whatever may be said, that you have been more sinned against than
                        sinning. And then, when one reflects on the temptation you have had!" Here
                        the Professor shifted uneasily about in his chair. "At all events, treachery
                        did not originate with you. How can a poor devil of a man  help himself when destiny throws such a bait as
                        that in his path."
                    There was something in his friend's tone that made Emanuel raise his
                        eyebrows.
                    "As to Mina," continued Sontheim, "I have nothing to urge against the match
                        now, you may be sure. Indeed, though she is a dear, good little soul, I
                        think she's in luck's way to get a man like you, at the meridian of fame,
                        for husband;" and he added jocosely, "one whom all the ladies go mad after,
                        if report says true!"
                    Emanuel, who had been strumming impatiently on the table during this speech,
                        here burst out, with a slight laugh, "There's a proverb about pearls, you
                        know, Leopold. Never mind, we won't quarrel about trifles when the chief
                        thing's settled once for all. But, by the way, you will of course never
                        breathe a syllable of all this to Mina. Heaven only knows what effect it
                        might have upon her; and in any case it would take the bloom off her love
                        were she to know of this. She is so young! Years hence, perhaps, I may tell
                        her all about it. Promise me you'll never mention it to her, Leopold."
                    "Oh no, upon my word, she shall hear nothing from me," cried Sontheim; and to
                        emphasize his promise he shook hands with his friend across the table.
                    "Of course you'll give her away, Leopold?" said Emanuel.
                    "Naturally! But is the wedding to be soon, then?" asked Sontheim.
                    "Yes, yes," said the musician; "it should be tomorrow if I had my will. I
                        hate putting these sort of  things off;
                        but there's that notable mother, you know, she's crazed about gowns and
                        ribbons, and a lot of fiddle-faddle of that kind—as if a man wanted to set
                        up in the drapery line when he takes a wife unto himself! But she's
                        inexorable about it; says the trousseau can't possibly be ready till the
                        middle of November. Thank heaven, Mina has no nonsense of that sort about
                        her; but of course she wouldn't be the Mina she is if she had: she wouldn't
                        be my love at all, but a commonplace creature who cannot dissociate the most
                        solemn acts of life from frippery! No, she would go with me to the altar in
                        that faded green print in which I first saw and fell in love with her, bless
                        the darling; but filial affection will not let her run counter to her
                        mother's hobby. However, the upshot of it is," he added, gloomily, "that we
                        can't now get married till the end of December."
                    "Well, well," said Sontheim, with a smile, "that isn't so far off, after all,
                        considering October is drawing to its close."
                    "Unfortunately," replied Emanuel, "in another fortnight I must be off on the
                        grind again. I have to give concerts at Vienna, Berlin, Breslau, Prague,
                        Munich, and I shudder to enumerate what other places besides. I want to make
                        a good big sum of money, so as to live merrily with my love! I expect to
                        return just in time for the wedding, or a day before at the utmost.
                    "But now I must be off, for I have promised to play at the Grand Duke's
                        to-night. He is staying at Ludwigslust, and has taken a craze about me, just
                        when it's confoundedly inconvenient. But what can one do?  we musicians cannot afford to offend crowned
                        heads as you do, Leopold. However,it has yielded me one little satisfaction;
                        for the Grand Duke discovering what a fancy I had taken to that Rococo
                        Pavilion in the Palace Gardens, very courteously placed it at my disposal
                        during my stay here, though it is connected with some romantic episode in
                        his father's history, owing to which it has been carefully kept in its
                        original state."
                    "Oh yes," said Sontheim; "some melancholy and discreditable story there is, I
                        remember, about an Italian singer who, rumour says, drowned herself in the
                        Venus Pond, as it is called. Did I not come upon you there one
                        evening——"
                    "In the flagrant act of making love to Mina, you mean," said Emanuel. "Ah,
                        what an expression your face then had! Let me tell you, you wouldn't do for
                        a courtier, my friend—nor even, I fear," he added, with a knowing glance at
                        Sontheim, "for a very successful conspirator, for you always show so exactly
                        what your feelings of the moment are. By the way, what is the meaning of
                        certain mysterious rumours that have reached me? Do you seriously
                        contemplate, Hercules-like, to demolish that German Hydra of the thirty-six
                        crowned heads? No, no, my friend, the attempt is hopeless; should you cut
                        off one of them you will see it immediately replaced by another! But 'ware
                        your own, Sontheim; there's a storm brewing—I can sniff it in the air far
                        off; there'll be sorry work done, I fear!"
                    The Professor did not immediately reply, but ruminatingly puffed away at his
                        pipe with more than usual energy. The fact was that he had only this very
                        morning returned from Leipsic, having hurried back owing  to his sister's letter, which contained the news
                        of his god-daughter's engagement to his friend Emanuel Sturm. At the latter
                        city he had, indeed, been in secret communication with Robert Blum, and
                        republicans of like convictions. For after the demolition of certain hopes
                        which he had secretly cherished Professor Sontheim could settle to his books
                        no longer. A fever seemed to rage in his veins, and the burly man would now
                        and then grasp his short bull-like neck as though he felt some one
                        throttling him.
                    Ardent patriot he had always been, though hitherto too much of a book-worm to
                        concern himself practically with politics, especially at a time when the
                        thing itself scarcely existed in the German fatherland. But just at this
                        period—a year or two before the Revolution of 1848 was transmitted like an
                        electric current from one part of the continent to the other—a growing
                        disaffection with the present condition of misgovernment broke out in the
                        many sub-states of the unwieldy Empire; and the problem of the situation
                        was, how to establish any conceited action amongst the republican members of
                        so many petty and disjointed sovereignties.
                    Now Sontheim, at one of the secret tavern meetings where republicans used to
                        address each other till long after midnight through dense clouds of tobacco
                        smoke, had offered to start on a confidential mission to various
                        principalities of the Bund, in order to
                        sound and bring about an understanding between the different leaders. There
                        was the less fear of rousing the suspicion of government from the fact of
                        his having hitherto kept so much aloof from all participation in
                        revolutionary agitation; although now he at once  assumed a prominent position, owing to his strong
                        will, his encyclopædic knowledge, and a certain brutal directness of speech
                        and action when himself roused, which acted like a pair of bellows in
                        fanning into flame the smouldering passion of his auditory. So he was dubbed
                        the "Red Sontheim," in compliment to the fiery complexion of his politics as
                        well as his hair.
                    When thus interrogated by the musician, therefore, he kept silent for a time,
                        being somewhat taken aback at the question, as hardly knowing what answer to
                        make to an intimate who was yet the friend—or at least on terms of apparent
                        friendship with the very princes whom evening after evening he denounced as
                        leeches, cut-purses, and assassins of the people.
                    Presently looking sharply at Emanuel, he said hesitatingly: "When one is
                        hand-in-glove with so many princesses and grand dukes, I fear opinions on
                        some subjects must be considerably warped and handicapped; but what has put
                        those notions about me into your head?"
                    "Oh," said the violinist, smiling a little scornfully, "I don't want to pump
                        you! Don't tell me anything if you'd sooner not. Though surely," he added
                        with a momentary frown, "you would never suspect me of babbling to you to
                        these same princesses! I see a little deeper into a millstone than perhaps
                        you may give me credit for; at all events, knocking about the world as I do,
                        not with closed eyes exactly, I apprehend the new spirit that is abroad: an
                        unfledged spirit it is, helplessly sprawling at present, but it will grow to
                        a gigantic size, and transform the face of Europe one of these days—but not
                        in our time, Sontheim, not in our time. Why  don't you know I'm revolutionary at bottom? but it all goes into music
                        with me; only the crowned Midas' don't see it. And why should I enlighten
                        them, pray? for till the people shall have become our peers we must still
                        have princes for patrons. There's my profession of faith, but I don't want
                        yours, Sontheim; on the whole, it will be better you should keep your
                        counsel, especially as I am staying in Grand Duke Ludwig's pavilion."
                    The Professor, who had risen, laid his hand with a certain rough affection on
                        his friend's shoulder. "My dear Emanuel," he said, "there's nothing I would
                        not trust you with as far as I am concerned; but to tell you the truth,
                        certain matters in which I am implicated are not my own to divulge. You
                        guess truly that I am of late plighted to a cause which I consider of
                        paramount importance to our poor, divided, down-trodden people. However, I
                        am a patriot even before being a republican! What I desire above all things
                        is to see the patched, many-coloured coat of our poor enslaved nation entire
                        again; to see it strong, indivisible, instead of a laughing-stock to the
                        world. But there'll be an earthquake ere long that will shake their rotten
                        thrones, and then we shall cease to prate of being Würtembergians, or
                        Saxons, or Badenser, or Prussians, and pride ourselves on being Germans, and
                        Germans only."
                    The musician shook his head as he answered: "You won't achieve it with
                        conspiracies and revolutions, take my word for it. You will find your want
                        of unity a fatal impediment; each state, should there be a revolution, will
                        waste its fire by going off at the wrong moment and will then be gagged and
                        bound more tightly than before. Ah, I fear, I fear——"
                    
                    "But," cried Sontheim, interrupting him eagerly, "that's the very mission on
                        which I——" and then he stopped abruptly, as being on the point of disclosing
                        a secret which he had bound himself by oath to keep.
                    "Well," said Emanuel, smiling as he rose, "I won't stay longer, or in spite
                        of myself I might worm some of your secrets from your keeping. You know
                        where I'm staying, and I suppose your republicanism will not prevent your
                        coming to see me there."
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER XXXVIII.
                    PASSING AWAY.
                    IT was one of those soft, subdued days in early November, when the winds,
                        after blowing from every point of the compass, seem spent out with howling,
                        and leave off worrying the poor palsied leaves still spasmodically clinging
                        to the strong arms that have held them up so unweariedly to the light and
                        air of heaven through all the sweet summer months, and that are now so
                        powerless to avert their fall. For these leaves, although flaunting it in
                        such bright and garish tints as if mocking at decay, yet have the
                        death-brand upon them, and seem to burn and shrivel up like chips consumed
                        in the flames of a slow yet quenchless fire. In the meanwhile their patches
                        of hot colour stood out all the stronger against the wan monotone of the
                        quiet sky, which, neither grey nor blue, had a milk-like hazy look, touched
                        with a watery sheen and glimmer in that part of the heavens where the sun
                        should have been.
                    
                    Yes, it was a day of lull; a truce between conflicting elemental forces; and
                        the tired earth, with half her bravery gone, desisted from the passionate
                        struggle for her vanishing glories, and only sighed for peace.
                    And peace there was far away yonder, where the hills melted into the horizon
                        in a soft gradation of grey in grey; and peace down in the valley where the
                        steep-roofed town lay faintly visible through the frail folds of the pallid
                        wavering mist; and peace in the cottage here on the hill-side, where no
                        living creature was stirring on this Sunday afternoon save old Dame
                        Lichtenfeld, and her older raven, who kept solemnly hopping backwards and
                        forwards, as though he had been entrusted with the care of the premises. For
                        his mistress, arrayed in her best Sunday gown and frilled white cap, was for
                        once taking her ease in the well-worn brown-leather arm-chair; the same
                        capacious chair where successive generations of babies had been crooned to
                        sleep in her arms, no doubt.
                    Now, however, that. there were no babies, she had still got her flowers; for
                        on the sill, outside the small diamond-paned window, there yet lingered a
                        few pale Michaelmas-daisies and marigolds, which always blossomed there
                        later than in any other spot, and from time to time she would pass her lean
                        bony fingers very gently over their petals, as though they could feel her
                        touch; from time to time even she would mutter some words, seemingly half
                        addressed to them.
                    To this solitary woman, indeed, there existed no very distinct demarcation
                        between herself and the animals and plants which lived around her, and had
                        now for more than twenty years been the closest companions of  her old age. A well-spring of love there was in
                        her, constantly overflowing into everything animate and inanimate that
                        surrounded her, which again, although only a reflection from herself,
                        returned back to its source like something from without.
                    All at once, however, this settled calm was disturbed by a low, blithe sound
                        as of talking and laughter; then there came a pattering of footsteps on the
                        dry leaves, and the click of the garden gate swung quickly back on its
                        hinges; then the steps and the voices ceased again, and a person with sharp
                        ears might have heard something which sounded suspiciously like a kiss. But
                        the old lady, whose senses were slightly blunted, did not hear any of these
                        things, so that all at once she was almost dazed and dazzled with the life,
                        light, and happiness that seemed literally to stream into the low, dim
                        apartment, as Emanuel and Mina entered it together.
                    "Why, children!" she cried, rising, not without some difficulty, to her feet,
                        and then she looked from Emanuel's keen, beaming features to Mina's bashful,
                        blushing face.
                    "Oh, Granny," murmured the latter, but she got no further, and dropping her
                        long spray of crimson berries, she threw her arms round the old lady's neck,
                        her rose-red face vanishing completely beneath the starched frills of that
                        enormous mob-cap.
                    Grandmother and grandchild held each other in a long embrace. With the
                        piercing intuition of a loving heart, the former had indeed divined Mina's
                        secret before the girl herself had suspected it. And, unknown to any one,
                        she had hoped and feared, and  prayed, and
                        watched over her favourite as much as it was possible for her under the
                        circumstances.
                    So she said, when she had at length freed herself from Mina's embrace,
                        stretching out her hand to Emanuel, while her eyes were dim with tears,
                        "Bless thee, my boy; thou hast fulfilled the wish nearest my heart! Now
                        truly I shall depart in peace."
                    "Come, little mother, do not be a kill-joy for once in your life, and that
                        just when we mean to set about living in good earnest. Why, what's eighty or
                        thereabouts when one is an evergreen like you?" said Emanuel, as he suddenly
                        seized her round the waist and, almost lifting her off the ground in his mad
                        way, imprinted two or three hearty kisses on her shrunken cheeks before he
                        would let her go.
                    They all laughed, and then he went on, "You know you are coming to live with
                        us, you and your raven to hoot; and see if you don't dandle yet another
                        generation on your knees before you have done with us, little mother."
                    "No, no, my children," she answered; "when one is as old as I am, one has
                        struck one's roots too deep into the soil to bear transplanting, though it
                        were into a very bower of Eden. This plot of ground, and all around as far
                        as you can see—that valley where my loved ones lie, and the hills over there
                        behind which the sun goes down, even as we, children dear, go down into our
                        graves to rise again into glory everlasting—all this, not to speak of my
                        bees and flowers, has become part and parcel of this old life now; and when
                        I go from here, 'tis that I'll have gone to my long rest."
                    The old lady said this in a low, inward voice, speaking  to herself, seeming almost to have forgotten her
                        guests, till recalled to the present by Mina, who, perched on one of the
                        arms of the huge easy-chair, with her chin propped on the top, heaved a deep
                        sigh as she said, "Oh, Granny, I pictured to myself how glad we should make
                        you——"
                    "Forgive me, my pet, forgive me," cried her grandmother, taking the small
                        hand that had been stroking her cheek with much the same tender gesture with
                        which she herself had stroked the flowers; "it was the depth of my gladness
                        that made me speak as I did, because I felt I could cease from troubling
                        now, But you don't understand—how should either of you understand? But tell
                        me, children, tell me, are you very happy? Ah, my boy, I am glad you will
                        have some one to love you and take care of you. Yes, you look different
                        already, not hunted-like and bitter as you did; and by and by, when you know
                        her better, you will see what Minchen is—just like the sweetbriar that fills
                        the air for ever so far round, and yet you can hardly tell where the
                        sweetness comes from.
                    "Ah, love one another well, my children, for believe me, who have long
                        outlived man's allotted span of years, and borne some of his heaviest
                        trials—believe me, there's but one thing here below with which to overcome
                        all the ills that flesh is heir to; one blessed thing which will keep our
                        hearts from breaking in the hour of affliction, and the spirit from vain
                        boastfulness if good fortune be allotted it; one sweet thing that will make
                        us feel the kindred that's all the world over—love, you know, and always
                        love; children dear.
                    "But here I am preaching to you like an old dolt,  as if you didn't know all about love, bless you,
                        far better than your mummy of a grandmother. And I dare say, poor things,
                        you are famishing after that climb up the hill; so now I'll just go into the
                        kitchen and get you something to eat and drink, for Susan has gone to the
                        wake."
                    But Mina would not hear of her grandmother putting herself about; and
                        protesting that she knew exactly where the things were put, and what to get
                        ready, she disappeared with a happy nod and smile.
                    While she was very busy in that neatest of pink-washed kitchens, her
                        grandmother said to Emanuel, "Make her very happy, my boy; she is a tender
                        plant, and needs love as much as my muscatel grapes do the sunshine, but she
                        will repay it a thousandfold too."
                    "Ah," he replied, "I know well what she is, little mother; one hasn't knocked
                        about the world as I have without getting to know one's fellow-creatures
                        rather better than is quite pleasant always: they are a ramshackle lot on
                        the whole—a vain, grasping, double-faced, self-seeking lot. Nay, nay, do not
                        look so shocked; it is because I know the world so well that I prize at its
                        full worth this sweet girl, whose nature is as limpid as a stream of clear
                        water, in which you may count the very pebbles at the bottom."
                    "Yes, yes," she said, nodding her head, "she's like her father, and like her
                        grandfather—my dear, dear husband that was. He, too, had a heart without
                        guile; and so truthful he was, he couldn't understand people were ever
                        otherwise, but believed always everything that any one told him. And that
                        doesn't answer in business, you know, Emanuel, and so they swindled him;  and one man—a friend he called himself,
                        the false-hearted knave—got him to lend him more money than he could spare,
                        and then went off to America and never paid a groschen, and that was the
                        ruin of my dear, dear Hans: for then he became bankrupt, and though he paid
                        off every kreuzer he owed, he never got over it, for his heart was
                        broken—though he would always hide it from me. How it all comes back now, oh
                        so vividly, the day we came up to live here in the little summer-house, on
                        that cold March day; and there was no stove here, either, to light a fire
                        in, and the water running down the walls, and all the children crying with
                        cold and hunger, and Hans trying to comfort them, when it was he, poor
                        heart, who wanted the comfort most. Ah me, ah me!
                    "So when I used to think how it had fared with poor Hans—and with my poor
                        Heinrich, too, for he never throve, though he was such a great scholar, they
                        said—you see I couldn't help being afraid for my Mina, for she's like the
                        apple of my eye to me, and her mother has no right understanding of that
                        child; and then she made such great friends too, in that warm, confiding way
                        she has, with a very noble lady, I believe, and a very beautiful too—but,
                        but——" and she shook her head dubiously, "when I looked at her eyes it gave
                        me a shiver—there was something so uncanny inside of them. But now," she
                        said, looking up at Emanuel with a happy face, "now it is well! Haven't I
                        known you since you were that high? and though you have been away in the
                        wide world, and perhaps had to have dealings with those who were not upright
                        and honest, they can't have changed your heart for you,Emanuel;  and you will take care of her, you will take care
                        of the child when I am gone, God bless you!"
                    She uttered the last words almost in a supplicating voice; and Emanuel,
                        deeply moved, answered as he pressed her hand: "I will watch over her as the
                        better angel of my life—but let me go now, and see what she is about so
                        long."
                    "No, no, my boy, you stop here," said Mina's grandmother, shaking her finger
                        at him, "or the child will spill the soup, for she's not very apt at those
                        things as it is. But I'll just go and give a look round myself, for my old
                        hands haven't quite forgotten their cunning yet."
                    So saying, she walked out of the room, holding on a little by the wall as she
                        went, and found Mina very busy in the kitchen putting the plates,
                        queer-handled knives, and two-pronged forks on a tray. But instead of
                        further bestirring themselves about these things, the old woman and the
                        young one took to hugging and kissing each other, and to laugh a little and
                        to cry a little with caressing ejaculations in between, as if they were
                        regularly demented with joy—in fact, they had it regularly out, so to
                        speak.
                    But a strange thing happened presently. Mina at last went back carrying the
                        tray, leaving her grandmother mixing her pancakes in a saucepan; and an
                        unconscionable time did the girl spend laying the cloth, with the assistance
                        of Emanuel, who insisted on all sorts of interludes, and between the placing
                        of every spoon did a little spooning on his own account. But presently the
                        cuckoo popped out of the cuckoo-clock and loudly proclaimed that it was
                        two.
                    
                    Mina, recalled all at once to a sense of time, exclaimed, "Dear, what a long,
                        long time Granny has been in the kitchen; why, she must be inventing some
                        new dish to surprise you with!"
                    "Oh, I know what she is about," said Emanuel, with a saucy laugh; "she thinks
                        I want you all to myself, sweetheart."
                    "But we must go and fetch her at once," exclaimed Mina; "why, it is such a
                        long time past her dinner-hour."
                    So they went together into the kitchen—but the old lady was not there;
                        neither did she answer when they called her. Then, to their unutterable
                        surprise, they caught sight of her through the window, rambling up the path
                        which led up the vineyard.
                    "Granny, Granny!" called Mina, rushing out of the house, followed by
                        Emanuel.
                    They had quickly overtaken her, and Mina, seizing her by the arm, said, a
                        little out of breath, "Why, Granny, you were not thinking to find any grapes
                        left on the vines at this time, were you?"
                    "No, no, Annerle dear; it was the door of the sitting-room I was looking for,
                        to be sure," she said, calmly.
                    Mina, utterly taken aback, stared at her in a bewildered way, as she now
                        walked unconcernedly back with them, seeming perfectly well too.
                    "And has Hans returned from the town yet?" she asked. "Is it all over? Have
                        they sold everything? Well, we must meet him with smiling faces; we must not
                        let him think we are fretting, children. No, no, don't cry; it will break
                        his heart to see you crying so. And as long as there's no shame, what
                        matter, I say  And we shall make a living
                        by the bees yet—see if we don't; and there's no misfortune if we only hold
                        together, children!"
                    Mina was trembling now, and large tears were gathering in her eyes.
                    Emanuel whispered softly to her: "The excitement of this afternoon has been
                        too much for her. But be quite natural with her, dearest; look as though you
                        took everything for granted. It may be a sudden weakness which will pass
                        when she has eaten something, for she seems well otherwise. We can do
                        nothing else."
                    Mina, after this, tried hard to keep her self-control; but she looked very
                        anxious and pale as she dished up the dinner, which she could not touch
                        herself, though she made a pretence of doing so.
                    Her grandmother, however, partook of the soup and meat, all the while asking,
                        after people that had been lying in the churchyard these thirty years and
                        more; and sometimes she would address Mina as her daughter Annerle, and
                        sometimes as her daughter's daughter, Elfrida; and she spoke of long-past
                        events as though they had happened a few hours back.
                    Emanuel and Mina did not know what to do. They spoke to her, and she spoke to
                        them; but she saw them through a veil of shifting memories, in which their
                        faces were being mysteriously exchanged and confounded with other faces—like
                        those cloud-shapes, undergoing continual transformation even as you are
                        looking at them. She was not delirious or mad by any means, only part of her
                        brain seemed suddenly to have given way; the present being obliterated, the
                        impressions of  the past alone suddenly
                        standing out with unnatural or preternatural distinctness.
                    "Yes, yes," she said, "and so you are going to be married?"
                    Mina looked up quickly, thinking that her grandmother was coming back to
                        reality at last.
                    "It is to be quite soon too," she put in hastily, as though to keep her
                        grandmother to the point. "When do you think, now?"
                    "Why, child, as if I didn't know that," she answered, nodding her head. "Is
                        not the wedding-dress ready and the bridal wreath prepared? Will not the
                        bridegroom be here soon?"
                    "Oh, Granny," said Mina, persisting, "I do so wish you could come and see all
                        the fine things that mother is getting for me. You wouldn't know me again in
                        them."
                    Her grandmother made no direct reply to this; but Presently she said, "Well,
                        it is getting late; I am a little tired, I should like to go to sleep."
                    So Emanuel, giving her his arm, supported her to the arm-chair, in which she
                        lay back, closing her eyes.
                    Mina now drew her lover into the porch, and begged him to go for a doctor,
                        with a white, piteous face.
                    "My darling," he said, "no doctor can do any good here—your grandmother is
                        not ill; but of course I will go at once to please you. But will you not be
                        frightened to be left alone here, under the circumstances? I cannot be back
                        before evening, you know."
                    "Frightened—oh no! Why should I be frightened?" cried Mina. "Granny will wake
                        up presently, and be quite herself again; don't you think so?"
                    
                    "Certainly, certainly, darling," said Emanuel; and after considering a
                        moment, seeing that there was nothing else to be done, he hurried off at
                        once, after tenderly embracing his betrothed.
                    Mina remained for some time standing in the porch, watching Emanuel go down
                        the hill at his quick, swinging pace. At the turning into the wood he looked
                        round and waved his hat.
                    Then she went back into the house, and sat down on a stool at her
                        grandmother's feet. She was sleeping very peacefully.
                    There was no sound but the loud ticking of the clock. Yes, and now a
                        robin-redbreast trilled out a glad, homely little song, as her alit on the
                        window-sill, where there were always crumbs for him in the wintertime.
                    For now the sun broke through the clouds; they swung back like the wings of a
                        colossal portal, and he gleamed in parting glory over leagues upon leagues
                        of mist-enshrouded land. Suddenly a breeze sprang up, and swept the mists,
                        like so many cobwebs, from off the face of valley and hill-side; then a
                        faint pink glow gradually suffused cloud after cloud, right up to the
                        zenith. But high in the east stood the full-moon, white and spectral, facing
                        the sunset. Long flights of crows, filling the air with their thick, husky
                        croaking, went flapping ponderously across the valley from east to west.
                    When the level sunbeams struck on the humble casement, till each pane of
                        glass flashed and burned again, the red chequer-work being reflected on the
                        wall opposite, Mina, to her great relief, saw her grandmother  open her eyes. With a long, thirsty look, as
                        though she were drinking in the light, her gaze dwelt on the glowing orb
                        already half submerged; and when it suddenly went down, and her marigolds
                        closed their petals, she turned her face away with a long sigh, and leant
                        back in her chair again.
                    "Can I get you anything, Granny dear?" asked Mina, very gently; "a glass of
                        milk—or shall I make you a nice hot cup of coffee? or say, what would you
                        like?"
                    A faint smile lit up the aged face, and she put her tremulous hands on Mina's
                        head, as though to invoke a blessing on her; but she only said, almost in a
                        whisper, "Well, it is getting late; I am a little tired, I should like to go
                        to sleep;" and she closed her eyes.
                    It was getting dark and cold now, and Mina presently fetched a knitted
                        counterpane to cover her grandmother with, who was sound asleep again. She
                        then put some more wood on the fire, drew the curtain, and lit the small
                        oil-lamp; and sitting down on the stool, with her back resting against her
                        grandmother's knees, she went to sleep too.
                    By and by, however, she woke with a start, and an unaccountable sense of
                        cold. Some noise had disturbed her; but she found it was only the raven, who
                        was uneasily scraping the floor with one foot, with a hoarse, unearthly
                        croaking such as he but rarely uttered.
                    "Well, you poor old miser of a Mugin," she said; "and can't it remember then
                        at all where it hid that toothsome tit-bit away! but never mind, Mina will
                        give it another."
                    Mugin treated the remark with cold disdain, and scraped away all the
                        harder.
                    
                    Mina now rose to her feet, stretching her arms, for her cramped position had
                        made them quite stiff.
                    "I never knew Granny sleep like this before," she said; and then she bent
                        over her and said in a low voice, so as not to startle her, "Why, Granny,
                        wake up!" and she took one of her hands in her own. But she dropped it with
                        a low, startled cry, and it fell back like a stone.
                    "Granny, Granny!" cried Mina; and she shook her grandmother violently by the
                        shoulders. "Wake up, wake up—you have slept over long, grandmother."
                    But the tired lids never unclosed, only the head drooped forward
                        helplessly.
                    "Emanuel, Emanuel!" Mina called out wildly, as she rushed to the door and
                        threw it open; and her cry echoed far through the dark, silent night.
                    Then she ran back to the chair: it was all a mistake, she must have been
                        dreaming; and she clasped her grandmother in her arms. As she did so, her
                        heart gave an instinctive shudder—she knew that she was alone with the
                        dead.
                    Alone with the dead all alone, on the lonely hill-side, in the dark night—it
                        was an awful thought! Mina buried her head in her hands and wept; but the
                        love that she had borne the dead woman cast out her fear.
                    
                    She did not know how long it was before the sound of footsteps roused her
                        from her silent weeping.
                    When Emanuel returned at last with the doctor, and saw the pale, tear-stained
                        face, he knew how it was.
                    The two men almost forced her out of the room; but when the doctor had gone
                        back to it, Emanuel said—
                    
                    "We should not grieve, my love—we should rather be thankful that so sweet a
                        soul has passed so sweetly away. Why, it was sympathy with your happiness
                        that was too much for the old heart! Remember what a long, long life she had
                        had, and let us pray that ours, if not as long, may be as kindly a one!"
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER XXXIX.
                    THE SNOW-BRIDE.
                    WITH very red cheeks, and blue noses, and mottled hands of mixed red and
                        blue, the children were having a fine time of it in the garden on this cold
                        winter's morning, when you could see their breaths rising up through the air
                        like smoke from so many chimneys. They were very hard at work indeed, much
                        harder than they would ever have been in school-hours. But were they not
                        shaping something with their own hands, mimicking the world around them; in
                        short, were they not making a bride of snow?—one that should take the shine
                        out of the real one too, with the superior charms of her immaculate
                        beauty!
                    And what an inborn passion in the tiniest mortal, as well as in the very
                        greatest amongst men, is this that he shall make something after his own
                        image!
                    To become even as one of the gods themselves, and create a world in little;
                        to produce on a small scale a  copy of the
                        great order of things; or, better still, a corrected and revised version of
                        the same—an "edition de luxe" in short, with all the mistakes eliminated,
                        and copious foot-notes annexed in elucidation of obscure passages in the
                        original text.
                    And this playing of children, ay, or of kittens or puppies, is it not a kind
                        of rudimentary art? Or art itself, what is it but the highest kind of play?
                        The imagination having ceased to minister to the mere needs of the body,
                        making a lofty sport of life itself; and by compressing its varied
                        manifestations within a narrow compass, giving it that completeness of form,
                        that perfection, which man seeks in vain to grasp in the labyrinthine
                        profusion of existence with which nature astounds, bewilders, and dazzles
                        him by turns!
                    These children, however, though they were German children, were not yet given
                        to theorize about their enjoyments, but simply enjoyed themselves and asked
                        no questions. And there was no doubt that they thoroughly did enjoy what
                        they were about. For were they not at that instant glowing with the
                        inspiration of the poet, the painter, the sculptor, all in one? bodying
                        forth their conception of beauty in the most ideal of all matter, matter
                        heaven-descended that very morning, and with only one drawback to it, a
                        serious one perhaps—that of being even more frail than the bloom on beauty's
                        cheek itself.
                    But what of that? Thee young artificers did not vex themselves as yet with
                        questions as to the possible durability of their work; they were far too
                        much engrossed in the workmanship itself, in the delicious sensation of
                        seeing something being shaped under their hands.
                    
                    Wolfgang was the master-spirit: he kneaded and patted and modelled away with
                        his thumb and forefinger, after Hans, his assistant on this occasion, had
                        built up the figure in the rough, as though he had passed all his life in a
                        sculptor's studio, and seen him manipulating the wet clay; while Conrad and
                        Otto, approving themselves docile pupils for once, brought the fresh snow as
                        it was wanted; and even Lulu, who, with much puffing and panting, carried a
                        tiny handful now and then, was treated with amiable condescension.
                    "But what sort of eyes will you give her, Wolf?" asked Hans, standing at a
                        little distance and regarding their handiwork with great self-complacency,
                        while his brother, working away at the nose, was trying to model it as well
                        as he could after that Grecian pattern which he had learned, in the
                        drawing-class. "Shall I get you charcoal—I like black eyes best, don't you?
                        And won't they look splendid with her white face! Why, it'll make Minchen
                        jealous to see her, for she hasn't got such coal-black eyes, or such a white
                        skin either."
                    The boys were so absorbed in their handiwork that they were quite startled at
                        the explosion of laughter which followed on this remark.
                    "Oh, Herr Sturm, Herr Sturm has come back!" shouted Otto and Lulu, bounding
                        across the snow towards Emanuel. He and his betrothed had been standing
                        there unobserved for some minutes watching the growth of the
                        snow-maiden.
                    After many greetings and kisses had been exchanged, for he was a great
                        favourite with the children, he said banteringly: "So you think, do you,
                        that Mina will be jealous of this lovely effigy, this moon-faced maiden,  who will have the blackest eyes ever seen
                        in anybody's head yet!"
                    "No, no," said Wolfgang, scornfully, "I'm not thinking of charcoal—it's such
                        a common dodge that!" Then, turning to Lulu with an unusually coaxing tone
                        of voice, he said, "But I know who's going to let me have two of those round
                        blue beads that she has round her neck, like a little good fellow that she
                        is."
                    Lulu's underlip drooped considerably at mention of her darling blue beads,
                        and she sidled nearer to the musician, thinking he would shield her from
                        those more violent measures that her brothers were wont to resort to when
                        gentler means had failed.
                    "But, boys, study your model a little more closely before putting in the
                        finishing touches," said Emanuel, gaily, as he placed Mina next to the snow
                        image that was now finished all save the eyes. "I wouldn't exchange, Hans,
                        though yours is certainly a heaven-descended bride."
                    It was an odd contrast, this snow-image and the blooming young girl, who
                        looked more exquisitely lovely than usual just then.
                    She had left off her mourning for her grandmother, and wore a soft cloud-blue
                        merino, with a waistband confined by a magnificent enamelled buckle, one of
                        the many gifts of her intended; her neck was covered with a salmon-coloured
                        china-crape fichu with long fringes, but her pretty, girlish arms were
                        perfectly bare, in spite of the five degrees Reaumur. The keen air and her
                        over-brimming happiness had heightened those soft, ever-changing carnations
                        of her face, that came and went like the flush on an evening cloud, while
                        the  bright sunshine, catching the loose,
                        curling rings that clustered so luxuriantly about her temples, gave them a
                        glow as of red copper—but the shining of her eyes was beyond all
                        description.
                    "Eh, Wolf, where will you get such another pair of eyes?" asked Emanuel; "I
                        think to match them you'll have to clamber up that mythical beanstalk, you
                        know, and steal a pair of the golden Pleiades themselves; or maybe, if you
                        only utter the proper incantation, a couple of shooting stars will lodge
                        themselves in her head of their own accord. But in the meanwhile perhaps
                        these will do as a makeshift," he said, unfastening a pair of turquoise
                        shirt-studs which, with his fine taste, he would have scorned to have worn
                        had they not been the gift of a Viennese imperial princess; and he stuck
                        them in himself.
                    The snow-bride now stood forth complete, and the children, delighted with the
                        general effect, clapped their hands and began gleefully dancing round her in
                        a ring. Emanuel and Mina laughingly joined them, and the former improvised
                        the following lines, which he sang to a tune of his own— 
                            
                                "Snow-bride, Snow-bride,
                                Raised in an hour,
                                Fairer than a flower;
                                Wouldst thou abide,
                                Beware the sun's power!
                            
                            
                                The moon is for the bride,
                                Its silver is her dower;
                                But the flame-god, the pride
                                Of the tall sunflower,
                                Will melt thee in an hour!"
                            
                        
                    
                    Emanuel had only returned on the preceding evening, and this was a Tuesday,
                        the day before Christmas. He had been absent nearly two months, giving from
                        fifty to sixty concerts within that short space of time. His tour through
                        Germany had resembled a triumphal progress; and especially in Vienna, where
                        he had gained his first great success, the enthusiasm reached a pitch
                        bordering on frenzy. In their transports of admiration the people vied with
                        each other as to who should split the greatest number of kid gloves in his
                        honour, and his portrait was to be bought in every imaginable and
                        unimaginable shape, even to figuring on cheap pocket-handkerchiefs or on
                        gingerbread.
                    Being but a mortal after all, he looked rather fatigued after his musical
                        campaign, and said half-laughingly to Sontheim, "Many such victories, and I
                        am undone."
                    He was already bound to appear in London at one of the Philharmonic Concerts
                        on the 8th of January, 1847, so that he had stipulated the marriage should
                        take place on Christmas Day itself, in order that he might have about a
                        fortnight he could call his own for the honeymoon.
                    In spite of the confusion into which the preparations for the impending
                        wedding had thrown the family, Emanuel had managed, by hook or by crook, to
                        get Mina all to himself in a quiet corner for a few hours that morning,
                        though every now and then she was pounced upon by her mother, who was
                        flaring all over the place that day.
                    And the dinner was dished up, and the children all came in with sparkling
                        eyes, in high feather at the success of their morning's work. After dinner
                        in walked  Professor Sontheim and his
                        sister, to have a last look at Mina before the eventful morrow. Frau Scherer
                        was immediately carried off by Frau Lichtenfeld to inspect the dresses, and
                        the presents, and the preparations for the wedding breakfast, and all the
                        thousand and one things which so important an event brings with it. All hope
                        of further privacy for that day was clearly at an end.
                    "And where will you be off to to-morrow, you people?" inquired Sontheim,
                        after having presented his god-daughter with a complete set of her father's
                        philological and mythological works, which on this occasion appeared for the
                        first time nicely bound in a collected form, presenting quite a respectable
                        appearance This attention to a neglected scholar's researches afforded Mina
                        more genuine pleasure than the costliest gift would have done.
                    "Oh," cried Emanuel, "would I could carry Mina off with me this minute
                        without further ado! All this fuss irritates and worries me more than I can
                        say; when we have got safely over to-morrow a load. will be taken off my
                        mind. I have still to go to Ludwigslust this afternoon, as I promised the
                        Grand Duke I would play there for an hour; then I dare say I shall have to
                        be sitting up half the night to finish a fantasia for the violin which was
                        advertised for Christmas, and for which my publishers are clamouring."
                    Frau Lichtenfeld, who had returned, pricked up her ears at this, exclaiming:
                        "Sit up half the night, Herr Sturm! And to-morrow your wedding! Why you will
                        not be fit to be married—and it oughtn't to be allowed, ought it, my dear
                        Frau Scherer?"
                    
                    "Ah," sighed the latter, casting a deeply sentimental look at Emanuel, "no
                        doubt Herr Sturm is in the first instance wedded to his art, and finds the
                        celestial bride more exacting than any mortal maiden!"
                    "Why, Pauline," exclaimed Frau Lichtenfeld, testily, "what are you talking
                        about? It's—it's—it's almost like insinuating that Herr Sturm is a
                        bigamist."
                    Emanuel started slightly, then broke into a merry laugh, turning to Mina
                        with, "Nay, I hope you and she will love each other like the twin-sisters
                        you are."
                    His betrothed only replied with a look of the fullest comprehension, but her
                        mother shook her head discontentedly as she said—
                    "It's a bad habit, that sitting up of nights, Herr Sturm—a sadly wasteful
                        habit, howsoever you look at it; and if Mina were only of my ways of
                        thinking she would leave you no peace till she had broken you of it, for, as
                        I could prove to you, it hastened the death of her deceased——"
                    "But my dear Frau Professorinn," Frau Scherer said, interrupting her, eager
                        to vindicate a character for æsthetic culture, "you don't take into
                        consideration what the throes of musical composition must be, and that the
                        artist, no doubt, needs the deep solitude of midnight to gather these
                        blooming flowers sprouting in the gardens of——"
                    "Of course, of course," cried Frau Lichtenfeld, impatiently, "I know what's
                        what as well as other people—it's like a dream, that's what it is! And I
                        never was more annoyed than one night on waking suddenly from a dream so
                        life-like that I thought to myself, 'Well now, Elise Lichtenfeld, there's
                        something to be made of that.'"
                    
                    Sontheim, who had been turning over the leaves of one of the books he had
                        brought, here said bluntly, raising his head—
                    "Wonder of wonders! you, too, set up for a dreamer or a fashioner of dreams,
                        my worthy old neighbour? Well, that whets my curiosity! Let's hear whether
                        fat cows and lean cows have any part in your midnight visions!"
                    "Oh, you know," replied the good woman, complacently, "once I dreamed that I
                        was making a pudding—quite a new kind of pudding, and it smelt so very nice,
                        that if only Lulu had not woke me up just then—she was cutting one of her
                        back teeth and very fretful, poor pet—I declare I could have mixed it in the
                        exact quantities. And the other day, why if I didn't dream that I was
                        trimming a bonnet for Mina; such a sweet, pretty bonnet it was, the colour
                        of the ribbons, and the shape and the velvet—nothing could have been more
                        genteel if I had sent all the way to Paris for it. So when I woke up I went
                        out and bought everything to match the dream; but ah, bless you, it wouldn't
                        turn out quite as lovely—though everybody who sees it says to me, 'Why, my
                        dear Frau Professorinn, where did you get that charming, that most becoming
                        of bonnets from?' But you shall judge for yourselves, for my daughter will
                        travel in it to-morrow."
                    Emanuel, Sontheim, Frau Scherer, all laughed, and begged for a sight of this
                        dream-bonnet; only Mina was so absorbed in her own sweet thoughts that she
                        had not heeded what was being said, till suddenly admonished by her mother
                        to hold up her chin for once like a rational creature.
                    
                    While in the act of tying on the broad, claret-coloured strings, Frau
                        Lichtenfeld suddenly started, ejaculating, "Ach Gott! if there isn't Otto
                        and Lulu howling now; it will be the death of me, it will, if there's a
                        mishap to-day of all days in the year. What—what shall I do if Lulu has
                        broken her shin or dislocated her hip with sliding on the ice, though I
                        forbade her doing so!" and with these words she scuttled wildly downstairs,
                        anxiously followed by the rest of the party.
                    When they got to the back door they heard Hans saying dolefully, "Be quiet,
                        will you, you little simpleton; crying won't mend broken bones again, you
                        know."
                    "There, there, I knew how it would be!" cried Frau Lichtenfeld, in shrill
                        dismay. "Mercy upon us, what's broken? who's broken——?"
                    "It's her head," whispered Otto.
                    "Her head!" screamed Frau Lichtenfeld, as she pounced down among them in wild
                        affright; and seizing the sobbing Lulu in her arms examined her all over as
                        she asked, "Where is it then, my precious pet? tell me, where is it?"
                    "Oh," said Hans, in a tone of voice as if that would have been but a small
                        grievance, "nothing's the matter with her—it's our snow-girl that's lost her
                        head, don't you see?"
                    "It's the wicked, wicked sun that's done it," said Conrad, biting his nails
                        with vexation.
                    "The wicked, wicked sun," echoed Otto, wrathfully, looking up at the dazzling
                        orb, who now in his noontide glory reasserted some of his old power by
                        making breaches in winter's trenches; for the snow was thawing here and
                        dripping there from some of the projecting  spouts and most exposed twigs of trees. And thus it had happened that the
                        snow-maiden, which the children had shaped with such pains and enthusiasm,
                        was already minus her head.
                    While the elders of the party were joking about the momentary confusion thus
                        engendered, Frau Lichtenfeld, with her usual practicality, darted on the
                        shirt-studs of the virtuoso amid the fallen snow, and restored them to their
                        owner, saying—
                    "Did any one ever hear of such reckless waste! A Princess's gifts given to
                        children, like sugar-plums!" and she ordered them to be replaced in his
                        shirt. He submitted to this with the better grace as Mina herself proceeded
                        to do it.
                    In spite of the general merriment, a shade of apprehension momentarily
                        clouded Emanuel's mind, and through his laughter it continued to obtrude
                        itself. For, like most men of that type, he had a strain of superstition in
                        his blood, and he felt a presage of evil on seeing the effigy of his
                        betrothed thus speedily dissolving in the rays of the sun.
                    As he looked towards Mina he felt a yearning impulse to seize her in his
                        protecting arms, and carry her off then and there to his little house in the
                        park, and let no one so much as look at her again. She was just then
                        administering consolation to her rueful brothers and sister. It was charming
                        to see her gathering them about her, and on the spur of the moment inventing
                        a tale to divert their attention. As it is very short, it may be given here
                        as illustrating that quality of airy fancy which was part of her nature.
                    "You must know," she said, addressing her little  circle of listeners, "that the sun and moon were
                        once rivals courting the earth for their bride at the same time. And the
                        sun, shaking uncounted gold in the earth's lap, promised to make her the
                        envy of all her sister planets if she would lend a favouring ear to his
                        suit. But when the moon saw the green-girdled earth dimpling with smiles
                        through her crocuses and daffodils, while with white-lashed daisies she
                        looked up at her fiery lover, he grew thinner and thinner, till with
                        constant pining he came to be so mere a shadow that you could see the blue
                        sky through his body.
                    "At this sad sight the earth felt a great pity come over her for this poor,
                        waning fellow, and would have herself cut into halves by the aid of a
                        sorceress so that the sun and moon might each have part of her. But ever
                        since then there has been enmity between the sun and the moon: and all that
                        is strong, lusty, and resplendent, sides with the sun; but everything fair,
                        frail, and fleeting follows in the footsteps of the wandering moon.
                    "So you see, dears, the snow, and all the fairy forms fashioned by the
                        frost-spirit in the pale moonbeams, must hide from the fierce sun, or be
                        shot through with his burning arrows."
                    After Sontheim and his sister had taken leave, and been accompanied by Frau
                        Lichtenfeld to the front door, Emanuel remained listening to Mina's little
                        story with the pleasure of a boy.
                    Aided by Wolf he had been quickly restoring the snow-bride's head, making it
                        even better than before, to the delight of the children, who now, however,
                        had to go in to their milk and coffee, the lovers still lingering in the
                        garden loth to part.
                    
                    "To-morrow at this time we shall be bowling along the road to Avignon, my own
                        one," said Emanuel, pressing Mina to his heart as he bade her good-bye. It's
                        an age till to-morrow that I have to leave you, but thenceforth we part no
                        more."
                    The leave-taking in the garden was such a very protracted affair, that Frau
                        Lichtenfeld, popping her head out of the window, loudly admonished Mina to
                        come into the house at once, or that she would catch her death of cold
                        before she was well married and all.
                    Reluctantly, with many mutual longing looks back, Emanuel at last tore
                        himself away, and Mina rejoined her mother.
                    The snow-bride, left alone in the early gathering twilight, became gradually
                        tinged with a pale, pink glow, as if warmed and kindled into a transient
                        life of her own. The lower part of the figure did not catch those rays, and
                        being perfectly without shadow amid the surrounding snow, imparted to it an
                        appearance of floating amid air instead of standing on a solid base.
                    Sometimes the very commonest object will catch from surrounding associations
                        a beauty that does not properly belong to it; and thus, in the fleeting of
                        the short winter sunset, this snow image, though but the work of a few
                        children, might have stood forth to the poetic Germanic mind which
                        originated the idea as the symbol of an immaculate bride. Pride of an hour,
                        spotless bride of snow, will she linger even till her prototype is a bride
                        indeed—a delighted and delighting bride? Or will they seek and find her no
                        more when to-morrow's sun shall brighten the world?
                    Symbol of human happiness, will she have vanished,  alas, as though she had never been? Softly it
                        stole on us as though wafted from above, as snow is—a fair gift of the great
                        gods themselves.
                    Unawares, under our hands it took unto itself a radiant form, even unto the
                        uttermost of the heart's desire. Shall we, shall we still find it when we
                        would take it to our home to be unto us a daily joy, a perennial delight; or
                        will it have passed away, vanished without a trace, even as the
                        snow-image—the pride of an hour?
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER XL.
                    THE TRUE TARANTULA.
                    "IF you follow my advice, Mina," said her mother when their friends had all
                        gone, "you will go straight up to your room—and why not to bed too? though
                        it's a little early maybe; but what's the odds when the daylight's gone, I
                        should like to know! For you've lost your colour again, and if there's one
                        thing I can't abide, it's a bride that looks as if she had been rolled in
                        flour as she goes up to the altar, just as though it was her own funeral she
                        was walking after. Upon my soul, if that wasn't exactly the way your aunt
                        Anna looked on the day she was married to Peter Knorr, the rich goldsmith
                        (such a good match as it was too, and when he had given her a set of the
                        handsomest diamonds you'd ever wish to set eyes on, though a trifle
                        old-fashioned in the setting, I don't deny); but the poor thing she died the
                        year after in childbirth, and so perhaps it isn't to be wondered at after
                        all. And what a crying shame it was that the  money wasn't kept in the connexion; but, with the
                        usual luck of the Lichtenfelds, if Elfrida mustn't go into a decline just
                        when it was whispered that her father had already arranged a brilliant match
                        for her. Well, well, but as I was saying, Mina, though it may be a trifle
                        early, it's the sleep before midnight that puts the best rouge on a girl's
                        cheeks, you know. And there'll be nobody to disturb you again, for I must go
                        out presently and do all my marketing for the christmas-tree still—for the
                        children won't be balked of that; and instead of to-night they shall have it
                        tomorrow when you're gone, so they must go to bed extra early, as Sabina has
                        her hands quite full enough in the kitchen: so you wont be disturbed again
                        if you go up now, and I'll call you early to-morrow morning."
                    Though it was in truth only half-past four in the afternoon, Mina was at any
                        rate quite willing to retire to her own room. The day had been an exciting
                        one for her, and though young and strong, her nature was so delicately
                        strung, and vibrated so sensitively to every influence, that of late she had
                        sometimes shown slight symptoms of an overwrought nervous system, so that
                        Emanuel had once or twice playfully called her "his other violin."
                    She therefore bade her mother a more than usually affectionate "good-night,"
                        saying that she felt in need of rest and quiet, though she mightn't go to
                        bed just yet; and then she slipped away.
                    And once again—as on that afternoon in the sweet spring-time when the
                        swallows came home to their nests, now choked up with the snow—Mina was all
                        alone in her chamber; that ivy-curtained maiden-chamber,  with its narrow bed and plain furniture, in
                        which, though no flowers were now to be seen, there yet lingered a ghost of
                        perfume as of the spirit of all sweet flowers dead.
                    Instead of sitting down to rest, however, Mina moved about softly, now taking
                        up this thing, now that—for to her a thousand and one memories clung to
                        these heterogeneous knick-knacks and old, well-worn books, that she handled
                        so tenderly. For was she not bidding good-bye to her girlhood, as it were,
                        in this room which was to be hers for the last time that night—for there,
                        spread out in state, lay the white bridal dress, with its wreath of orange
                        blossoms and costly lace veil.
                    And the world without,too, was white and spotless even as the bridal dress
                        that was to clothe the limbs of the young bride.
                    There stood the old pear-tree, decked out in festive wreaths as in her
                        honour; but instead of a bridal wreath of blossoms, his gnarled and twisted
                        branches were garlanded with the barren blossoms of the snow. And all along
                        the garden ways, and on the grass, and far away to where the hills stood out
                        with sharp-cut outlines against the crystal clearness of the sky, lay the
                        immaculate snow, just touched with a faint ghostly blue as of meandering
                        veins.
                    For the last time, Mina scattered some bread-crumbs on the window-ledge for
                        the poor starving birds. Then with a swelling heart, moved at once by a
                        tender retrospect and a blissful anticipation, she fell on her knees by the
                        bedside, and covering her face with her hands, gathered her life as if it
                        were a flower to give into the hands of her beloved.
                    
                    The divinest poems perchance are those that were never penned, hardly
                        whispered into a kindred ear.
                    "I think I am too happy!" sighed Mina, as her whole soul went forth in an
                        intense though voiceless prayer, while dwelling on the new life that would
                        dawn for her, and which filled her at once with ecstasy and dread. "What
                        have I done, what shall I do to deserve such happiness!" And still, while
                        she longed for the hour that should unite her for ever to the man she loved,
                        she again wished inconsistently that she could postpone the day
                        indefinitely.
                    For, strangely enough, happiness when it has reached its utmost limit verges
                        on pain; just as in pain when it can go no further, there is a bitter-sweet
                        residuum of luxury which at once benumbs and intoxicates the brain.
                    While Mina was thus completely absorbed in devout and rapturous thought,
                        there came a knock at her door, which she did not hear; but she quickly rose
                        on being startled by a footstep on the floor. Then she uttered a little
                        cry.
                    Was it, could it be her friend the Countess in the flesh who stood there
                        dimly discernible in the half-light which still lingered owing to the
                        reflection from the bright snow without?
                    Mina stood for the moment rooted to the spot with surprise; in the next, she
                        had thrown her arms round her friend's neck in her sweet, affectionate way,
                        and was kissing her with glad effusion. In her joy she hardly noticed
                        whether her kisses were returned or not.
                    "And is it you, is it really you?" she cried; "what a wonderful coincidence
                        you should return on this of all days of the year!"
                    
                    The Countess, freeing herself from her embrace, said—
                    "You must really excuse my unceremonious entrance, Mina; but as there was no
                        one to answer the bell anywhere about the premises, apparently, I had to let
                        myself in, and then walked straight up, as I knew the place, thinking to
                        find you here. For you don't know how much I wanted to see you—indeed I only
                        arrived a few hours ago. But, Mina, I think you must have grown, child. Why,
                        you look quite beautiful! And so they tell me you are going to be married!
                        Is it true?"
                    "Yes, to-morrow," answered Mina, with a sweet, shy, and yet proud look; "do
                        you know to whom, dear Countess?"
                    "Ah, do you know to whom, Mina?" echoed the latter in so low a voice that it
                        was easy to misunderstand her, fiddling with a ring on her finger, the very
                        opal ring which had been sent her by Mina a short time back.
                    Mina opened her eyes to their widest for a moment, and then she burst into
                        that blithe, silvery laugh of hers, gladder than any lark's song just now,
                        as she answered—
                    "I beg your pardon, I don't think I quite heard what you said."
                    "To be sure, to be sure," murmured the visitor in the same low voice,
                        slipping the ring from her finger as she asked, "Do you recognize that
                        ring?"
                    "Recognize it," said Mina, "yes, of course I do; it's the ring Lulu found in
                        the grass and that we sent you, thinking that no one but yourself could have
                        been quite  so careless as to lose
                        something so splendid, and precious, and costly as this is. And you never
                        even acknowledged having received it, dear Countess—but then mother said
                        that was so like the grand lady you were. Ah, I am very glad you have got it
                        all right, at any rate."
                    "But suppose it doesn't belong to me at all, Mina dear, what then?" asked her
                        friend.
                    "Dear me, why to whom can it possibly belong?" said Mina, half absently, as
                        her thoughts strayed back to Emanuel.
                    "Ah, do you know to whom?" asked the Countess, in the same subdued voice in
                        which she had hitherto spoken; but there was something so significant in her
                        tone that Mina, shaking her head, looked at her with puzzled eyes.
                    "Shall I tell you—would you like to know?" she went on with the same
                        insinuating softness; and then, without waiting for a reply, she suddenly
                        asked, "Is that the wedding dress hanging there? Why, one might take it for
                        a ghost in this light. Couldn't you let us have a candle, or a lamp, or
                        something of that sort, child?" she said, going close up to it, "for I
                        should like to see whether it's made after the latest Paris fashion."
                    While Mina set light to the wick of the oil lamp, for which she had herself
                        last Christmas made a gaily-coloured transparent shade, the Countess walked
                        to the window, threw it open, and, to Mina's surprise, who remembered her
                        detestation of cold, looked out on the wintry landscape. While she did so,
                        Mina fancied she heard her humming snatches of a wild, fantastic tune  that she seemed to have heard before; but
                        where, she could not recall.
                    "Ah, ah," muttered the Countess, as she closed the window with a little
                        shiver, and drawing a chair close to the small black oven that stood in the
                        corner, spread out her hands towards it, "things come to pass strangely,
                        very strangely; to think that on that evening I might have—but what a costly
                        veil that looks from here, child, do let me examine it near, for I have a
                        passion for anything in the shape of lace; from what I remember you were not
                        given to the indulgence of much finery once upon a time, Mina."
                    As the latter brought her friend the lovely gossamer texture of old
                        blond-lace, she said, blushing—
                    "He gave it to me, you know."
                    "Why, it must have cost a small fortune!" cried the Countess after looking at
                        it, and then she carelessly flung it on the back of her chair, with a
                        certain furtive gleaming of the eyes.
                    Mina was rather annoyed to see this dearly prized gift treated so cavalierly,
                        but without saying anything she removed it gently and carefully folded it
                        again; then sitting down on the edge of her bed opposite to her friend she
                        said warmly—
                    "And did you really come all that long, long way, in this weather, to be
                        present at my wedding, dearest Countess! I know you once said you would, but
                        it seems too, too kind—I can hardly believe it yet!"
                    "To be sure, to be sure, child," replied her friend, "it is the wedding
                        brought me here—what else should it be? But can you guess who the little
                        bird was that first gave me an inkling of it?—for you know you never  sent me the news for all your
                        protestations of undying friendship."
                    Mina looked a trifle guilty as she stammered—
                    "He couldn't bear it spoken about more than we could possibly help; and
                        knowing you to be in such trouble too, I hardly liked intruding my happiness
                        upon you at such a time"—and she glanced at her visitor's sable dress, and
                        hardly knew how to express sympathy concerning a loss about which she was so
                        much in the dark.
                    The Countess, answering her look, said—
                    "Yes, I am in mourning for the man whose name I bear; but let us not talk of
                        funerals when a wedding is at hand," she said, in a voice that grated
                        strangely on Mina's ear; "what I wanted to tell you was that the little bird
                        that whispered the first news of what was brewing here was this identical
                        ring."
                    "The ring!" echoed Mina, getting more and more puzzled as she looked from the
                        opal ring which the Countess was holding to the light of the lamp to the
                        latter; "how is it possible?" Then shaking her head with a sweet laugh she
                        cried, "Ah, I see, you think I am as big a child as ever, with my head full
                        of nothing but witches and fairies and stories of that sort; but you
                        know"—in a profoundly serious tone—"I have grown so much, much older than I
                        was when you were here. What we feel and think, maybe, stretches time out to
                        such a great length, or dwarfs it to something quite insignificant, and
                        within these past months I have come to know the two deepest things we can
                        conceive perhaps, love and—death."
                    At those last words Mina's eyes shone with a rapt, inward light, almost as
                        though her innocent gaze fathomed mysteries that perplex the wisest.
                    
                    "Death?" said the Countess, interrogatively, arching her eyebrows, "that is a
                        strange conjunction for a girl like you to think of."
                    "Yes," said Mina, hardly heeding the interruption, "my dear grandmother
                        passed away from us in the beginning of November, and no one but myself was
                        with her at the time. And to feel what was alive even now stricken all at
                        once into something that cannot hear us or see us, what a shock, oh what a
                        dreadful shock that is!"
                    Then, as though suddenly recollecting herself, she quickly got down from the
                        bed, and coming to the side of her friend, put her arm tenderly round her as
                        she said—
                    "But you, dearest lady—forgive me—what must have been your feelings, when so
                        natural a loss as mine was still so affecting!"
                    But the Countess somewhat impatiently said—
                    "There, there, Mina, I am not sentimental; I don't profess that there was any
                        love lost between me and the Count—at least on my side. But for a girl on
                        the eve of her marriage to talk of the death of her grandmother could only
                        happen in this fatherland of yours, I believe, where you are all overflowing
                        with what you call gemüth. Well, I am glad
                        of it, very glad; but we of the passionate south love after a different
                        fashion."
                    This cynical speech grated sorely upon Mina. She could not somehow make the
                        ideal which she had fashioned of her friend tally any longer with her actual
                        presence. Who of the two was altered, then? Her beauty was the only thing as
                        magnificent as even her imagination had pictured it.
                    
                    Not meaning to let any imputation rest upon her love, however, she said
                        softly: "I don't think true love makes us indifferent to other things. Since
                        I have known Em—him—I have loved everybody and everything in the wide world
                        better for his sake. I feel sometimes as though, if I only could, I would
                        shed my very blood to make others as blest as I am."
                    "These are fine words, fine words, Mina," said the Countess, with a slight
                        sneer; "but why did you falter just now when you were going to pronounce
                        Emanuel's name?"
                    Mina, with a resentful thrill, quickly raised her head, flushing to the roots
                        of her hair. She had never yet been able to summon resolution enough to
                        speak that name of names to any third person; and here was a woman who
                        pronounced it with an accent—in a tone—as if—
                    "Well, child," said the Countess, with a light laugh, tapping Mina on the
                        cheek, who, however, got up and moved farther off, "why do you colour and
                        look so indignant? May no one even utter his name but yourself? You forget,
                        my dear, that he is a public man, your beloved; and I dare say his Christian
                        name is as familiar to ladies' lips as his playing to their ears."
                    Here the Countess laughed, apparently so tickled by her own joke that it
                        seemed she would never give over, till the strange, mocking, hysterical fit
                        sounded more dreadful than the wildest sobbing could have done. At last, as
                        though by a violent effort, she stopped herself, and rising from her seat
                        began walking to and fro.
                    Mina, who had stood looking at her in a bewildered  manner, now said, with an indignant trembling in
                        her voice, "I don't know what you mean, Countess?"
                    "Mean, child, mean!" cried the latter, getting more and more hilarious and
                        excited, as laying her hand on Mina's arm she almost forced her to walk up
                        and down the room beside her. "What should it mean but that I am
                        sympathetically moved with the thoughts of this wedding of yours? You are so
                        cold, you don't understand these violent emotions, you see."
                    But Mina, who just then caught sight of her gleaming eyes, almost felt as if
                        she would like to rush out of the room, and fly for ever from her dearest
                        friend. Then again she upbraided herself for this pusillanimity.
                    They had thus taken a few steps in silence, when the Countess, tightening her
                        clasp of Mina's arm a little, said: "I have wandered from my point again; I
                        meant to explain how this ring could whisper little things about little
                        people. Thereby hangs a tale, you see; and your sending it to me was
                        providential, no doubt."
                    On these last words she dwelt with lingering emphasis; and then suddenly
                        changing her tone to one almost imperious, she said: "Mina, look at me; you
                        are not observant, I know; but have you never tried to guess who I really
                        was—where I came from—what country I belonged to?"
                    Mina was indeed looking at her in wide-eyed astonishment as she said: "Why
                        should I try to guess where you came from, Countess, when it was from Odessa
                        you told me, I remember well; and also that——"
                    "And did you really believe all those figments?" cried the latter,
                        disdainfully. "Had you no eyes of your own, then, to find out my real
                        nationality from a  thousand indications?
                        Could you not see that I am South Italian, from the sole of my foot to the
                        crown of my head? Bah, what matter! You saw me dance once, I believe!" and
                        here she laughed more weirdly than before, and made a few steps as though
                        she would launch forth once more into those intoxicating motions—still
                        keeping hold of Mina's arm, however, who could not, without positive
                        violence, now have freed herself from her grasp; "do you remember? One
                        moonlight night it was, when I thought that I heard—nay, when I did hear—the
                        fragment of a tune to which my feet must move, though I lay on my death-bed,
                        I think."
                    Mina remembered the night well now, the night on which the great musician had
                        for the first time sung under her window; but she suddenly shivered as
                        though a current of the cold night-air had streamed in upon her.
                    "What I danced then, Mina, was the tarantella—his tarantella; do you
                        understand?"
                    "His tarantella," repeated Mina, mechanically. She remembered dreamily that
                        her betrothed was famous for the composition and playing of a tarantella,
                        which he had always, almost angrily, refused to play to her, however.
                    "Yes, his tarantella," said Antonella, walking, with ever quicker steps, up
                        and down the room; and clutching the poor girl's arm so fiercely now, that
                        she left the blue marks of her fingers in her flesh.
                    "Once I, a peasant girl of Capri, was bitten by a tarantula. It was in the
                        ruins of Tiberius; and you know that we ignorant peasant folk believe its
                        bite to be mortal, unless there is some one can play a tune to  us which will keep us spinning round and round
                        till we drop down with the fatigue of it. We, there happened then to be a
                        young violinist on the spot"—Mina's arm twitched slightly here—"a
                        half-starving, unknown violinist, who then played a tarantella, composed on
                        the spur of the moment, which saved my life and made his fame. And what was
                        the consequence, dear Mina, do you think, of the young musician saving the
                        young contadina's life?"
                    Antonella paused for a moment, and then went on hurriedly: "Why, that they
                        fell wildly, blindly in love with each other! And this ring here, do you
                        see—and with a sudden jerk she threw it from her, when falling on the floor
                        it went spinning round and round for several minutes like a top—why, the
                        contadina gave it to her lover, owing to a superstition about it, on the day
                        they got secretly married to one another!"
                    Mina gasped like one who is suffocating, and both her hands went suddenly to
                        her heart, as though she had been stung there; but then wrenching her arm
                        abruptly away, she confronted the Countess with flashing eyes, and
                        cried—
                    "No, no! You lie!"
                    She was like a person transformed all at once; her shrinking timidity, her
                        girlish softness, were gone; like some desperate animal at bay she faced the
                        speaker, and there was a superb thrill of passion and pride in the nostrils
                        as she panted, rather than said, even more defiantly than before—
                    "You lie!"
                    "Softly, softly, though anger becomes you mightily," said Antonella, not
                        without astonishment measuring  the girl,
                        who eyed her unflinchingly, as though she would look her through and through
                        and dare her to repeat her words.
                    "Not so meek as it would have one think," sneered the Countess, "though it
                        does speak of shedding its blood for the happiness of people in general; but
                        when it comes to particulars that's quite another thing, always. Let me tell
                        you, my dear, that it is not polite to give people the lie direct; and at
                        any rate suffer me to tell my tale in my own manner.
                    "I said we were married—but about that there's a doubt, maybe! That was a
                        slip of the tongue, or i another kind of slip—never mind now; for I
                        married—legally or illegally, I don't know which—the Russian prince who,
                        while I was living with Emanuele, offered me rank, lands, boundless wealth,
                        everything in short that I then thought in my vanity would make a woman like
                        me happy.
                    "Ah, Mina"—and she dropped her voice to one of soft entreaty—"little did I
                        then know what it is to have sucked in a passion with tones that were
                        powerful enough to bring you back from the very brink of the grave itself!
                        Think me, if you will, wicked, and deceitful, and treacherous, and a
                        criminal, everything that's bad under the sun—but one thing be sure of, that
                        no one can ever in this world love Emanuele as I love him; nay, more, that
                        he, too, never will, never can, by any possibility, ever love another woman,
                        in this world as he loved me. Loved?—ah, still loves, and ever must, I
                        say!"
                    Mina was trembling all over now like a person in an ague; but with desperate
                        self-command she said, looking  the
                        Countess once more full in the face, while her own was almost the colour of
                        ashes, "Oh how unhappy you must have made him, then, if he loved you as you
                        say, and yet you went from him!"
                    "Unhappy," repeated Antonella, "I believe you! Did he not hunt me all over
                        the world till he found me again! But I, was I less unhappy, girl? Nay more,
                        more—the thought of Emanuele was like a thirst, a very fever within me. It
                        was in vain Count Ogotshki took me to the gayest capitals in Europe, that I
                        frequented the highest society, that I dressed superbly, that whatever
                        wealth could offer was at my feet—still I sickened and fell into long fits
                        of death-like lethargy, from which nothing but music, his music, could rouse
                        me. At last he succeeded in tracing me to Paris, where we then resided.
                        Shall I describe what followed? The delirious passion, which he avowed to me
                        nothing could stifle——
                    "No, I will spare you! Mina, how shouldst thou understand such passion as
                        there is betwixt us? You are but a child, nothing but a child, after all.
                        You suffer at present, but it will pass over; but I—this love is bone of my
                        bone, flesh of my flesh, you see!
                    "Do you think he would ever have left me, child? Never, Mina, never, had I
                        not forced him at the last, yea implored him on my knees, to leave me, for
                        fear of Count Ogotshki, who was beginning to have his suspicions. Then, from
                        wounded pride, anger, spite, despair—well, no doubt you can guess the
                        feelings which might hurry him into sudden marriage with another.
                    "There, read that! You know his handwriting!  Read—and ask yourself whether he ever wrote to you in such a strain."
                    And she placed a letter in Mina's hands. It was one of those madly
                        impassioned notes which he used to send her at one time. And to Mina, when
                        with her burning eyes she could at last make out the letters, it seemed,
                        indeed, as though he had never written to her in such a vein as this. She
                        was too inexperienced to distinguish between such passion and the true love
                        with which she had inspired and reclaimed him. A kind of numbness was
                        creeping over her faculties. The will of the woman before her was gradually
                        overshadowing hers. For a moment as she read those scorching words,
                        jealousy, like a hot iron, entered her inmost heart; for a moment she could
                        have turned upon the woman before her and rent her to pieces, but she only
                        convulsively wrung her hands together even to soreness, and then, with a
                        supreme effort over herself, she at last said—each slow word wrung, as it
                        were, from her dry throat—
                    "Oh what—what—would you have—me do? I will do—whatever—is best—for his
                        happiness!"
                    "And can you doubt, child; can you doubt?" whispered Antonella. "I am free
                        now, remember; and with the woman he has loved all his life, he will get,
                        besides, the wealth and station of a prince! Would you deprive him of all
                        that, because in a moment of pique he chose to get engaged to you?"
                    "But," stammered Mina, throwing out her hands as though she were groping in
                        the dark, "it must rest with Emanuel;" and with a glimmer of hope stealing
                        over her ashy countenance, she said, "He is free to  choose! Let nothing bind him to me if it is you
                        he prefers; my happiness is as nothing in comparison with his. Go, go, let
                        him know you are free—now—at once——"
                    "Fool," almost hissed the Countess, "fool or hypocrite——" and then with a
                        sudden change of voice to a tenderness not quite assumed, "Forgive me,
                        child, forgive me, I am almost mad!
                    "But do you not see, can you not comprehend, that Emanuele is a man of high
                        honour—though once, maybe, his passion for me was too strong even for that!
                        Do you think he will ever break his word to you of his own accord, and at
                        the eleventh hour, too! Little do you know him then, it seems! Do you not
                        see that the very fact that he might marry infinitely more advantageously
                        now would deter him from such a step. No, no; if you would act nobly you
                        must give him up freely, of your own accord—never let him know the sacrifice
                        it's been—never let him see you with such a look as now——"
                    And then this woman flung herself all at once at the feet of the girl, and,
                        writhing on the ground, cried wildly: "You used to say once that you loved
                        me, Mina; that there was nothing in the world you would not do for me. Now
                        the supreme hour has come—I am free once more; and were he who is my all—ah,
                        if you take him from me, take my life too—say so, and——" With a gesture
                        quick as lightning she drew a small dagger from her bosom, and brandishing
                        it above her head, cried: "Nay, turn not so deadly pale—what is it but a
                        prick after all! Only say so, and I swear, by all I hold sacred, I swear
                        that the moment I know I will plunge this blade in my bosom, here before
                        your eyes."
                    
                    She looked almost mad. Mina, expecting every moment to see the steel in her
                        breast, flung herself in a frenzy of fear on the arm of Antonella, who with
                        her wildly glittering eyes looked indeed capable of committing any deed of
                        violence.
                    But the latter, shaking her off, cried: "Promise, promise that you will not
                        part us, now that after long years we may come together at last. Promise, or
                        I will never leave this room alive."
                    Mina, in a voice that was hardly articulate, said, or rather breathed, "I
                        promise," and her head drooped forward as though life itself were forsaking
                        her; then she made a feeble sign with her hand as though to bid the Countess
                        leave her room.
                    But the latter, who had risen to her feet, now cried, "Noble soul, I knew how
                        you would act!" and advanced a step as though she could have clasped the
                        girl in her arms, but that Mina, with an irrepressible movement of
                        abhorrence, turned her face to the wall.
                    Nevertheless, the Countess Ogotshki did not go yet. She paced several times
                        up and down the room in silence, and then said: "I see that the sight of me
                        is intolerable to you now. I will not inflict my presence upon you much
                        longer—indeed there is no time to lose. I have your promise, that suffices;
                        for the rest you must let me act, and trust yourself implicitly to my
                        guidance. Of course you must be gone from here before a certain hour
                        to-morrow."
                    Seeing Mina make a faint sign with her head, though she did not turn round,
                        she said, "Farewell! may we meet again under happier auspices," and quietly
                        walked out of the room.
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER XLI.
                    IN THE TOILS.
                    THE Countess Ogotshki left the house in the Silberstrasse as unobserved as
                        she had entered it; and in spite of the thick furs which she wrapped more
                        closely around her, she shivered with the cold as she stepped into the
                        street. Once there, she looked in every direction for a conveyance; but in
                        vain. She was perforce obliged to walk some distance down the street, which,
                        as she proceeded along it, became more and more crowded with bustling
                        people, who; in spite of the freezing weather, were still intent on buying
                        their Christmas presents at the eleventh hour. Never had she seen such a
                        stir in the usually sleepy town. A woman hugging a huge fir-tree, with its
                        branches sticking out in all directions, actually came knocking up against
                        her without so much as an "I beg your pardon, ma'am." Ladies, with nothing
                        visible about them but their eyes, passed like black dominoes across the
                        snow, attended as often as  not by men or
                        maid-servants bearing unwieldly lanterns in one hand, and capacious baskets
                        crammed with toys and sweetmeats in the other; street boys d girls, yelling
                        and screaming with pleasure, shot, one after another, like so many human
                        cannon-balls along slides as smooth as glass, to the endangering not only of
                        their own necks, but of that of every chance passer-by; and here and there
                        the thoroughfare was half obstructed by casual stalls, where old women, by
                        the light of a flickering tallow candle, haggled about the price of apples
                        and gilt nuts, with faces like that of the weird sisters themselves.
                    These various hindrances served not a little to exasperate the fine lady, all
                        unused as she was to go about on foot. At last she caught sight of a
                        solitary vehicle standing at a corner, its driver continually beating his
                        hands together, and stamping now with one foot now with the other, after the
                        manner of his kind, to keep the blood from freezing in his veins. Hailing
                        him impatiently, she ordered herself to be driven to the hotel, "Zum
                        Englischen Hof," where she had put up on her arrival.
                    Three or four officious waiters, loitering in vacant self-importance about
                        the brightly illumined entrance, bestirred themselves with more than usual
                        alacrity to attend on the Countess as she stepped from the conveyance.
                    She no sooner reached her private sitting-room than, calling for pen, ink,
                        and paper, she scrawled a few hasty lines, and addressing them to Professor
                        Sontheim, directed her note to be taken there immediately by the
                        commissionnaire, with the injunction that should the  Professor be out he must inquire where he was to
                        be found, and, wherever that might be, deliver the note safely into his
                        hands.
                    Having settled this business, she went into her bedroom and betook herself to
                        the important business of dressing, with the assistance of her maid, who
                        found her more than usually difficult to please; and who—pinning one of the
                        Countess's plaits a little too low down the nape of the neck, instead of
                        arranging it à la Grecque, as she was
                        told—received a sounding box on the ear, which implied more vigour than her
                        mistress would usually have taken credit for.
                    So when Sontheim—who on receiving her note had hastily donned his gala
                        attire—arrived in a chaotic state of mind, in which the most contradictory
                        feelings and wishes were wildly jumbled, and was ushered into the private
                        sitting-room of the Countess Ogotshki, he found not a soul present except
                        the little fluffed-out lap-dog Succès, which barked at him rancorously,
                        although safely barricaded amongst furs on a divan.
                    To the Professor, coming from the frosty air outside, it seemed almost
                        suffocatingly hot on entering the richly but gaudily furnished apartment,
                        with the double windows and heavy red damask curtains keeping out every
                        touch of cold, while two or three tall lamps covered with shades diffused a
                        subdued glow over everything.
                    When the folding-door presently swung open, and the Countess came into the
                        room with the slow, gliding step peculiar to her, Leopold Sontheim was, as
                        it were, surprised afresh by the beauty of this woman, much as he had dwelt
                        upon it in absence.
                    The perfection of art had imparted a certain negligent  grace to her weeds—nay, to the very folds of the
                        black lace, which enhancing the white statuesque contour of her throat and
                        arms, looked as though mental preoccupation had excluded matters so trivial
                        from her thoughts.
                    "Ah!" she said, in a voice so feeble as to be almost inaudible, "Ah, my dear,
                        dear friend, we meet again under very trying circumstances."
                    Sontheim had risen to his feet and was looking at her with all his eyes, and
                        when she held out her hand to him with a smile that had much of sorrow in
                        it, he seemed to forget to let it go again.
                    "It is truly comforting, dear friend, that you have come to me in my
                        distress," she continued. "I shall look to you for aid, advice, counsel;
                        your strong judgment will—ah——" but here she broke down utterly, and half
                        supporting herself by a chair she, with the assistance of Sontheim, sank
                        down on a sofa, and her head drooped amidst its cushions as though she had
                        no strength left to hold it up any longer.
                    The Professor, leaning over her in deep concern till he almost touched her
                        pale cheek, protested that she should command his services, nay, his life,
                        if only she would tell him what it was she wished.
                    "Ah," sighed she in a whisper, gradually unclosing her eyes, "I am faint, I
                        have hardly breath left to speak; the fatigues of this long, sudden
                        journey—forgive me, my friend—some Eau de Cologne, perhaps——" The Professor
                        had to put his ear quite close to the lady's lips to catch what she was
                        saying; at the last suggestion he jumped up hastily and was going to ring
                        the bell, but that from a faint motion of her hand he understood  it to be close by, slung indeed from her bracelet
                        in a richly-chased silver bottle. With fumbling hands, all unused to the
                        fingering of such feminine articles, the Professor at last managed to
                        unscrew the stopper and dash some of its contents, rather more than was
                        quite pleasant perhaps, in the Countess's face, for a little rill went
                        trickling by her ears down the back of her neck. However, it had the effect
                        of considerably reviving her, and though she did not sit up, her voice had a
                        little more strength than heretofore.
                    "Ah, Sontheim," she murmured, for the first time fixing her eyes full upon
                        him—and, strange to say, they had lost none of their extraordinary
                        brilliancy, in spite of grief, weakness, and anxiety—"Ah, Sontheim, you see
                        in me a much-wronged woman!"
                    Sontheim was so much taken aback at this that for the moment he did not know
                        what to say, and therefore held his tongue.
                    He had come there thinking to reproach this fair demon for her double-dealing
                        course; for her treachery all round; and might he not awaken her remorse for
                        the past, and perhaps—who could tell? But the tables were so completely
                        turned upon him that he was fairly nonplussed—not being anything of a man of
                        the world—however he might pride himself thereupon, but a bookworm, a
                        sentimentalist, a very enthusiast, in spite of the flesh that encumbered
                        him.
                    "But," continued the Countess, "I might have borne everything in silence, I
                        might have swallowed my tears, had I not had a duty to perform—yes, a duty
                        by that sweet, darling child, whom, as you know, I loved from the very
                        first. Oh, it was providential, that!"
                    
                    Looking at her in quite a bewildered fashion, the Professor said: "I don't
                        understand: I don't quite understand——"
                    "Of course not, my friend. You may have heard—what do I know? When men's
                        passions are enlisted in one cause they are not always quite scrupulous,
                        quite—what shall I say? I am but a poor, weak woman, you know, and when a
                        person of genius and such imagination chooses to put things in one
                        light——"
                    "Pardon me for interrupting you," said the Professor; "I have known Emanuel
                        from childhood, if it is of him you are now——"
                    "Dearest friend, will you not even hear me out before you judge?" said
                        Countess Ogotshki, tremulously. "It is to you I look for guidance; with your
                        powerful intellect, your penetrating judgment, your clear sense, you are his
                        match! But if you have judged already, then I——" But she could not finish;
                        she was so overcome that she lay back half fainting, and Sontheim, in deep
                        concern, could do nothing but utter exclamations of dismay, and confound
                        himself in excuses and entreaties to be forgiven, and fan and sprinkle her
                        anew with Eau de Cologne.
                    After the lapse of nearly ten minutes, she whispered, "I am almost too
                        exhausted to go on with what I had to say, but perhaps if you were to ring
                        for tea I might get better by and by, and more capable of proceeding with my
                        painful task."
                    "Thé à la Russe" was presently served with caviare and other delicacies, and
                        while the waiter went in and out of the room some ordinary conversation was
                        kept up, chiefly sustained by the lady, however, who  seemed to have herself more under control than
                        her guest did.
                    When the things had been removed, Countess Ogotshki suddenly laid her hand on
                        Sontheim's arm, and said, in a voice which the tea had evidently rendered
                        quite strong again, "You would not have Mina Lichtenfeld ruined and
                        dishonoured, would you?"
                    "By ——" cried Leopold Sontheim, only with difficulty suppressing the oath
                        that rose to his lips; then suddenly looking full at his beautiful
                        interlocutress and changing his tone, "but my dear lady, forgive me if I
                        appear rude: are you or are, you not the Countess Ogotshki?"
                    A very faint tinge of colour showed itself for an instant on her pallid
                        countenance, and then, instead of answering, she burst into a passion of
                        hysterical weeping.
                    Under such circumstances it was difficult to pursue inquiries, and Sontheim,
                        distracted between the unreasoning passion he felt for this seductive
                        creature and the claims of honour and friendship, was almost beside himself.
                        Seeing her in this state he could not help putting his arm round her, and
                        almost weeping himself for very sympathy.
                    "You, indeed, you have a man's heart," she said at length,
                        wiping her eyes, and there was no mistaking what the emphasis meant to
                        imply; "and therefore I will confide in you. You shall judge, you shall act
                        for me, only do not suffer innocence to be led astray—as I was," she sighed;
                        "I who was a poor, ignorant, peasant girl, but honest, Herr Sontheim,
                        honest—but what am I now? If I have sinned, was I not more  sinned against? Am I married to Emanuel, or am I
                        not? How can I tell? (Her voice was constantly interrupted by sobs as she
                        said this.) It was when tortured by this doubt that I fled—fled with Count
                        Ogotshki, surely I would never have done so had I not had hints thrown out
                        to that effect. But here was a great, an honourable name offered to me;
                        while there I was living in infamy—for I thought then they had tricked me,
                        he and his friend, with this sham marriage."
                    C"No, no," said Sontheim, soothingly, "not tricked you, but some blundering
                        mistake, some flaw such as may occur in these mixed marriages;" and again
                        stealing his arm round her waist, he added, "And after all, now that it is
                        all over, may it not have turned out for the best, dearest Countess?" and he
                        bent a little forward, while his eyes glistened with excitement.
                    "Ah," she sighed, returning his look, and then casting down her eyes, "as you
                        say, things might have turned out for the best, could I—dared I—indeed
                        consider myself free: for our tastes change, and now that I know the world
                        better there are qualities that would have stronger attractions for me,
                        sterling qualities of character rather than talents, however brilliant. But
                        that is not to the point—for on receiving a certain letter, of which you may
                        or may not have heard, I wrote to Rome for the opinion of a most upright,
                        honourable lawyer, and he, on going thoroughly into the matter, assured me
                        that he found it, on careful investigation, to be a bonâ fide marriage according to the laws of the Papal States;
                        and so, and so—you see!"
                    Leopold Sontheim, on hearing this, started up, and  his blood seemed all to have rushed to his head,
                        from his strange look, as he cried: "Oh no—it cannot be—you must be
                        mistaken—he would never——"
                    "Very well," said Antonella, as if exhausted with talking, lying back
                        languidly amidst the cushions, "I have said—you must not—or, if you will,
                        why let that poor innocent darling drift into a position which will ruin her
                        reputation and break her heart—which will leave it doubtful whether she is a
                        mistress or a wife; for at the best it is only a passing fancy such as he
                        has had before, and when the intoxication is over he will come back to me as
                        is his wont, for he never can give me up, never, whatever he may say or do
                        at this moment!" And she drew herself proudly up with flashing eyes, as much
                        as to say, "Can there be a doubt as to who of the two has the superior
                        attractions, par exemple?"
                    Leopold Sontheim was fairly staggered at the tone of deep conviction with
                        which all this was said. What to think, what to say, what to do, was more
                        than he knew. The only conclusion he could arrive at was that he must stop
                        this marriage by hook or by crook, at least till things were cleared up.
                        And, then, his own hopes and wishes were so deeply involved in this matter!
                        But a minute ago that look, those words, had given him an access of pleasure
                        such as he had never yet experienced, and now he was once more replunged
                        into cold wretchedness; in this one minute his very aspect was changed, his
                        eyes looked bloodshot. At last he said, turning to her abruptly, "Well,
                        something must be done—what is it that you wish? Is there aught but
                        suffering left for all of us?"
                    
                    Antonella, again laying her hand on his arm, said, mournfully glancing at her
                        weeds: "For me, my friend, my dear friend, there is nothing else! But Mina,
                        she is young, she will get over it; the great thing is to get her out of his
                        way, to hide her till the first shock is over, and then—why, we shall
                        see."
                    "But," said the Professor, blankly, "will she come? What a scene it will be!
                        Where shall I take her to?"
                    "There will be no scene," said the Countess; "she knows everything, and is
                        determined to break it off of her own accord. She will let her mother know,
                        no doubt, that there is to be, can be, no wedding. So all you have to do is
                        to take my carriage and as many horses as may be, and take her somewhere out
                        of harm's way."
                    "But had I not better go and explain to Emanuel first? If things are as they
                        now appear, I shall call him out; but before that——"
                    "First get Mina out of the way," interrupted the Countess, getting impatient,
                        "and afterwards explain at your leisure. You do not know the man; yet surely
                        you should from his playing! He is the very devil when his passions are
                        roused! He will carry her off by sheer force, as he did me once. But when he
                        has had time to cool down one can reason with him. I myself will write or go
                        to him to-morrow before he starts for church——"
                    "Well," said Sontheim, "time brings counsel! I will take her away for the
                        present. There's an old abbey in the recesses of the Black Forest, quite
                        solitary, hidden amidst fir-trees and half shut in by a stream, where some
                        sisters of mercy reside at present——  I
                        know one of them: Mina will be safe enough there."
                    "Yes, yes," said Antonella, "that is the very thing, the peace of such an
                        abode will soothe her. But give me the address, I may have to communicate
                        with her—who knows?"
                    While Sontheim was doing so, she saw that his hand was trembling like that of
                        a drunken person.
                    "Will you start at once?" asked Antonella.
                    Sontheim, after a minute's silence, said: "No, no, I could not take the child
                        through such a freezing night as this; it might kill her almost. Before
                        daybreak to-morrow will be time enough. Let her sleep in peace to-night—if
                        she can."
                    "Yes, let her sleep in peace," said the Countess; "and I too, dear Sontheim,
                        I too would rest a little, for I have been travelling all
                        through the night, though it has been freezing."
                    Sontheim, in a wild fit of passion, suddenly seized her in his arms and
                        kissed her, and pressed her to his heart in quite a delirious way, so that
                        she could not, if she would, have extricated herself. "Once, if never, never
                        again," he stammered at last, and then, without daring to see what she would
                        say, rushed out of the room.
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER XLII.
                    "WHAT HAS ONE DONE, THOU HAPLESS CHILD, TO THEE?"
                    MINA, when she had been left alone, remained just where she was, leaning
                        against the wall as though all force and motion had alike forsaken her body.
                        Apparently she neither thought nor felt anything, but, like a person who has
                        been thrown down a precipice, a long time elapsed before she even remembered
                        what it was that caused this numbness of her faculties.
                    They say that the sharpest throb of agony is that of the bird pierced in
                        mid-flight by a bullet, which contracts and stiffens the nerves while yet
                        palpitating with the intensity of life.
                    Such in kind is a great sorrow, if it unexpectedly overtakes the young. Their
                        very plenitude of existence lends it an additional sting, a keener anguish;
                        and to them there is, or seems, no end to it—it is infinite as their sense
                        of time. Afterwards sorrow may become a habit like other habits, and be
                        borne with more or less good  grace; but
                        at the first it strikes the heart as though it would crush it at one
                        blow.
                    It was harrowing to see the change that had come over the hapless child when
                        she turned round at last. Youth cannot suddenly turn to age, it is true, yet
                        in a few short hours, no more, such a change had come over Mina's sweet face
                        that, seeing her, one could have imagined how she would look when she came
                        to be an old, old woman, so drawn and pinched were her features; indeed, the
                        flesh seemed to have shrunken on her bones. Only her eyes had grown
                        preternaturally large, but the light had gone out of them—as the light had
                        gone out of the world for them; they were dry, and dull, and vacant, as
                        though seeing they yet did not see. All at once, as if by accident, they
                        alighted on the bridal dress. Then with a sudden abruptness she drew her
                        hand across her forehead, as one who thinks that perchance all this
                        frightful anguish and misery have been but a hideous dream, a loathsome
                        nightmare, to be lifted from the oppressed heart with the darkness of the
                        night.
                    But no, the dream did not pass away—it was true, all too true! She had been
                        taken up as a makeshift by one who preferred another—who had dallied with
                        her as one would with a child—who had taken her love as one would pluck a
                        flower—who had mocked her with a semblance of passion when the reality had
                        long ago been spent on——. With a violent, irrepressible shuddering she threw
                        herself on the bed, and bit the bed-clothes with her teeth; but there was no
                        tear, no sob, only this silent shuddering that now and then swept over her
                        whole frame.
                    Presently she raised herself again and stared round,  and all at once she cried out to the walls, as
                        though they could understand and answer her—"No! no! no! It cannot be! It is
                        a lie! He loves me: he said he loved me—I know, I feel that he does!" Then
                        with a sudden impulse hurrying to the window, she threw it open, and called
                        piteously into the wintry night, "Emanuel! Emanuel! Oh, come to me,
                        Emanuel!" as though her cry of anguish must reach his ears.
                    But it rung out unheeded of the sleeping children, of the bustling mother
                        below. There was a dead, unresponsive silence—he was not singing under her
                        window now! All at once she caught sight of the spectral snow-bride that
                        stood there instead, and slammed the window to with a shudder.
                    She was roused now to the fullest realization of her situation. The cold rush
                        of air had acted upon her with something like an electric shock. She tried
                        to think it all out now—to think what she must do—what was right! Strangely
                        enough, in all the agony of her mind she had never yet reproached her
                        lover—accused him as the cause of it all; that woman, it was that woman. Ah,
                        and she was so beautiful! What was she but a little insignificant thing in
                        comparison. But she loved him so. She would die for him, and more—she would
                        live in eternal misery so that he were but happy. But if not happy—what
                        then?
                    She would go to him; she would tell him so! But no—that woman had said if he
                        were to see her in such grief he would never, never own to the real state of
                        his feelings. And there was that letter which she had seen—never to her had
                        he written such words of fire; and she pressed her hands into her dry eyes
                        as though the words were literally still burning her there.
                    
                    She would go far, far away—hide herself in some dark wood; never come back to
                        this place where the children would point at her with their fingers
                        to-morrow as the false bride of their fairy-tales. The other woman would be
                        the bride now: she would take off her mourning and don the white dress
                        instead. Or was she indeed his wife already? She had said so too—strange,
                        strange, very strange indeed!
                    But stop—let her think. Could no one help her, advise her, find out
                        everything, make her course plain, help her to do what was right, what was
                        best for him? That was it!—of course, Sontheim, Professor Sontheim, why had
                        she not thought of him before? Her father's old friend—he would not deceive
                        her, he!
                    Mechanically she moved about, putting on her cloak, tying on her bonnet as
                        usual, and the gloves, too, were not forgotten; but she thought not to
                        protect herself with extra wraps from the unusually severe cold that had set
                        in.
                    Softly, very softly, she crept downstairs, trembling almost like a
                        malefactor, and on the landing she delayed, as though in doubt about
                        something; then she peeped in at the door of the family sitting-room, which
                        stood slightly ajar. The maid-of-all-work was cutting-out yards and yards of
                        green and yellow and crimson paper, while Frau Lichtenfeld, standing on a
                        chair, twined and wreathed the strips about the dark-green branches, to
                        which she had already fastened the gilt nuts and Adam and Eve apples which
                        form such an indispensable adjunct of this festival. She was just then
                        rating Sabina in her shrillest octaves as being "too wasteful by half with
                        that paper; just look at all the snippings  strewn about the floor—why it's as good as throwing a silver groschen out
                        of window! But what's the odds to you so long as it's not your maw that
                        suffers the dearth! Give here the scissors, I'll do it all myself; and go
                        you and see after the gingerbread."
                    Mina started with a heavy sigh, and then stole down the remaining flights of
                        steps and out of the house. The clock of the old Minster struck ten as she
                        passed into the cold frosty night. A great many people were still abroad,
                        and the roads were unusually light and lively considering the lateness of
                        the hour. Mina kept as close as possible to the dark side of the houses, for
                        fear any one should recognize her.
                    Mina walked some way down the Silberstrasse, which was as long as the town
                        itself, one end terminating in the fields and gardens near the Lichtenfelds'
                        house, and the other at the Grand Ducal gardens. Presently she took the
                        turning to the right, and after going down several side-streets rang at
                        Sontheim's door.
                    The slatternly servant who after some delay came yawning to open it, answered
                        her inquiries as to whether Professor Sontheim was at home with a stare, and
                        then deigned to inform her that he and Frau Scherer were both from home: the
                        latter she knew had gone to the Frau Obertribunalprocurator's, where there
                        was a Christmas party; but as to the former's whereabouts, she was sure she
                        couldn't say. "Perhaps he had gone to the '
                            Wirhshaus
                            Wirtshaus
                        ' and might be he would be back shortly, and might be he wouldn't
                        come home till morning," she said, still sullenly staring.
                    To the servant's still greater amazement the wretched girl bade her tell the
                        Professor that she would call  again. This
                        the former promised to do if she should not be in bed and asleep by then,
                        "for it wasn't just likely that she would sit up for him, not she!"
                    Feeling more heart-sick and helpless, if that were possible, than before,
                        Mina turned away from the house. And then there came over her, like some
                        unreasoning blind hunger of the heart, the imperious craving to look once
                        more on the face, the beloved face, that she might thenceforth never behold
                        again save in dreams. Yes, just to look on him once more! It seemed as if
                        that were the goal of her utmost desire—all that she could conceive or think
                        of now. Behind that the future stretched a mere formless void.
                    If Sontheim told her it was even as that woman had said, then "farewell,
                        love, for ever farewell."
                    But there could be no wrong, no harm to any one, if she just peeped through
                        the window into the room she knew; where he sat composing and playing this
                        very evening, while she——
                    Without giving herself time to think, drawn as it were by invisible cords,
                        she hurried blindly along the thoroughfare, past the market-place and its
                        Minster, and the street grew more and more deserted as she drew nearer the
                        park. Only now and then a solitary figure, with its vague shadow gliding
                        weirdly across the snow, passed rapidly by. Otherwise all traffic appeared
                        to have ceased.
                    But in all the windows of the street what a glow and light there yet was. For
                        in almost every house the Christmas-tree was kindled, and the lights of the
                        gaily coloured tapers twinkled through the curtains.
                    Gay groups of children would stand there, and with  happy eyes blink up at the lights, and the
                        bewildering wealth of presents, and the "Christkindchen" on the topmost twig
                        in its shimmering golden dress and crown. Yea, she could almost see the
                        people with their loved ones around them in those happy homes—as, indeed,
                        she could hear their laughter ringing out. She might have called to them and
                        they might have answered; but she, out here, belonged to the night and its
                        shadows, as she stole on, now and then moaning unconsciously, "My love, my
                        love, my lost love—oh!"
                    But when she came to the park, behold the gates were locked! She had never
                        contemplated such a possibility. For a moment she remained blankly staring
                        at the iron-railing barring her progress; but she was not so easily to be
                        turned from her purpose. In another instant she began clambering up the tall
                        ornamented bars, and as it was not so long ago since she had left off
                        climbing up the fruit-trees and swinging herself for hours on one of their
                        boughs, she accomplished the feat without great difficulty—only that, she
                        grazed her left hand slightly at one of the foliated scroll-works as she let
                        herself down on the other side.
                    She was in the park now, the wide, white, desolate park, where the grey
                        Rococo Palace, with its empty windows, seemed vacantly staring down the
                        long, leafless avenue, its ornamented roof and projecting lintels covered
                        with snow sparkling like crystal beneath the glittering starlight sky.
                    How phantom-like, and unreal did it all look! But then the whole world had
                        grown unreal and phantom-like to this forlorn child. To her bewildered brain
                        there seemed to be nothing solid above or beneath her;  for since love was a mockery, her whole moral
                        being tossed and floundered helplessly like a ship cut adrift from its
                        moorings. For the first time, too, she vaguely apprehended the terrible and
                        sinister side of nature, and where she had hitherto only loved a universal
                        mother, there met her now, in her direst need, but a pitiless indifference
                        that added to her desolation, had it been possible.
                    Now and then the ghostly stillness was broken by a sharp, sudden noise, when
                        some branch or twig too heavily laden broke with its weight of snow.
                    Thus she moved on, a little solitary figure, herself like a ghost stealing
                        through a ghostly world. The air was almost as cutting as a sharpened razor,
                        but as though she were indeed a visitant from another sphere she seemed to
                        have grown unconscious of all sense impressions. Only when she came in front
                        of the pond, now a sheet of ice, where the statues of Venus, with the snow
                        lying on their marble hair and shoulders, looked forth from amid the
                        shrouded rose-trees with a ghostly glare, she involuntarily checked her
                        course, as the scene of that June evening flashed upon her memory with a
                        more than life-like vividness. Oh, yes! now she understood the look and the
                        action, and the muttered "No more, no more, oh never more on me," which had
                        then for an instant jarred the rapture of the hour.
                    Her poor heart seemed to contract in her bosom with the pain of it, and she
                        looked up to the heavens as though in a mute, instinctive appeal that help
                        might be given her from above and the strength to endure. There, indeed, the
                        infinite, unnumbered multitude of the stars shone down on her in pitiless
                        and supernatural  beauty. Like the
                        unfurled standard of an angelic host, the milky way streamed right across
                        the firmament, swarming, as it were, with lights of greater and lesser
                        brilliancy, emitting some a mild lustre, some flickering restlessly as if
                        blown hither and thither in a gale of wind, while others, mere
                        phosphorescent sparks, seemed to vanish even as you looked at them. And
                        there betwixt the glittering tree-tops, in the rear of the dancing stars,
                        followed the thin form of the wasting moon.
                    Suddenly, close at her elbow, distinct as in life, she heard her father's
                        voice saying, "That is Orion."
                    Once when she was a little girl of five, the gentle, abstracted scholar had
                        called her attention to the sky, and pointed out to her the three fiery
                        stars of this constellation. To the child, impossible to say why, this name
                        opened out a whole enchanted region of fancy. And now grief, acting on her
                        brain as a chemical on secret writing, was bringing out in abnormal
                        freshness this thing so long ago obliterated.
                    But the voice, which seemed to have been outside of herself, sounded so
                        startling in the frightful stillness, that Mina, uttering a low scream, fled
                        down the avenue towards the homely glimmering light of the Pavilion, which
                        she presently reached. Dreading the very cracking of the snow, she ascended
                        the shallow flight of steps which led all round it, till the uppermost step
                        brought her on a level with the casement where she might look in upon her
                        love unsuspected, unheeded. Ah, even now it was heaven to be so near
                        him!
                    At that thought the heavy, icy grief suddenly gave way, and her very heart
                        seemed dissolving in a flood of tears.
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER XLIII.
                    WITHIN AND WITHOUT.
                    SHE could not see him at first. She could only catch the wavering reflection
                        of his shadow in one of the tall mirrors as she stood with straining eyes
                        looking through the carelessly drawn pink-and-white lace curtains into the
                        warmly-glowing interior of the circular room. A large wood fire was blazing
                        on the open hearth in French fashion, and the shadows cast by its
                        vacillating light wavered restlessly along the walls and the vaulted
                        ceiling, with its gaily painted, chubby cupids fluttering amidst garlands of
                        lilies and roses.
                    Emanuel, in an attitude of profound absorption was sitting near a small table
                        of carved rosewood; he had apparently partly finished the composition of the
                        piece on which he was engaged, as it was littered by sheets which seemed to
                        have been flung there one after another as they were done with. Some wax
                        candles in the meanwhile had burnt down to the socket without  attracting his attention, for now and then the
                        expiring flame of one of them still flared up.
                    For Emanuel, like an experienced swimmer who luxuriously abandons himself to
                        the flux and reflux of the element he loves, was floating in the spirit on
                        those rhythmically balanced waves of sound audible to him, in the silence.
                        He had just finished his fantasia. In it he had striven to sum up, to focus,
                        as it were, the leading points of his inner experience; to give a final
                        expression to the past with its storm of headlong passions, while indicating
                        by a soft transition the shining vista opening out into a future glorified
                        by love.
                    Suddenly, in his hasty way, he rose, walked to the fireplace, and stirred the
                        great logs till the blue-green opalescent flames shot crackling and roaring
                        up the chimney. Then he took the violin from its case—placed in the warmest
                        corner, like the pet it was—and went back to the table where his score
                        lay.
                    He was evidently going to play over the piece in its completed form; for he
                        took some of the wax candles from their sconces over the mantleshelf, and
                        stuck them over the still flaming remains in the candlesticks.
                    Mina could see him distinctly now. A radiance almost like light seemed to
                        stream from his visionary eyes, and pale, thin features, as he began
                        playing; for all the time the idea of his love hovered like a spiritual
                        presence before his sight. Even this drifting back into the past could not
                        cloud or overshadow the vivifying joy he felt.
                    At first he struck into a low, veiled prelude, stealing upon the air, and
                        indicating the youthful awakening to  life
                        which as yet withdraws itself coyly into a semi-obscurity, only tenanted by
                        the fairy forms of fancy. These sounds insinuated themselves on the ear with
                        a delicacy, a tingling freshness, such as bluebells and hyacinths might
                        emit, could the elves, indeed, set their bells a-ringing.
                    Mina almost forgot her sorrow! All the nerves in her body seemed listening!
                        It was as if his soul were speaking to hers through the violin. Yea, that
                        might still be hers, that ecstasy of feeling his music pouring through and
                        through her in a flood of melody.
                    Then with a change he began striking the strings and swift, sharp, piercing
                        notes leapt from under his fingers like sparks from the anvil when the iron
                        glows to its stubborn heart. A magnificent form seemed to evolve itself and
                        to wind once more through the mazes of a fantastic dance, as the network of
                        sound now branched out in the most complicated harmonies; for the old
                        tarantella motive, with its weird trills, flitted in and out of the
                        long-drawn yearning sounds, which, as by a miracle of execution, formed the
                        dominant theme.
                    Here the music seemed the expression of that implacable passion embodied by
                        the ancients in their "Venus Pandemos," which fevers the blood, hardens the
                        heart, and seems to drain the very sap of vitality out of man; the passion
                        which would drag him back, as it were, into the chaos of those elemental
                        forces from which he has slowly, painfully worked his way up by
                        infinitesimal steps in the course of the centuries; the passion which would
                        defeat and mock and, laughing his moral law to scorn, lead him a captive in
                        the triumph of Eros.
                    
                    When Mina heard that clash and tumult, as of the very sea of passion lashed
                        into fury, and those tarantella notes that with their irresistible sorceries
                        all at once brought the eyes of Antonella so vividly before her, as though
                        she saw them glittering through the darkness, she feebly clutched at her
                        heart and staggered. It was not of her, but that other woman, he was
                        thinking then, even at that hour—his music said so plainer than any words
                        could. All doubt was over!
                    Strength suddenly forsook her, as if her very blood were actually oozing from
                        some physical wound. Stunned and dazed with the overpowering emotions that
                        had crowded in upon her on that terrible day, she let herself sink on the
                        step on which she had hitherto been standing, and her head drooped wearily
                        back against the door. She was scarcely 
                            concious
                            conscious
                         now of what it was that made her heart so heavy within her; there
                        was only an overwhelming sense of drowsiness weighing her eyelids down like
                        lead.
                    
                    The violin now seemed to utter a kind of shrill cry as of a thing in the last
                        extremity of pain; and then the tempo changed again to a very slow andante—a
                        weary dragging succession of staccato notes, as of some wanderer, it might
                        be, toiling alone along a bleak highway, worn and deadly tired, a worn-out,
                        forsaken wanderer.
                    Tired—tired! Oh how those tones were chiming in with the semi-conscious
                        sensations of the prostrate girl outside. They seemed almost to proceed from
                        within her own bosom, and the real and the illusory  began to get curiously blended and confused in
                        her brain.
                    
                    There was a pause of a minute or two, and then followed a soft, rippling,
                        gliding of the tune into an entirely fresh movement. It was sweet as the
                        dropping of dew on parched-up pastures, or as the slumber which now closed
                        the eyelids of the unhappy girl. So winningly tender and caressing were
                        these honeyed sounds, that a mouse actually stole from its hiding-place, as
                        if irresistibly drawn forth by the music, till it came quite close to the
                        violinist at last, where it remained some little time with brightly peering
                        eyes—till the fall of a burning splinter on the hearth sent it scrambling
                        back to its hole.
                    Another form seemed gradually to detach itself from the background of this
                        magically tender adagio, an etherially
                        lovely form in which the virtuoso now expressed the exquisite, regenerating
                        sentiment in which his whole heart was steeped that moment. Nothing in music
                        had ever given such divine expression to the love which emancipates and
                        exalts, to the love in which the body itself becomes transfused with soul,
                        or so finely rendered the best moments of the best natures, the supreme
                        aspiration of man's heart towards ideal beauty—which music, of all the arts,
                        is best adequate to interpret for us here.
                    Occasional fragments of these heavenly sounds still came, borne like whiffs
                        of fragrance, to the half-numbed senses of the girl, and her soul seemed
                        floating away, far away, on them, till no sense of sorrow or separation
                        remained; but her very life—merged and melted in his—  seemed reuniting to its primitive essence, and to
                        soar on the wings of music into an ocean of illimitable beatitude. Conscious
                        no longer of where she was, reclined on the snow she slumbered as softly as
                        on a bed of down—the snow, of which the children say, when its flakes come
                        whirling to earth as they then did, that the Virgin Mary is shaking out her
                        feather-bed.
                    And still the night grew cold and ever colder. A cutting north-east wind
                        occasionally swept through the trees with a thin, sniffing sound, dislodging
                        the snow with which they were so heavily laden. Now and then the stillness
                        was broken as before by a sharp, sudden noise, when some branch or twig
                        snapped under its burden, or when the body of some starved and frozen
                        sparrow tumbled dead from its perch.
                    Presently, however, a great wave of sound burst on this silence. From the
                        Gothic Minster, and from every steeple and spire in the town, the bells
                        pealed out, clashing and clanging together far through the frosty midnight
                        the glad tidings of the breaking of Christmas Day. And while the chimes
                        still resounded, a lambent star shot from the very zenith with a trail of
                        fire, and was engulphed in night.
                    There is a superstitious saying amongst the people of those parts, that
                        whenever a star shoots a virgin dies somewhere on the earth.
                    Emanuel at length put down his violin, and throwing himself into a chair,
                        worn-out with his exertions, fell asleep where he was.
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER XLIV.
                    THE MARRIAGE MORN.
                    WHEN Professor Sontheim had left the Countess Ogotshki in the abrupt manner
                        we have seen, this lady several times twirled herself round on her
                        high-heeled black satin shoes; then, with a flash of triumph in her black
                        eyes, muttered something between her teeth about "It must and shall be."
                        When she had quieted down a little she began pacing the parqueted floor
                        rather more sedately, all the drooping languor of her previous attitude
                        gone, and replaced by an imperious look of decision, while her knitted brows
                        betokened that she was still busily planning her further course.
                    So far she had indeed succeeded admirably in her machinations. She had met
                        with but little resistance, and she doubted not that the power of her beauty
                        would exert its old witchcraft over Emanuel if she could only get him all to
                        herself once more.
                    The great thing was to get Mina safely out of his  way for the present. After all it was impossible
                        that he should care so much, so very much, for a little half-fledged chick
                        like that. Well, at any rate she would be harmless to-morrow—time would be
                        gained—her own presence would soon serve to efface what impression had been
                        made. Indeed, who could tell—coming upon him unawares might she not take him
                        by storm? And perhaps—stranger things had been known to come to pass—if he
                        was so set on being married to-morrow, why not wed her over again when
                        everything was ready to hand?
                    And as to that child Mina, why she would look out for a nice young man to
                        console her for the loss of one who wasn't at all fit for her. But if she
                        should prove refractory and refuse a good settlement in life, there were
                        ways and means—ways and means; people were sometimes blind to their own best
                        interests, and a little gentle force—when one has lots of money at one's
                        back!
                    Like a spider balancing itself in the centre of its web, now and again
                        shooting out a cunning thread where the meshes seem weakest, she was
                        weaving, weaving the most subtle of stories, wherewith to entrap Emanuel on
                        the morrow when she should come upon him unawares. She had settled that she
                        would go to him quite early, as nothing told so much with these
                        impressionable, hare-brained men as a woman's actual presence in the flesh.
                        And her lips, her eyes flashed into a smile of insolent triumph as she
                        walked, with a dancing step, closely up to the full-length looking-glass,
                        surveying herself from every side, now in profile, now full face, now
                        bending a little forward with a languished  air, now looking over her shoulder in the attitude which the ancients so
                        often gave to their Venus.
                    And she seemed well pleased with the reflection which met her gaze; for,
                        after carrying on this kind of dumb show for about half an hour, she threw a
                        kiss at her reflection in the glass, and then laughingly turned away.
                    Could there, could there be the shadow of a doubt as to what would be the
                        result when, coming in her beauty, backed up by an enormous fortune, she
                        flung it all down at the feet of the man for whom she felt this quenchless
                        desire!
                    Indeed, had not that been her intention from the very first? Had she not
                        risked much peril to herself in order that some day Emanuel might reap the
                        benefit of her dubious conduct? Could self-sacrifice go farther? Surely,
                        surely he must understand it now, if only she could once explain quietly
                        that from the first—when he might have considered her most guilty—his
                        welfare had been the chief mainspring of her actions. Absorbed in these
                        meditations, she now passed into her bedroom, luxuriously leaning back in a
                        chair while the maid was undressing her.
                    But when her long, blue-black hair had been well combed and brushed out,
                        streaming like a dark veil over her ivory shoulders and grandly moulded
                        arms, she said out loud, after being left alone, "What need, what need of it
                        all. I defy him not to love me!" and, satisfied with that conviction, she
                        laid her head on the pillow and fell sound asleep.
                    Nor did she awake till, quite against her habits, she was called according to
                        orders before daybreak. As she  was being
                        dressed she saw, to her great satisfaction, that she was looking splendid
                        that morning, if indeed she could ever look anything else.
                    When the long process of attiring herself was at last over, and she had
                        donned a most bewitching fur cap and pelisse, she stepped into a carriage,
                        well warmed throughout (not her own, however, for that she had placed at
                        Sontheim's disposal), and ordered herself to be driven to the Pavilion in
                        the Palace Gardens.
                    The heavy snow made it a tedious drive, though the distance was but short in
                        reality, and it was quite early still when she stopped the carriage at some
                        little distance, not wishing to startle the unconscious Emanuel by the
                        sudden approach of a vehicle at this unexpected hour.
                    But what was her surprise when she saw her own carriage stopping in front of
                        the pavilion and almost blocking the passage. An uncontrollable fit of rage
                        and anger blazed up in her at this sight foreboding the miscarriage of her
                        schemes; but she crushed it down again, and, boldly advancing to the door,
                        glanced hastily in before entering.
                    Good God! was it—could it be Emanuel lying there on the floor with his arms
                        twined and clinging round something—somebody—on the low divan there,
                        something wrapped about in white, something quite still and motionless!
                    Suddenly she started back with a quick thrill of horror—she had caught sight
                        of Mina's blanched, unearthly face.
                    After standing there for a minute with staring eyes she ran back, threw
                        herself into her own carriage, and 
                        ordered the coachman to drive back to the hotel with all speed.
                    
                    Emanuel, with his habitual impatience, had got dressed that self-same morning
                        long before there was the slightest occasion, and was starting for a ramble
                        in the grey whirling snow, of which since a boy he had always been
                        passionately fond, when he stumbled over something lying across his very
                        threshold.
                    Astonished that snow should be so hard and unyielding, he bent down to
                        examine the cause of the obstruction, and with his hand began clearing it
                        away from whatever it was that obstructed his passage. While doing so he was
                        first startled by the sensation of a woman's shoulder, though so caked with
                        snow that it was indistinguishable on this dim winter's morning; next,
                        shocked to find a woman's chesnut hair the colour of Mina's; and then, O
                        God! what mad phantasmagoria was it that reeled before his straining vision?
                        What demon had invested this phantasmal body with the form of Mina?
                    "Mina! Mina!" he shrieked wildly at last, and had he not by this time been on
                        his knees he would probably have fallen like a senseless block himself.
                    The scream brought the servant to the door, who arrived just in time to
                        steady his master's tottering frame. Looking in utter bewilderment at his
                        convulsed features, he at last said stupidly, "How could a beggar have come
                        to this lone place, and on such a night?"
                    And still holding his master, he stooped as though about to examine and move
                        the body.
                    But Emanuel seized him almost with the ferocity  of a wild beast, and then said in a strangled
                        voice, "A doctor, a doctor—quick, a doctor!"
                    The servant stared for one instant in his master's face, and then silently
                        obeyed him, disappearing down the avenue in the falling snow as fast as it
                        would allow.
                    Emanuel, left alone with the motionless figure, clutched hold of her in a
                        semi-demented state, and half carried, half dragged her into the room, with
                        the snow still clinging to her and dropping piecemeal all about the place,
                        as, kneeling down, he 
                            desposited
                            deposited
                         his burden on a low couch with the tenderness of a mother.
                    With this one supreme effort, what remained to him of clear reasoning seemed
                        exhausted, and still on his knees, he stared blankly about as though at his
                        wit's end. The servant was gone, the fire was out—the utter helplessness of
                        his situation came over him with overwhelming force. He had not even sense
                        enough left to shut the door, through which the cold wind, mingling with
                        occasional snow-flakes, came drifting to the very sofa where he had placed
                        her. Suddenly throwing himself down on the floor beside the snow-cold,
                        angelic form of her he loved; he clasped her in an immovable embrace, he
                        pressed his mouth to hers, he covered her lips with burning kisses, and
                        strained her against his breast till it seemed that her slight form must
                        have been crushed in his arms.
                    Was not that the flutter of returning pulsation in her frozen veins? Was not
                        that the breath of reviving warmth on her icy lips? It could not be but that
                        the passion of his love should send the hot life-blood once more through her
                        chill body. Yes, yes! was not this  the
                        thrill of reawakening life as he cried, "Awake, love, awake, for this is our
                        marriage morn!"
                    When the servant returned with a physician they found him still in this
                        position, his dark form stretched beside the snow-figure of the bride, his
                        tangled hair mingling with her luxuriant curls matted with the snow, which
                        covered her in lumps except where, between their two breasts, it was melting
                        and trickling down the floor.
                    The doctor, with his shrewd eyes, glanced at the group before him, but with
                        that wonderful professional calm which never deserts the man of science, he
                        said nothing for a moment. He keenly scanned the maiden's blanched features,
                        and slightly raised his eyebrows on recognizing them. Then, without
                        disturbing Emanuel, he touched one of her delicate hands: it was like
                        marble, and as rigid. He then, not without compassion, shook the agonized
                        lover by the shoulder and said: "Come, come, my dear sir, you must please
                        move aside if I'm to be of any assistance. There's no time to lose."
                    Then addressing the servant, who was standing in the doorway shaking the snow
                        from his clothes, he said: "Have you any spirits in the place? Light a fire
                        directly in another room; hot blankets may be wanted later."
                    Emanuel, without removing his arms, only half rose, still keeping quite near,
                        while his eyes remained fastened on Mina's face as though, were he to remove
                        them for an instant, she might dissolve like the snow-figure of yesterday.
                        Then he whispered with almost a wandering air: "Strange, strange! very
                        strange indeed!"
                    
                    This time the doctor, again turning to the musician as he bent over the
                        patient, said frankly, almost rudely: "My dear sir, I must beg you to leave
                        the room at once; you understand, of course, that you cannot remain here
                        while I examine the young lady."
                    Emanuel, thus adjured, went reluctantly out of the room, muttering, "Very
                        strange—but life is returning!"
                    In the meanwhile Leopold Sontheim arrived. According to his arrangement with
                        the Countess he had driven up to the Lichtenfelds, where, on arriving, he
                        found the household in a state of utter confusion and wild dismay.
                    For when the early-stirring widow had gone up to call her daughter, she had
                        found the room empty and the bed not slept in. Since then she had been
                        distracted by running from one room to another, wringing her hands, and
                        still searching in all most unlikely places, while calling upon her
                        daughter, till it was a wonder she still had any voice left to call with. On
                        hearing a carriage driving up, therefore, she flew downstairs, and as the
                        Professor was rushing up they came into violent collision.
                    "Mina will have explained everything," he said hurriedly; "is she ready?
                        There's no time to lose!"
                    "My daughter! where is my daughter?" cried the widow, scarcely heeding him.
                        "Give me back, give me back my child!"
                    Sontheim retreated a step or two down the stairs—"What do you mean? I don't
                        understand!" he exclaimed.
                    "What has he done with her, Sontheim, what has  he done with her?" screamed Frau Lichtenfeld,
                        quite beside herself. "Oh, I always feared that these——"
                    "Do you mean that Mina is not in the house?" asked Sontheim, sternly.
                    "Herr Gott, how should she," cried the weeping mother, "when I've been
                        hunting for her ever since daylight in every cupboard and wardrobe! Wolf
                        must have missed you; I sent him——"
                    Sontheim stamped on the floor in a towering rage as he cried: "He has found
                        out that I know all, then, and ran off with her——"
                    "Ran off with her, when he was to have been married to my daughter this very
                        morning—impossible!" exclaimed Frau Lichtenfeld, incredulously.
                    The Professor in a few brief sentences then explained how matters now
                        appeared to him (for he no longer doubted that Emanuel had meanly practised
                        on his credulity and good faith). While doing so he tried to soften the blow
                        as much as possible to the poor widow, by saying that if she would leave
                        matters with him he yet hoped to be able to overtake the fugitives, and
                        bring her daughter back to her unharmed.
                    Frau Lichtenfeld, utterly thunderstruck, could only find breath for once to
                        say: "Go, go at once, for heaven's sake, as you value our good name, and let
                        us keep it as quiet as we can!" And even before she had finished the
                        Professor had started off again.
                    He directed the coachman to drive to the Pavilion, in the hope that he might
                        come upon the traces of the fugitives. On the way he was a prey to the most
                        painful reflections. He no longer entertained the shadow of a doubt that
                        everything which the Countess Ogotshki 
                        had told him was the exact truth, and that Emanuel, finding that imposition
                        would answer no longer, had taken the bit in his teeth, and carried Mina
                        off—to what a fate, good God! Which ever way he looked there was equal
                        bitterness. Emanuel, whom he had trusted and loved, had shamefully deceived
                        him; Mina, who ought to have found a protector in himself, was, partly owing
                        to his foolish gullibility, being carried off to her ruin; and the Countess,
                        the beautiful, ravishing, irresistible Countess, who had proved less black
                        than she had been painted—well, she was not, could not be a widow in that
                        case!
                    By this time they drove up in front of the Pavilion. The Professor, flushed
                        with anger, and relieving himself by a volley of the most terrific oaths,
                        got out here to make inquiries of any person whom he might discover about
                        the premises. Finding the door ajar, he walked in without further ceremony.
                        To his astonishment the room was not empty as he had expected. A doctor,
                        whom he knew slightly, was violently rubbing the bare feet of some one whose
                        face he could not see owing to the position of the sofa. But before he could
                        approach or make any further inquiries, Emanuel himself came softly peering
                        into the room; but oh, how strange, how haggard was his look! On seeing
                        Sontheim, he apparently took his presence there as a matter of course, and
                        said in a wild, hasty whisper—
                    "Life is returning, Leopold, life is returning!"
                    Sontheim with quick strides moved to the side of the couch. A groan escaped
                        him on seeing his old friend's daughter in such piteous plight the fair,
                        innocent child, so full of life and love but yesterday; the  little child that almost insensibly had turned
                        into a maiden under his eyes! "What is it? what is it?" he asked the doctor
                        in a husky whisper. "How came she here? Where was she found?" and he groaned
                        again with a dim compunction that his reason hardly yet confirmed.
                    The doctor, glancing significantly at Emanuel and then at him, begged the
                        former to fetch him some more snow, and the instant he had darted off he
                        bent towards Sontheim with the whisper: "Go, go, break it to him gently—I
                        can do nothing here; but how can this have happened? Frau Lichtenfeld's
                        daughter, is it not? Wasn't she to have been married to-day? What does it
                        mean?"
                    Sontheim burst out: "Is it true? Do you mean that she is dead? It cannot
                        be—one does not die like that! But yesterday she was in the bloom of
                        health!"
                    "That may be," said the doctor quietly—"for you see she has been frozen to
                        death."
                    The Professor struck his fist against his forehead. Something like a
                        glimmering of the real state of the case, of the desperation of the hapless
                        child on hearing what she must have heard, faintly dawned on him, and he
                        cursed himself for a fool on remembering how he had wished to let her sleep
                        in peace—sleep in peace, indeed!
                    When Emanuel came rushing back with the snow, and breathlessly inquired how
                        she was going on, Sontheim, grasping his arm, said: "I want a word with you;
                        Dr. Furka is doing all he can for her, you see." And leading his friend into
                        the next room he closed the door, making a sign as much as to say that  he didn't want to be overheard. "In
                        heaven's name, how has it happened?" he whispered.
                    Emanuel, shaking his head in a piteous manner, said brokenly: "Good God! as
                        if I knew! It's past all comprehension! The dear angel out on such a
                        night—alone—in the cold—at my very threshold; it will drive me mad to think
                        of. But I must go back, I must go back now; life is returning, she will be
                        well soon."
                    "Wait a minute," said Sontheim, detaining him by the arm; "you were not going
                        to run off with her, then?"
                    "Run off with her!" echoed Emanuel, "are you going out of your mind too?"
                    "I mean because the Countess Ogotshki arrived here yesterday, and might
                        have——"
                    "Antonella!" hissed Emanuel, "Antonella here?"
                    "Yes, yes," cried Sontheim, "I thought you knew. She was with Mina yesterday;
                        she told her——"
                    "Oh, oh!" moaned Emanuel, in an agony of despair, "then she has—ah—let me
                        go—I will dash her brains out—I will——"
                    He struggled violently to free his arm, but his friend detained him by sheer
                        force.
                    "Emanuel," he said, and there were tears in his eyes, "wait a minute—oh, my
                        friend—how shall I tell you?—Mina is—is—dead."
                    Emanuel shrieked, even as he had done on first finding his dear love in the
                        snow, and bursting from his friend's grasp he darted back into the room
                        where she lay, when again flinging himself on the floor beside her, he took
                        his snow-bride in his arms, looking a more woeful spectacle than the corpse
                        which he clasped.
                    
                    
                    Leopold Sontheim and Dr. Furka looked on with the profoundest pity; and as
                        grief, like love, seeks ever to shroud itself in obscurity, these two stole
                        out of the room on tip-toe, leaving the unfortunate man alone with her who
                        was to have been his wife that day. What consolation could avail? What
                        comfort could they offer?
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER XLV.
                    RETRO ME SATANAS.
                    THE day on which a merry wedding was to have been celebrated, turned out one
                        of dire misery and confusion to every one concerned in it.
                    It was by downright force that Dr. Furka and Professor Sontheim succeeded in
                        extricating, the dead bride from her lover's arms. He refused to believe
                        that she was dead; and, like one beside himself, threatened them should they
                        dare to bury her.
                    She looked indeed but as one that is sleeping. Her lips were red, and there
                        was a faint tinge of rose on her snow-white cheeks, while her hair, as if
                        with a life of its own, fell in golden-brown ruffled locks about her smooth
                        temples and soft round throat. All her old loveliness had come back to her,
                        indeed with a something beyond it. On her face seemed yet to linger faint
                        reflections of that divine harmony which had rocked her spirit into its long
                        sleep.
                    
                    But when they had once carried her out of the house Emanuel fell into a
                        deadly stupor, and suffered them to do anything they liked. For man cannot
                        suffer beyond a certain point; after that comes a blank, a nothingness, an
                        oblivion as of death itself, till his energies be sufficiently restored to
                        bear a renewal of torture.
                    The thought, the maddening thought, which lent an additional poignancy to
                        Emanuel's anguish, when he once more fully realized what had happened to
                        him, was the conviction that this tragic issue was in part the outcome of
                        his own conduct.
                    When in his reviving consciousness he conceived the meeting between these two
                        women, and how it must have taken place and what might have been said
                        between them, he could have screamed aloud for pain and rage, and he
                        fiercely struck his head against the wall near which he lay, as though he
                        would have dashed his brains out. This dastardly stab aimed with the skill
                        of a devil, was it not a murder? Yet what redress from the law for the
                        slaying of this sweetest soul?
                    He himself, was he not guilty too? Had he not helped to bring about this
                        catastrophe? Why, why did he not tell her the truth, the whole truth, and
                        leave her to act according to her own delicate perception of honour and
                        right? Was he not a coward—a common coward?
                    In the evening, when Dr. Furka and Sontheim returned they found the musician
                        seething in a fever; and the former, after carefully examining his patient,
                        seemed alarmed at the symptoms.
                    He was a physician of high reputation, this Dr.  Furka, and even consulted by the Grand Ducal
                        family itself, though his blunt, outspoken, and brusque, nay, at times, rude
                        manners, did not recommend him much to the patronage of the aristocracy, who
                        only called him in when compelled to do so. He had not the slightest pity or
                        sympathy for the ailments and vapours of fine ladies; instead of making a
                        good thing out of them, physicking and coddling them up to the top of their
                        bent, he would shrug his shoulders, and, by way of a prescription,
                        sarcastically suggest a course of scrubbing their own floors or washing
                        their linen. It was even reported that one high-born young lady who suffered
                        from a complication of nervous disorders, after trying every doctor in the
                        town and calling in Dr. Furka as a last resource, could get nothing out of
                        him for her trouble but a lecture. He had actually twitted her with her
                        aches and pains in the most barbarous manner; and pointing to the yellow
                        leaves outside—it happening to be autumn—asked what business she had at her
                        age to have a complexion like them.
                    "But my advice," he had ended with, "you would not take—namely, that you
                        should leave off parading a waspish waist and wafer-like boots, dancing till
                        day-break and nibbling sweetmeats in order to have no appetite left for a
                        hearty meal; so being no charlatan, it only remains for me to wish your
                        ladyship a very good morning."
                    This was not the way to thrive in the world, it must be admitted; but the
                        patients whom Dr. Furka did take in hand got on all the better, perhaps, for
                        his not getting on.
                    A middle-aged, under-sized man, Dr. Furka was of  thin but wiry make, with a determined, military
                        sort of air. His head and face, too big for the rest of his body, were
                        anything but handsome, reminding one of a shaggy skye-terrier; but this
                        plainness was redeemed by a pair of deep-set, dark grey eyes which, overhung
                        by black, sharply-cut eyebrows, seemed to pierce the person he might be
                        looking at to the core. With these eyes he was now regarding the sick
                        virtuoso, when he suddenly said—
                    "What strength there is in this weakness!" and he took one of the thin hands
                        and examined it admiringly. It fidgeted nervously in his own. Turning to
                        Sontheim, he said—
                    "Do you know that this hand alone would tell me how to deal with our patient;
                        for human beings are in truth like so many instruments—some very much out of
                        tune, I admit—but a physician to deserve the name should know how to
                        manipulate each according to its construction. I won't disguise that this is
                        a grave case, Professor, a very grave case indeed, but I trust he may
                        weather it with such nervous power as this superb hand here betokens: to be
                        plain with you, I can do but little, only soothe, only pour oil on these
                        vexed, overwrought nerves, that I could almost fancy I heard vibrating in
                        shrill discords. But what can have brought about such a tragedy?"
                    Sontheim shuffled about uneasily, hardly knowing what to say, or do, or think
                        almost. Such knowledge as he possessed he was chary of; to communicate it
                        now to any one could but occasion fresh evil.
                    Dr. Furka, keenly glancing at him, said: "A physician ought frequently to
                        know the whole story of his patient's 
                        life to do him any radical good, though in this case it's not necessary; but
                        I cannot help surmising this and that—another woman at the bottom of it all?
                        Just the sort of man to set them by the ears! And that poor child! I never
                        came across a sadder business in all my experience. I knew her well by sight
                        too; she was always a pet of mine because she looked so natural, and fresh,
                        and blithe; and I never saw such a clear eye in a human head, more like a
                        seal's for that. But to our patient—the one thing he will need is good
                        nursing and quiet."
                    Sontheim, who himself looked as harassed and feverish as could be, here said
                        that he himself would attend his friend.
                    The doctor shook his head with a slight smile as he replied: "No, no,
                        Professor, forgive me for saying so, but you won't do. Your pulse is over
                        ninety at this minute, I bet you; and what we want here, above everything,
                        is a cool, calm hand, and a presence that shall act as a moderator. A
                        professional nurse is required, and with your permission I will send a
                        person who will prove more efficacious than all my medicaments."
                    Sontheim readily acquiesced, but expressed a hope that there would be no
                        objection to his spending part of his time with his sick friend.
                    "None whatever, none whatever," answered the physician, as he quickly wrote,
                        or rather dashed off, a prescription, and then took up his hat; "but do not
                        keep too close about him—be in the next room if you will. I assure you the
                        physical influence of one person, or even body, upon another is a thing far
                        too little taken  account of in medical
                        science. You are too electrical, too electrical by half," he added, nodding
                        his head as he took his departure.
                    The nurse recommended by Dr. Furka entered upon her functions within an hour
                        of his leaving. She was a woman of about thirty, in the garb of a sister of
                        mercy; so fair that she might have passed for an Albino, and so noiseless in
                        her movements that she stole upon you unawares, like a moonbeam almost. This
                        lady, in her scrupulously neat black dress, with her pale hair tightly
                        gathered under a small white cap, now began administering to Emanuel a dose
                        of the medicine that had just arrived.
                    Sontheim, after exchanging a few words with her about the patient, seeing his
                        friend in such good hands, now left him, in order to seek some rest
                        himself.
                    Some days passed without any change for the better in the musician's most
                        precarious state.
                    It was terrible to see this man fighting with the spectral delusions of
                        fever. The teeming fancies of his naturally imaginative brain seeming to
                        turn upon and rend him as the fabled hounds did Actæon.
                    In his delirium Mina and the snow-bride were being constantly confounded,
                        while the sun, assuming the shape and aspect of a blood-red, bloated spider,
                        shot out flaming threads near and nearer towards the spot where she stood,
                        till the heated air grew thick and suffocating like molten lead. Then, like
                        another Atlas, he would frantically exert himself to keep that burning
                        cobwebbed sky from falling down on the earth; but, behold, his arms
                        shrivelled up like blazing straw, and before his very eyes he saw his
                        lovely, snow-white love,  outshining the
                        morning in fairness, melting, melting away, like a waxen image dissolving in
                        flame.
                    But again and again this unwedded bride would return. He would hear her
                        knocking, knocking, knocking, in the winter's night, piteously crying upon
                        him to unbar his door and let her in; and, behold, his feet had turned to
                        stone, and he could not move, oh he could not move, frantic though his
                        efforts were, as her faint wail, like that of an outcast child crying in the
                        night, "Hast thou quite, quite forgotten me!" would reach his ears.
                    Then suddenly she stood by his bedside without a head, and the moon was
                        shining through her diaphanous form, and he could see the heart in her bosom
                        like a clock, and hear it ticking, ticking, ticking, through the ghostly
                        silence; but the hour-hands marked the pangs his love had inflicted instead
                        of time. Suddenly it stopped, for the spring broke, and the head and face
                        and eyes of Antonella laughed at him with insolent triumph from Mina's
                        figure; and her compelling arms choked even in enlacing him as she
                        whispered, "Time is over; now, love, let us love each other throughout
                        eternity;" and then he himself was metamorphosed into a fly, struggling in
                        the web that enmeshed him in a living death.
                    
                    The news of the wedding turned into a funeral, of the mysteriously awful
                        death of the intended bride, of the precarious state of her betrothed,
                        spread like wildfire through the little town. Nothing could stem the tide of
                        gossip, nor the fabulous and wildly-conflicting stories that were rife in
                        all quarters.
                    
                    No one, however, connected the Countess Ogotshki, the wealthy Russian widow,
                        who had been staying in the hotel "Zum Englischen Hof," with the tragedy in
                        the Silberstrasse. No one had seen her enter or leave the house on that
                        Christmas Eve, and she went away on the following day without stating the
                        place of her destination; so that Sontheim, who had rushed there in a state
                        of frantic distraction to gather further particulars from her as to what had
                        passed between herself and the unhappy girl on that fatal evening of the
                        twenty-fourth, was completely baffled.
                    Owing to Emanuel's terrible state, he had found it impossible to have any
                        explanation on the matter—though all explanations could avail nothing now;
                        but he felt morally convinced that matters had stood even as his friend had
                        represented them to him, though he did not, or would not, admit to himself
                        even yet, how far the Countess Ogotshki might have been deluded or deluding.
                        But his state of mind for the present was one of great wretchedness. He felt
                        that he had committed a piece of signal treachery, in that he had not gone
                        straight to his friend after the accusations that had been made, and, in
                        taxing him with them, given him a chance of self-defence. In that case this
                        terrible catastrophe would never have occurred, in all human probability.
                        This reflection was acutely painful to the Professor; indeed, his conscience
                        whispered that had he not been so blindly enamoured of this woman, he would
                        probably not have yielded such absolute credence to what she had told
                        him—and yet—and yet—he still shrank from accusing her of having wilfully
                        misled him and Mina. He still hoped and longed that much might  be cleared up to her credit and his own as far as
                        she was concerned, and lift this burden of self-reproach from his mind. In
                        this state of gnawing uncertainty concerning her, joined to intense anxiety
                        for his sick friend, and the envenomed grief for Mina's death, he had at
                        present to remain.
                    Frau Lichtenfeld, when she had recovered from the first violence of her
                        grief, which being of a vociferous nature spent itself all the more rapidly,
                        put everything down in a vague manner to the ill-luck of the Lichtenfelds
                        generally: it was like the bankruptcy and the rest of it. And then, alas! or
                        perhaps luckily for her, the preoccupation with the necessary mourning to be
                        provided for a family of five, besides herself, acted as a safety-valve for
                        her feelings.
                    An inquiry had of course been instituted before the proper Court, and in the
                        report that was drawn up, "found frozen" was the only explanation given. Two
                        days afterwards Mina Lichtenfeld, the child of eighteen, was buried beside
                        the grandmother of eighty-six.
                    Many were the ladies of rank and fashion (such as the place contained) who
                        drove up in their carriages to inquire after the great musician's state of
                        health. Every day, at this unseasonable time of year, there arrived splendid
                        gifts of fruits and flowers, although it must be confessed that the
                        irritable doctor often threw the latter out of the window, saying that they
                        might as well poison his patient at once as send those night-polluting
                        hothouse flowers.
                    Every morning there arrived amongst the much abused nosegays one of unusual
                        magnificence,  composed solely of roses.
                        Oddly enough, it seemed as though they varied with the varying symptoms of
                        the fever. When the malady was at its worst they were of a mortuary white,
                        and as the severity of the illness diminished or augmented they changed from
                        cream-colour to pale pink or crimson, as it were out of sympathy. No one
                        could find out where they came from, but they must have cost the donor
                        something like a small fortune.
                    One evening, about a fortnight after the terrible blow his patient had
                        sustained, Dr. Furka went away, and, to Sontheim's great relief, pronounced
                        Emanuel to be, as he believed, out of all danger. He assured the Professor
                        that nature had made a colossal effort in conquering the disease, and that
                        though his friend might still ramble in talk and see imaginary forms, there
                        was no cause for alarm, as his fancy was naturally more vivid than that of
                        ordinary people.
                    Sister Marie, who had hardly ever been out of the sick-room, asked leave
                        therefore to go on an errand for a couple of hours, and Leopold Sontheim
                        agreed to stay in the adjoining apartment till her return. But the wear and
                        tear of constant anxiety, the watching at night, and the hopeless passion,
                        futile regret, and vague surmises which he devoured in silence, had begun to
                        tell on the Professor too. So he threw himself on the sofa, and fell
                        unawares into a kind of doze.
                    Just as Sister Marie opened the front door, a tall, imposing lady in deep
                        mourning was coming up the steps of the Pavilion, and asked the nurse how
                        the patient was. She then said, in low broken tones, that she was a
                        relative, who, although ill herself and en
                            route
                         for Italy, had stopped on her way, and
                        would give anything could she only see the sick man for half an hour. Sister
                        Marie was not a little embarrassed as to what she ought to do—fearful lest
                        the sick man should be excited, and yet unwilling to refuse a request the
                        lady seemed to have so much at heart.
                    "He is asleep now," she said, in a hesitating voice.
                    "I would not wake him," replied the lady; "indeed I would only look to see
                        with my own eyes how my cousin is, and then proceed on my journey, as I have
                        no time to lose."
                    "In that case," answered the nurse, "I have not the heart to refuse you; but
                        please, Madame, not to excite him, as you care for your relative's life, for
                        he has only just turned the corner."
                    Thus, holding the door open for the lady to enter, she went on her way.
                    With a hesitating, gliding step the stranger entered, casting cautious
                        glances around her, and then very noiselessly she sat down, at the foot end
                        of the bed, on a chair that stood very much in shadow, for there was only a
                        dim lamp burning in the sick-room.
                    When, she caught sight of the sleeping man's face, however, she could only
                        with the utmost difficulty, apparently, repress the hysterical sobbing that
                        rose to her throat. He looked indeed terribly emaciated—the bony framework
                        of his features showing through the drawn, sallow skin, and his hair, his
                        beautiful thickly clustering hair, had grown quite grey. It was as if years
                        and years had passed over his head in those few weeks.
                    The horrified stare with which she looked at him seemed to have magnetism in
                        it, for the sleeper grew  restless, turned
                        upon his pillow with a sigh, and quite unexpectedly opened his hollow eyes
                        and stared upon her in his turn. He did not utter a sound, however; he
                        evidently considered her as one of his fevered visions, and with a gesture
                        of loathing he quickly covered his face with his hands.
                    Antonella started from her chair, and, falling on her knees by the bedside,
                        said faintly—
                    "Oh, forgive me, forgive me, Emanuele, I meant not to do her any harm. Let me
                        stay and take care of you! Only say that you forgive me!" she sobbed.
                    "Is it—no, it cannot be—you would not—you dare not show your face here!"
                        cried Emanuel faintly, suddenly rising up in bed and looking at her with
                        wild eyes almost starting from their sockets, still doubtful whether this
                        was the creature of his diseased brain, or a detested reality. "It is all,
                        all coming back," he then moaned, striking his forehead; "the horror,
                        the——"
                    "Hear me—only hear me! I am that Tolla, indeed, whom you once loved," sobbed
                        Antonella; "let me explain, let me justify myself; do not condemn me
                        unheard—even a criminal has that right! Say, what have I done? Could I know
                        that you were going to be married when I came to this place after the
                        Count's death? Remember I had been living here before—had come here, indeed,
                        because it was your birthplace and had memories connected with you; and then
                        I had made a friend of her."
                    Emanuel, who had sunk back on the pillow overcome with weakness, started up
                        once more, and the expression in his eyes would have frightened a more timid
                        woman from the room, for he looked as though  he would throttle her if he could. But she
                        persisted in saying—"Nay, hear me, only hear me, Emanuele! I came to see
                        her, ignorant that she was to be married to you; and in the surprise, the
                        bitterness of the discovery, the secret escaped me in spite of myself—or I
                        would never, never have breathed it to her, although I love you myself as no
                        other woman can," she cried, moving a step nearer, as though to cast her
                        arms round his neck; but he, with a frantic effort raising himself on one
                        elbow, lifted his other arm with the strength of desperation and flung her
                        from him like some poisonous creature, crying hoarsely, "Murderess, avaunt!
                        However it has come to pass, before God, her blood is on your head! Oh, I
                        could throttle the life out of you," he groaned, flinging his arms in the
                        air and trying to rise, but falling back a second time on his pillow.
                    "Kill me! Kill me, if you like!" she exclaimed, with gleaming eyes, coming
                        near once more, and offering him a dagger in her outstretched hand, while
                        she looked the picture of despair. "Death were better far at your hands than
                        such words as these—nay, if you but bid me, I will kill myself—for without
                        you, Emanuele, life is worse than a thousand deaths. You, you alone, are the
                        desire of my eyes, and the breath of my life, and my hope of hereafter; if I
                        have sinned, it has been for your sake, and for your sake I would be damned
                        eternally! Say, only say, that you will let me stay with you—or if not—nay,
                        look not daggers at me, for this dagger shall accomplish what you wish!"
                    She raised the weapon in the air with a flourish, then aimed it at her heart.
                        Emanuel screamed feebly: the door flew open, Sontheim burst into the room,
                        and  striding up to Antonella, violently
                        struck the blade out of her hands, muttering with a deep imprecation, "Will
                        you kill him next?"
                    For a moment the two eyed each other in silence, with all the intensity of
                        concentrated rage.
                    Sontheim, who, with bated breath, had for some time been an involuntary
                        listener, could scarcely trust himself to speak owing to the frightful
                        revulsion of his feelings.
                    His love had, indeed, in that short time, turned to burning hatred; and on
                        discovering how utterly he had been this woman's dupe, he could only point
                        to the door in silence.
                    But she faced and braved him resolutely, even yet determined to fight her
                        ground inch by inch.
                    "He is mine!" she cried; "I have the best right to be here—I am his
                        wife."
                    But Emanuel, seized afresh with delirium, suddenly threw himself out of bed,
                        and in his white night-shirt, with glaring eyes and lifted hand, came
                        rushing towards her, crying—
                    "Get thee behind me, Satan."
                    His gaunt appearance, attenuated frame, and grey, shaggy hair, with the
                        horror as of madness in his look and accent, were so dreadful, that the
                        woman fled, screaming, out into the wintry night.
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER XLVI.
                    RESURGAM.
                    YEARS had passed since the night when the unexpected entrance of Antonella
                        had thrown the sick man back into the height of fever, so that his life for
                        many days after had been despaired of. But the elasticity of Emanuel's
                        constitution, the really profound skill of Dr. Furka, and the indefatigable
                        care of his nurse, helped him a second time to outlive the crisis.
                    When Emanuel was quite recovered he visited the grave of his dead bride,
                        where, for the first time, his sorrow vented itself in tears. There he
                        ordered a tombstone to be erected of the whitest marble, with nothing,
                        besides the name, but the word "Resurgam" to be engraved on it in letters of
                        gold; and violets to be planted there, only white and purple violets, such
                        as she had held when first she gleamed upon him in the vernal wood.
                    By and by the old round of his life had to be resumed once more. The constant
                        claims made by art on any  man devoted to
                        its service, especially when that art is music, do not suffer him to yield
                        himself up to sorrow, however strong and abiding that sorrow may be. It must
                        sooner or later become as the muffled under-current of a constant flowing in
                        of fresh effort, care, triumph, even delight—for without that there can be
                        no creative work, or great performance of any kind; and yet beneath this
                        luxuriant sprouting forth of new life a heart may lie in ruins.
                    Once more the celebrated virtuoso hurried from capital to capital, from
                        concert-room to concert-room, and his advent wherever he appeared drove the
                        multitude half-wild with enthusiasm. His mastery of the violin had, indeed,
                        become something almost incredible and savoured of morbidity. New chords,
                        unknown accents, secrets, and miracles of music, seemed to spring into being
                        under his fingers. And his very appearance heightened the spell exercised by
                        his art. He resembled an apparition rather than a man, and his long,
                        snow-white, floating hair, bloodless face, and haunted-looking eyes, riveted
                        the attention before the bow fell on the strings.
                    But what availed the enthusiasm of the multitude when again and again one
                        face and form would emerge from among the crowd and poison the very air for
                        him? Wherever he might be—in Leipzig or London, Breslau or Berlin, or
                        Madrid, on the banks of the Neva or those of the Danube—presently, as he
                        played, his eyes, amidst the indistinguishable throng, would light upon a
                        tall, lean woman, still conspicuous in her ruined beauty, whose cheeks, as
                        the months rolled by, grew gradually more sunken and rouged, whose eyes
                        gleamed  with ever unsteadier fire, and
                        whose attire by degrees became tawdry even to shabbiness.
                    At last, the sight of this person filled the virtuoso with such physical
                        repulsion and anguish, that he began to hate the concerts and musical
                        festivals, at which he knew beforehand that he should be confronted by the
                        colourless face, with the wavering eyes constantly meeting his. This feeling
                        became so uncontrollable at last, that playing itself grew hateful to him,
                        and suddenly, to the amazement and vexation of a world that idolized him, it
                        was announced once for all that Emanuel Sturm would never again appear in
                        public.
                    The Countess Antonella Ogotshki from that day forth sank ever lower in the
                        social scale, till she disappeared in the most disreputable circles in
                        Paris, the associate of gamblers and sharpers. The wealth for which she had
                        betrayed herself as well as the man she loved, had not been suffered to
                        remain long in her hands.
                    It is true that Count Wenceslaw Ogotshki, after learning from his wife
                        herself in a fit of ungovernable rage that he had been doubly betrayed, was
                        yet so blindly enamoured and dishonourably weak, that although slowly dying
                        from the effects of the corroding shame inflicted on him, he yet recalled
                        her to his side, forgave her, and when in a state of semi-dotage was so
                        overcome by her witcheries and the new version she gave him then of her
                        conduct, that on his death he bequeathed to her the whole of his enormous
                        property.
                    And all might have ended there happily enough for the Countess had she but
                        been able to bide quiet for a year or two, and to wear her weeds with some
                        decorum or appearance of sorrow; for the will was too plain  and straightforward for her husband's relatives
                        to dare dispute it.
                    But a demon possessed Antonella Ogotshki. The more unattainable Emanuel
                        Sturm's love became, the more frantically did she desire it; vanity, caprice
                        and obstinacy, stubborn passion and a morbid, hysterical temperament—over
                        which so early in life the despotism of this man's genius had, as it were,
                        asserted itself—all conspired to make it appear to her that the goal in life
                        was to reconquer and enslave him afresh. But when, after getting back the
                        fatal ring from Mina and instituting secret inquiries, she found that he
                        thought to wed another, her fury knew no bounds; nor would she at first have
                        recoiled from murdering one of the three. If she did not; the wish of her
                        heart at least assumed an outward form which bore fruit.
                    Her movements at that time, however, could not be kept a secret. Rumours got
                        abroad, and her husband's relatives, incensed at being defrauded of what
                        they considered their rightful inheritance, watched her only too narrowly.
                        She could not stir an inch, say a word, write a letter, without its coming
                        to their ears, for her maid, who hated her, was a paid spy in their service.
                        They at last got wind of this early doubtful marriage in Rome; they moved
                        heaven and earth to prove it a legal one, and as she herself had declared it
                        to be such to Leopold Sontheim, whose evidence was of great importance, the
                        Emperor of Russia pronounced a decree of exile against her, confiscated her
                        estates, and deprived her of every rouble of the wealth she so dearly
                        prized.
                    
                    Emanuel, when he retired from the world—for he did so completely on giving up
                        playing in public—bought himself a half-dilapidated but noble Italian
                        palazzo, situated amidst the Volscian hills, not far from the ruined town of
                        Norba. A wilder, a more melancholy site, it would have been difficult to fix
                        upon perhaps anywhere in the world; but it suited the musician's mood, and
                        there he lived secluded as a monk of old. A rough path skirted by precipices
                        led to his abode—perched like an eagle's nest on the giddy verge which
                        terminated the ascent; and eagles, indeed, might often be seen soaring
                        majestically above these sublime and solitary summits. From here an immense
                        panorama stretched out far below into a distance as remote as the world
                        which he had left behind him. His eye embraced the encircling sea with its
                        flower-like islands, and the vast sweep of coast skirted by miles and miles
                        of dusky forest land, and the endlessly rolling verdure of the Pontine
                        marshes, gleaming with many a star-like lake and silver stream, and dotted
                        with the time-worn towers and storied ruins of past centuries.
                    With the large fortune which the virtuoso had amassed in the course of years,
                        he was enabled to fit up this old mansion as a palace of art in its way.
                        Pictures by old and new masters adorned the walls; the modern French
                        romantic school, Delaroche, Delacroix, and his own friend Leroux, being
                        especially well represented, Oddly enough, owing to its want of colour
                        perhaps, he had a whimsical and most unpatriotic horror of the last new
                        Romano-German school of painting; but his instinct was so subtle, that many
                        of the sketches of Renaissance or recent times which he then collected,  must since have become of almost
                        priceless value. In the finely-proportioned hall and on the curved
                        staircase, wood carvings and sculptured marbles alternated with orange and
                        lemon trees, in tall pots of coloured Italian ware; and tapestries, whose
                        half-faded colours, dear to the connoisseur—yet evinced their original
                        boldness of design—decorated spaces of which the old frescoes were
                        obliterated, and replaced or concealed the doors. The furniture, if neither
                        abundant nor the most noticeable part of the collection, was still
                        conspicuous for quaint variety and old-fashioned beauty, and was
                        supplemented everywhere by musical instruments of every epoch and variety,
                        from the most primitive flutes and bagpipes to gigantic lutes and delicate
                        mandolins of exquisite Italian and Spanish workmanship, and pianos from the
                        earliest virginals and spinets to the latest perfection of Broadwood, on
                        which to try his chromatic effects; added to this was a library stocked with
                        the rarest old music and with curious folk-songs, to which Emanuel was very
                        partial, he having began collecting these himself in his many rambles amidst
                        the wild recesses of the mountains he inhabited.
                    Two trusted male domestics, moving noiselessly about their work, sufficed to
                        keep this Patmos of art in sufficient order. Nor was the musician utterly
                        secluded from human intercourse, though his door was strictly guarded from
                        the invasion of idle curiosity-mongers and lion-hunters, who not
                        unfrequently besieged it in spite of the remoteness of the place. For having
                        disappeared from amidst the scene of his former triumphs in the very zenith
                        of his reputation, he had well-nigh become a legendary character during his
                        lifetime, and  in distant countries he was
                        even said to have played two wives to death by his violin.
                    Tourists at all bitten with the musical mania, especially if American, would
                        lie in wait for hours to get a sight of his face, or even of his back, being
                        of opinion, no doubt, that to see a celebrity even from behind is a sop to
                        curiosity. But if by any chance, from some ambush or other, they could catch
                        the sound of his own inimitable violin playing, however faintly a casual
                        breeze might waft the sounds to them from some upper window, their rapture
                        would know no bounds, and the report of what they had heard gradually
                        increased in proportion to the distance between them. But to all true
                        musicians and lovers of music, who came to him from the most distant parts
                        of the world, Emanuel would still display his vaunted charm of manner and
                        the witchcraft of his bow.
                    Amongst others, his old friend Leopold Sontheim—who had taken part in the
                        Revolution of '48, but after some years' imprisonment been pardoned—paid him
                        occasional visits during the summer months. Sontheim was not yet married,
                        though going on for fifty, and one of the results of his last visit had been
                        that Emanuel determined to provide for the education and, settlement in life
                        of Frau Lichtenfeld's two youngest sons, Conrad and Otto, who, according to
                        Sontheim, were clever lads—the former having a certain faint resemblance to
                        one who was no more, and both bent, much to their mother's disgust and
                        remonstrance, on devoting themselves to the study of the natural sciences;
                        whereas Wolfgang and Hans, like true "mother sons," had evinced their common
                        sense by giving up all thoughts  of such
                        "breadless" studies, and began life as commercial travellers in a highly
                        respectable mercantile firm. Lulu, too, walked dutifully in the maternal
                        footsteps, and promised soon to bestow the blessings of her thrift and
                        tongue (the latter being the only thing of which she was by no means
                        thrifty) on Lieutenant Knapp, who had been promoted to the rank of captain,
                        and who, it was to be hoped, would duly appreciate the blessing of her
                        housewifely qualities.
                    The musician provided Sontheim with a letter of credit to a banker in D——,
                        empowering him to draw such a sum or sums as would enable the two young men
                        to prosecute their studies at the University of Heidelberg, which was then
                        even more noted for its courses in physiology and comparative anatomy than
                        for the slashes which its students bestowed on each other's noses. Emanuel,
                        moreover, promised to befriend these two brothers in their career when they
                        should leave the university.
                    Dr. Furka, of whom the reader may perhaps have occasion to hear again, had
                        also found time to pay his former patient a visit during Professor
                        Sontheim's stay there. While sitting together one moonlight evening on the
                        terrace overlooking the magnificent view described above, the conversation
                        happened to turn on the primitive manners of the Italian peasant, when the
                        man of science could not resist this opportunity of probing Emanuel
                        concerning the Tarantismo or dancing
                        mania, in spite of having his toes trodden upon and being frowned at by
                        Sontheim.
                    The musician winced visibly at having his past history touched upon; but once
                        launched, and stimulated  by the
                        influences of the hour, he confided to the doctor all his experience on this
                        subject.
                    The latter, who had listened intently, after smoking for some time in
                        silence, said: "The only way in which I can at all reconcile the
                        extraordinary phenomenon, of which you are probably the last authentic
                        witness, with the possibilities of nature, is, that what you saw was nothing
                        but one of the protean manifestations of hysteria working on a survival of
                        the superstition common in Italy during the seventeenth century. Since
                        having my attention called to it, I have been studying 'Ferdinando,' who in
                        his time wrote an exhaustive treatise on this subject, and I myself think of
                        including the results of these investigations in a book on nervous
                        affections which I have long been meditating."
                    Emanuel, impressed by the doctor's peculiar insight into the occult workings
                        of the human machine, could not help delicately hinting the surprise he felt
                        at his not having made a greater mark in his profession; but Dr. Furka only
                        shrugged his shoulders, saying, with a short laugh: "Though I may understand
                        a little more than some do of the mechanism of human nature, I cannot play
                        on it, you see; no, I cannot play on it—and that's the science of sciences,
                        and the art of arts, if you will. The fact is," he continued, "that, as
                        often as not, I have no patience with my patients, and then I must out with
                        it; or if not, my manner suffices! I act on the reverse plan to hating the
                        sin and loving the sinner, for, while devoted to the study of a disease, I
                        half the time contemn the person who is its subject, for I know well that
                        were it not for self-indulgence,  sloth,
                        greed, and drunkenness, and all such low sensualism, half the ailments by
                        which we doctors live would vanish like smoke. Unfortunately these vices do
                        not always exact retribution from the sinner chiefly concerned, but they
                        will send in their unpaid bills even unto the third and fourth generation,
                        as the Bible hath it.
                    "On the other hand, there are the sick that I almost venerate, that I
                        willingly would treat for nothing, if necessary—such as the diseases
                        incident on maternity, and those maladies I dub heroic, to which the toilers
                        of the brain daily lay themselves open by a too constant concentration of
                        all the juices and nerve-forces on a given point. Talk of Christian martyrs,
                        indeed! Daily around us there are young men who have as certainly sacrificed
                        their lives in a too ardent pursuit of an art or a science as if they had
                        gone to the stake. I could name dozens to you, but indeed your own
                        experience must be much vaster than mine——"
                    "Oh yes," said the musician, with a sad smile, "I could amply illustrate what
                        you are saying from my own profession alone. One in particular I remember, a
                        glorious French fellow he was, a boy almost, who fell an early victim to the
                        passion of music. He was warned, told that he must give up his excessive
                        study and practice of the pianoforte, or die, in all probability. He replied
                        with utter insouciance, like Napoleon's
                        old guard, 'On meurt mais on ne se rend
                            pas!'"
                    But the man who came to see Emanuel oftenest, and ever was most welcome, was
                        his old comrade Raoul Leroux, now a close-shaven, dignified man of the
                        world, with grey moustache, and a tightly buttoned-up  black coat, with the rosette of the legion of
                        honour so coveted by his younger rivals. He, indeed, was the only person
                        ever fully admitted to Emanuel's confidence. Their common devotion to art,
                        which though different in its manifestations is the same at root, bound them
                        with the closest ties of fellowship, and the very opposition of their
                        temperaments seemed to form a fresh bond between them. Towards Emanuel,
                        indeed, Raoul sometimes manifested a care, a tenderness, such as no one else
                        would have suspected in the gay, brilliant, energetic Frenchman, who now
                        served as a link between the secluded musician and the select few who still
                        obtained access to him—the Pope himself having been known to send
                        complimentary messages on some of his latter compositions through the same
                        channel.
                    For on ceasing to be a virtuoso, Emanuel, so far from abandoning his art,
                        devoted himself more assiduously to the higher flights of composition. He
                        might be said to have struck out a new vein in a certain
                        dramatically-musical development of the symphony—and there was an upward
                        soaring, heaven-aspiring quality in some of this later work, suggesting
                        those rapt Madonnas which the Italian painters loved to depict as borne
                        aloft on a cloud of love-illumined seraph faces. Indeed, you might have
                        thought yourself listening to a picture of Raphael's, if a picture of
                        Raphael had sound in it.
                    This was Emanuel's musical rendering of her whose loss had altered the
                        current of his career. The pure-hearted, angel-eyed child was not really
                        dead to him; she lived, she moved, she floated an adorable presence athwart
                        the woven chords and harmonies thrown off 
                        in ever more transcendent beauty from the composer's brain. Death had
                        crystallized her into his ideal: whereas, had she lived, the coarse and
                        common place requirements of everyday existence might possibly have
                        dispelled some of the tender bloom of his first feelings—he now loved in her
                        the very fountain-head of his inspiration. It seemed to him as though her
                        lovely soul had verily breathed its heavenly innocence into his
                        compositions!
                    No, she could never pass away—for, like those gossamer creatures of a
                        summer's day, which we sometimes marvel at seeing embalmed, with every fibre
                        yet intact, in the imperishable spar or amber—even thus the quintessence of
                        her being had passed into music: music which at last altogether ceased to be
                        the medium of personal desire and became the purest expression of the
                        blended yearning of infinite human hearts, flame-like aspiring towards that
                        sublimation of love and beauty and delight which has haunted our vision
                        since the dawning of man, and which the universal heart expresses in the
                        words—"I shall arise again!"
                
            
            THE END.
            UNWIN BROTHERS, THE GRESHAM PRESS, CHILWORTH AND LONDON.
        
    
