
     ----CITATION----
        Malet, Lucas (1852-1931). The History of Sir Richard Calmady. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 1,721 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (3-October-1997).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7032
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        

            
                
                    THE HISTORY OF SIR RICHARD CALMADY 
                    A ROMANCE
                
                BY LUCAS MALET
                
                    METHUEN & CO.
                        36 ESSEX STREET W.C.
                    LONDON
                
                1901
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                    BOOK I THE CLOWN 
                            I. ACQUAINTING THE READER WITH A FAIR DOMAIN AND THE MAKER THEREOF
                                1
                            II. GIVING THE VERY EARLIEST INFORMATION OBTAINABLE OF THE HERO OF
                                THIS BOOK 6
                            III. TOUCHING MATTERS CLERICAL AND CONTROVERSIAL 18
                            IV. RAISING PROBLEMS WHICH IT IS THE PURPOSE OF THIS HISTORY TO
                                RESOLVE 23
                            V. IN WHICH JULIUS MARCH BEHOLDS THE VISION OF THE NEW LIFE 31
                            VI. ACCIDENT OR DESTINY, ACCORDING TO YOUR HUMOUR 40
                            VII. MRS. WILLIAM ORMISTON SACRIFICES A WINE GLASS TO FATE 52
                        VIII. ENTER A CHILD OF PROMISE 62
                            IX. IN WHICH KATHERINE CALMADY LOOKS ON HER SON 69
                            X. THE BIRDS OF THE AIR TAKE THEIR BREAKFAST 76
                        
                    BOOK II THE BREAKING OF DREAMS 
                            I. RECORDING SOME ASPECTS OF A SMALL PILGRIM’S PROGRESS 85
                            II. IN WHICH OUR HERO IMPROVES HIS ACQUAINTANCE WITH MANY
                                THINGS—HIMSELF INCLUDED 95
                            III. CONCERNING THAT WHICH, THANK GOD, HAPPENS ALMOST EVERY DAY
                                107
                            IV. WHICH SMELLS VERY VILELY OF THE STABLE 117
                            V. IN WHICH DICKIE IS INTRODUCED TO A LITTLE DANCER WITH
                                BLUSH?ROSES IN HER HAT 128
                            
                            VI. DEALING WITH A PHYSICIAN OF THE BODY AND A PHYSICIAN OF THE
                                SOUL 136
                            VII. AN ATTEMPT TO MAKE THE BEST OF IT 145
                            VII. TELLING, INCIDENTALLY, OF A BROKEN?DOWN POSTBOY AND A COUNTRY
                                FAIR 154
                        
                    BOOK III LA BELLE DAME SANS MERCI 
                            I. IN WHICH OUR HERO’S WORLD GROWS SENSIBLY WIDER 164
                            II. TELLING HOW DICKIE’S SOUL WAS SOMEWHAT SICK, AND HOW HE MET
                                FAIR WOMEN ON THE CONFINES OF A WOOD 169
                            III. IN WHICH RICHARD CONFIRMS ONE JUDGMENT AND REVERSES ANOTHER
                                177
                        IV. JULIUS MARCH BEARS TESTIMONY 184
                            V. TELLING HOW QUEEN MARY’S CRYSTAL BALL CAME TO FALL ON THE
                                GALLERY FLOOR 195
                            VI. IN WHICH DICKIE TRIES TO RIDE AWAY FROM HIS OWN SHADOW, WITH
                                SUCH SUCCESS AS MIGHT HAVE BEEN ANTICIPATED 210
                            VII. WHEREIN THE READER IS COURTEOUSLY INVITED TO IMPROVE HIS
                                ACQUAINTANCE WITH CERTAIN PERSONS OF QUALITY 218
                            VIII. RICHARD PUTS HIS HAND TO A PLOUGH FROM WHICH THERE IS NO
                                TURNING BACK 229
                            IX. WHICH TOUCHES INCIDENTALLY ON MATTERS OF FINANCE 239
                            X. MR. LUDOVIC QUAYLE AMONG THE PROPHETS 254
                            XI. CONTAINING SAMPLES BOTH OF EARTHLY AND HEAVENLY LOVE 262
                        
                    BOOK IV A SLIP BETWIXT CUP AND LIP 
                            I. LADY LOUISA BARKING TRACES THE FINGER OF PROVIDENCE 273
                            II. TELLING HOW VANITY FAIR MADE ACQUAINTANCE WITH RICHARD CALMADY
                                283
                            III. IN WHICH KATHERINE TRIES TO NAIL UP THE WEATHER?GLASS TO “SET
                                FAIR” 292
                            
                            IV. A LESSON UPON THE ELEVENTH COMMANDMENT—“PARENTS OBEY YOUR
                                CHILDREN” 304
                        V. IPHIGENIA 316
                            VI. IN WHICH HONORIA ST. QUENTIN TAKES THE FIELD 327
                            VII. RECORDING THE ASTONISHING VALOUR DISPLAYED BY A CERTAIN SMALL
                                MOUSE IN A CORNER 338
                            VIII. A MANIFESTATION OF THE SPIRIT 349
                            IX. IN WHICH DICKIE SHAKES HANDS WITH THE DEVIL 358
                        
                    BOOK V RAKE’S PROGRESS 
                            I. IN WHICH THE READER IS COURTEOUSLY ENTREATED TO GROW OLDER BY
                                THE SPACE OF SOME FOUR YEARS, AND TO SAIL SOUTHWARD HO! AWAY 376
                            II. WHEREIN TIME IS DISCOVERED TO HAVE WORKED CHANGES 387
                            III. HELEN DE VALLORBES APPREHENDS VEXATIOUS COMPLICATIONS 395
                        IV. “MATER ADMIRABILIS” 403
                        V. EXIT CAMP 410
                            VI. IN WHICH M. PAUL DESTOURNELL HAS THE BAD TASTE TO THREATEN TO
                                UPSET THE APPLE?CART 422
                        VII. SPLENDIDE MENDAX 432
                            VIII. IN WHICH HELEN DE VALLORBES LEARNS HER RIVAL’S NAME 442
                            IX. CONCERNING THAT DAUGHTER OF CUPID AND PSYCHE WHOM MEN CALL
                                VOLUPTAS 456
                        X. THE ABOMINATION OF DESOLATION 460
                            XI. IN WHICH DICKIE GOES TO THE END OF THE WORLD AND LOOKS OVER
                                THE WALL 474
                        
                    BOOK VI THE NEW HEAVEN AND THE NEW EARTH 
                            I. IN WHICH MISS ST. QUENTIN BEARS WITNESS TO THE FAITH THAT IS IN
                                HER 490
                            II. TELLING HOW, ONCE AGAIN, KATHERINE CALMADY LOOKED ON HER SON
                                500
                            III. CONCERNING A SPIRIT IN PRISON 509
                            
                            IV. DEALING WITH MATTERS OF HEARSAY AND MATTERS OF SPORT 518
                            V. TELLING HOW DICKIE CAME TO UNTIE A CERTAIN TAG OF RUSTY, BLACK
                                RIBBON 529
                        VI. A LITANY OF THE SACRED HEART 540
                            VII. WHEREIN TWO ENEMIES ARE SEEN TO CRY QUITS 550
                            VIII. CONCERNING THE BROTHERHOOD FOUNDED BY RICHARD CALMADY, AND
                                OTHER MATTERS OF SOME INTEREST 565
                            IX. TELLING HOW LUDOVIC QUAYLE AND HONORIA ST. QUENTIN WATCHED THE
                                TROUT RISE IN THE LONG WATER 574
                            X. CONCERNING A DAY OF HONEST WARFARE AND A SUNSET HARBINGER NOT
                                OF THE NIGHT BUT OF THE DAWN 589
                            XI. IN WHICH RICHARD CALMADY BIDS THE LONG?SUFFERING READER
                                FAREWELL 611
                        
                
            
        
        
            
            THE HISTORY OF SIR RICHARD CALMADY
            
                BOOK I
                THE CLOWN
                
                    CHAPTER I
                    ACQUAINTING THE READER WITH A FAIR DOMAIN AND THE MAKER
                        THEREOF
                    IN that fortunate hour of English history, when the cruel sights and
                        haunting insecurities of the Middle Ages had passed away, and while, as yet,
                        the fanatic zeal of Puritanism had not cast its blighting shadow over all
                        merry and pleasant things, it seemed good to one Denzil Calmady, esquire, to
                        build himself a stately red?brick and freestone house upon the southern
                        verge of the great plateau of moorland which ranges northward to the
                        confines of Windsor Forest and eastward to the Surrey Hills. And this he did
                        in no vainglorious spirit, with purpose of exalting himself above the county
                        gentlemen, his neighbours, and showing how far better lined his pockets were
                        than theirs. Rather did he do it from an honest love of all that is
                        ingenious and comely, and as the natural outgrowth of an inquiring and
                        philosophic mind. For Denzil Calmady, like so many another son of that happy
                        age, was something more than a mere wealthy country squire, breeder of beef
                        and brewer of ale. He was a courtier and traveller; and, if tradition speaks
                        truly, a poet, who could praise his mistress’s many charms, or wittily
                        resent her caprices, in well?turned verse. He was a patron of art, having
                        brought back ivories and bronzes from Italy, pictures and china from the Low
                        Countries, and enamels from France. He was a
                        student, and collected the many rare and handsome, leather?bound volumes
                        telling of curious arts, obscure speculations, half?fabulous histories,
                        voyages, and adventures, which still constitute the almost unique value of
                        the Brockhurst library. He might claim to be a man of science, moreover—of
                        that delectable old?world science which has no narrow?minded quarrel with
                        miracle or prodigy, wherein angel and demon mingle freely, lending a hand
                        unchallenged to complicate the operations both of nature and of grace—a
                        science which, even yet, in perfect good faith, busied itself with the
                        mysteries of the Rosy Cross, mixed strange ingredients into a possible
                        Elixir of Life, ran far afield in search for the Philosopher’s Stone,
                        gathered herbs for the confection of simples during auspicious phases of the
                        moon, and beheld in comet and meteor awful forewarnings of public calamity
                        or of Divine Wrath.
                    From all of which it may be premised that when, like the wise king, of old,
                        in Jerusalem, Denzil Calmady “builded him houses, made him gardens and
                        orchards, and planted trees in them of all kind of fruits,” when he “made
                        him pools of water to water therewith the wood that bringe forth trees,”
                        when he “gathered silver and gold, and the treasure of provinces,” and got
                        him singers, and players of musical instruments, and “the delights of the
                        sons of men,”—he did so that, having tried and sifted all these things, he
                        might, by the exercise of a ripe and untrammelled judgment, decide what
                        amongst them is illusory and but a passing show, and what—be it never so
                        small a remnant—has in it the promise of eternal subsistence, and therefore
                        of vital worth; and that, having so decided and thus gained an even mind, he
                        might prepare serenely to take leave of the life he had dared so largely to
                        live.
                    Commencing his labours at Brockhurst during the closing years of the reign of
                        Queen Elizabeth, Denzil Calmady completed them in 1611 with a royal
                        house?warming. For the space of a week, during the autumn of that year,—the
                        last autumn, as it unhappily proved, that graceful and scholarly prince was
                        fated to see,—Henry, Prince of Wales, condescended to be his guest. He was
                        entertained at Brockhurst—as contemporary records inform the curious—with
                        “much feastinge and many joyous masques and gallant pastimes,” including “a
                        great slayinge of deer and divers beastes and fowl in the woods and coverts
                        thereunto adjacent.” It is added, with unconscious irony, that his host,
                        being a “true lover of all wild creatures, had caused a fine bear?pit to be
                        digged beyond the outer garden wall to the
                        west.” And that, on the Sunday afternoon of the Prince’s visit, there “was
                        held a most mighty baitinge,” to witness which “many noble gentlemen of the
                        neighbourhood did visit Brockhurst and lay there two nights.”
                    Later it is reported of Denzil Calmady, who was an excellent
                        churchman,—suspected even, notwithstanding his little turn for philosophy,
                        of a greater leaning towards the old Mass?Book than towards the modern Book
                        of Common Prayer,—that he notably assisted Laud, then Bishop of St. David’s,
                        in respect of certain delicate diplomacies. Laud proved not ungrateful to
                        his friend; who, in due time, was honoured with one of King James’s newly
                        instituted baronetcies, not to mention some few score, seedling, Scotch
                        firs, which, taking kindly to the light, moorland soil, increased and
                        multiplied exceedingly and sowed themselves broadcast over the face of the
                        surrounding country.
                    And, save for the vigorous upgrowth of those same fir trees, and for the fact
                        that bears and bear?pit had long given place to racehorses and to a great
                        square of stable?buildings in the hollow lying back from the main road
                        across the park, Brockhurst was substantially the same, in the year of grace
                        1842, when this truthful history actually opens, as it had been when Sir
                        Denzil’s workmen set the last tier of bricks of the last twisted
                        chimney?stack in its place. The grand, simple masses of the house—Gothic in
                        its main lines, but with much of Renaissance work in its details—still lent
                        themselves to the same broad effects of light and shadow, as it crowned the
                        southern and western sloping hillside amid its red?walled gardens and
                        pepper?pot summerhouses, its gleaming ponds and watercourses, its hawthorn
                        dotted paddocks, its ancient avenues of elm, of lime, and oak. The same
                        panellings and tapestries clothed the walls of its spacious rooms and
                        passages. The same quaint treasures adorned its fine Italian cabinets. The
                        same air of large and generous comfort pervaded it. As the child of true
                        lovers is said to bear through life, in a certain glad beauty of person and
                        of nature, witness to the glad hour of its conception, so Brockhurst, on
                        through the accumulating years, still bore witness to the fortunate historic
                        hour in which it was planned.
                    Yet, since in all things material and mortal there is always a little spot of
                        darkness, a germ of canker, at least the echo of a cry of fear—lest life
                        being too sweet, man should grow proud to the point of forgetting he is,
                        after all, but a pawn upon the board, but the sport and plaything of destiny
                        and the vast purposes of God—all was not quite well with Brockhurst. At a
                        given moment of time, the diabolic element had of necessity intruded itself. And, in the chronicles of this
                        delightful dwelling?place, even as in those of Eden itself, the angels are
                        proven not to have had things altogether their own gracious way.
                    The pierced stone parapet, which runs round three sides of the house and
                        constitutes architecturally one of its most noteworthy features, is broken
                        in the centre of the north front by a tall, stepped and sharply pointed,
                        gable, flanked on either hand by slender, four?sided pinnacles. From the
                        niche in the said gable, arrayed in sugarloaf hat, full doublet and trunk
                        hose, his head a trifle bent so that the tip of his pointed beard rests on
                        the pleatings of his marble ruff, a carpenter’s rule in his right hand, Sir
                        Denzil Calmady gazes meditatively down. Delicate, coral?like tendrils of the
                        Virginian creeper, which covers the house walls and strays over the
                        bay?windows of the Long Gallery below, twine themselves yearly about his
                        ankles and his square?toed shoes. The swallows yearly attempt to fix their
                        grey, mud nests against the flutings of the scallop?shell canopy sheltering
                        his bowed head; and are yearly ejected by cautious gardeners, armed with
                        imposing array of ladders and conscious of no little inward reluctance to
                        face the dangers of so aërial a height.
                    And here, it may not be unfitting to make further mention of that same little
                        spot of darkness, germ of canker, echo of the cry of fear, that had come to
                        mar the fair records of Brockhurst. For very certain it was that among the
                        varying scenes, moving merry or majestic, upon which Sir Denzil had looked
                        down during the two and a quarter centuries of his sojourn in the lofty
                        niche of the northern gable, there was one his eyes had never yet rested
                        upon—one matter, and that a very vital one, to which, had he applied his
                        carpenter’s rule, the measure of it must have proved persistently and
                        grievously short.
                    Along the straight walks, across the smooth lawns, and beside the brilliant
                        flower?borders of the formal gardens, he had seen generations of babies
                        toddle and stagger, with gurglings of delight, as they clutched at glancing
                        bird or butterfly far out of reach. He had seen healthy, clean?limbed,
                        boisterous lads and dainty, little maidens laugh and play, quarrel, kiss,
                        and be friends again. He had seen ardent lovers—in glowing June twilights,
                        while the nightingales shouted from the laurels, or from the coppices in the
                        park below—driven to the most desperate straits, to visions of cold poison,
                        of horse?pistols, of immediate enlistment, or the consoling arms of Betty
                        the housemaid, by the coquetries of some young lady captivating in powder and patches, or arrayed in the
                        high?waisted, agreeably?revealing costume which our grandmothers judged it
                        not improper to wear in their youth. He had seen husband and wife, too,
                        wandering hand in hand at first, tenderly hopeful and elate. And then,
                        sometimes, as the years lengthened,—growing somewhat sated with the ease of
                        their high estate,—he had seen them hand in hand no longer, waxing cold and
                        indifferent, debating even, at moments, reproachfully whether they might not
                        have invested the capital of their affections to better advantage
                        elsewhere.
                    All this, and much more, Sir Denzil had seen, and doubtless measured, for all
                        that he appeared so immovably calm and apart. But that which he had never
                        yet seen was a man of his name and race, full of years and honours, come
                        slowly forth from the stately house to sun himself, morning or evening, in
                        the comfortable shelter of the high, red?brick, rose?grown, garden
                        walls.—Looking the while, with the pensive resignation of old age, at the
                        goodly, wide?spreading prospect. Smiling again over old jokes, warming again
                        over old stories of prowess with horse and hound, or rod and gun. Feeling
                        the eyes moisten again at the memory of old loves, and of those far?away
                        first embraces which seemed to open the gates of paradise and create the
                        world anew; at remembrances of old hopes too, which proved still?born, and
                        of old distresses, which often enough proved still?born likewise,—the whole
                        of these simplified now, sanctified, the tumult of them stilled, along with
                        the hot, young blood which went to make them, by the kindly torpor of
                        increasing age and the approaching footsteps of greatly reconciling
                        Death.
                    For Sir Denzil’s male descendants, one and all,—so says tradition, so say too
                        the written and printed family records, the fine monuments in the chancel of
                        Sandyfield church, and more than one tombstone in the yew?shaded
                        churchyard,—have displayed a disquieting incapacity for living to the
                        permitted “threescore years and ten”—let alone fourscore—and dying decently,
                        in ordinary, commonplace fashion, in their beds. Mention is made of
                        casualties surprising in number and variety; and not always, it must be
                        owned, to the moral credit of those who suffered them. It is told how Sir
                        Thomas, grandson of Sir Denzil, died miserably of gangrene, caused by a tear
                        in the arm from the antler of a wounded buck. How his nephew Zachary—who
                        succeeded him—was stabbed, during a drunken brawl, in an eating?house in the
                        Strand. How the brother of the said Zachary, a gallant, young soldier, was
                        killed at the battle of Ramillies in 1706. Duelling, lightning during a
                        summer storm, even the blue?brown waters of
                        the Brockhurst Lake, in turn claim a victim. Later it is told how a second
                        Sir Denzil, after hard fighting to save his purse, was shot by highwaymen on
                        Bagshot Heath, when riding with a couple of servants—not notably
                        distinguished, as it would appear, for personal valour—from Brockhurst up to
                        town.
                    Lastly comes Courtney Calmady, who, living in excellent repute until close
                        upon sixty, seemed destined by Providence to break the evil chain of the
                        family fate. But he too goes the way of all flesh, suddenly enough, after a
                        long run with the hounds, owing to the opening of a wound, received when he
                        was little more than a lad, at the taking of Frenchtown under General
                        Proctor, during the second American war. So he too died, and they buried him
                        with much honest mourning, as befitted so kindly and honourable a gentleman;
                        and his son Richard—of whom more hereafter—reigned in his stead.
                
                
                    CHAPTER II
                    GIVING THE VERY EARLIEST INFORMATION OBTAINABLE OF THE HERO OF
                        THIS BOOK
                    IT happened in this way, towards the end of August 1842. In the grey
                        of the summer evening, as the sunset faded and the twilight gathered,
                        spreading itself tenderly over the pastures and cornfields,—over the
                        purple?green glooms of the fir forest—over the open moors, whose surface is
                        scored for miles by the turf?slane of the cottager and squatter—over the
                        clear, brown streams that trickle out of the pink and emerald mosses of the
                        peat?bogs, and gain volume and rigour as they sparkle away by woodside, and
                        green?lane, and village street—and over those secret, bosky places, in the
                        heart of the great common?lands, where the smooth, white stems and glossy
                        foliage of the self?sown hollies spring up between the roots of the beech
                        trees, where plovers cry, and stoat and weazel lurk and scamper, while the
                        old poacher’s lean, ill?favoured, rusty?coloured lurcher picks up a
                        shrieking hare, and where wandering bands of gypsies—those lithe, onyx?eyed
                        children of the magic East—still pitch their dirty, little, fungus?like
                        tents around the camp fire,—as the sunset died and the twilight thus softly
                        widened and deepened, Lady Calmady found herself, for the first time during
                        all the long summer day, alone.
                    
                    For, though no royal personage had graced the occasion with his presence, nor
                        had bears suffered martyrdom to promote questionably amiable mirth,
                        Brockhurst, during the past week, had witnessed a series of festivities
                        hardly inferior to those which marked Sir Denzil’s historic house?warming.
                        Young Sir Richard Calmady had brought home his bride, and it was but fitting
                        the whole countryside should see her. So all and sundry received generous
                        entertainment according to their degree.—Labourers, tenants,
                        school?children. Weary old?age from Pennygreen poorhouse, taking its
                        pleasure of cakes and ale half suspiciously in the broad sunshine. The
                        leading shopkeepers of Westchurch, and their humbler brethren from Farley
                        Row. All the country gentry too.—Lord and Lady Fallowfeild and a goodly
                        company from Whitney Park, Lord Denier and a large contingent from Grimshott
                        Place, the Cathcarts of Newlands, and many more persons of undoubted
                        consequence—specially perhaps in their own eyes. Not to mention a small army
                        of local clergy—who ever display a touching alacrity in attending festivals,
                        even those of a secular character—with camp?followers, in the form of wives
                        and families, galore.
                    And now, at last, all was over,—balls, sports, theatricals, dinners—the last,
                        in the case of the labourers, with the unlovely adjunct of an ox roasted
                        whole. Even the final garden?party, designed to include such persons as it
                        was, socially speaking, a trifle difficult to place—Image, owner of the big
                        Shotover brewery, for instance, who was shouldering his way so vigorously
                        towards fortune and a seat on the bench of magistrates; the younger members
                        of the firm of Goteway & Fox, solicitors of Westchurch; Goodall, the
                        Methodist miller from Parson’s Holt, and certain sporting yeoman farmers
                        with their comely womankind—even this final entertainment, with all its
                        small triumphs and heart?burnings, flutterings of youthful inexperience,
                        aspirations, condescensions, had gone, like the rest of the week’s
                        junketings, to swell the sum of things accomplished, of all that which is
                        past and done with and will never come again.
                    Fully an hour ago, Dr. Knott, under plea of waiting cases, had hitched his
                        ungainly, thick?set figure into his high gig.
                    “Plenty of fine folks, eh, Timothy?” he said to the ferret?faced groom beside
                        him, as he gathered up the reins, and the brown mare, knowing the hand on
                        her mouth, laid herself out to her work. “Handsome young couple as anybody
                        need wish to see. Not much business doing there for me, I fancy, unless it
                        lies in the nursery line.”
                    
                    “Say those Brockhurst folks mostly dies airly though,”. remarked Timothy,
                        with praiseworthy effort at professional encouragement.
                    “Eh! so you’ve heard that story too, have you?”—and John Knott drew the lash
                        gently across the hollow of the mare’s back.
                    “This ’ere Sir Richard’s the third baronet I’ve a?seen, and I bean’t so very
                        old neither.”
                    The doctor looked down at the spare little man with a certain snarling
                        affection, as he said:—“Oh no! I’m not kept awake o’ nights by the fear of
                        losing you, Timothy. Your serviceable old carcass ’ll hang together for a
                        good while yet.”—Then his rough eyebrows drew into a line, and he stared
                        thoughtfully down the long space of the clean gravel road under the meeting
                        branches of the lime trees.
                    The Whitney char à bancs had driven off but
                        a few minutes later, to the admiration of all beholders; yet not, it must be
                        admitted, without a measure of inward perturbation on the part of that noble
                        charioteer, Lord Fallowfeild. Her Ladyship was constitutionally timid, and
                        he was none too sure of the behaviour of his leaders in face of the string
                        of very miscellaneous vehicles waiting to take up. However, the illustrious
                        party happily got off without any occasion for Lady Fallowfeild’s screaming.
                        Then the ardour of departure became universal, and in broken procession the
                        many carriages, phætons, gigs, traps, pony?chaises streamed away from
                        Brockhurst House, north, south, and east, and west.
                    Lady Calmady had bidden her guests farewell at the side?door opening on to
                        the terrace, before they passed through the house to the main entrance in
                        the south front. Last to go, as he had been first to come, was that worthy
                        person, Thomas Caryll, the rector of Sandyfield. Mild, white?haired,
                        deficient in chin, he had a natural leaning towards women in general, and
                        towards those of the upper classes in particular. Katherine Calmady’s
                        radiant youth, her courtesy, her undeniable air of distinction, and a
                        certain gracious gaiety which belonged to her, had, combined with
                        unaccustomed indulgence in claret cup, gone far to turn the good man’s head
                        during the afternoon. Regardless of the slightly flustered remonstrances of
                        his wife and daughters, he lingered, expending himself in innocently
                        confused compliment, supplemented by prophecies regarding the blessings
                        destined to descend upon Brockhurst and the mother parish of Sandyfield in
                        virtue of Lady Calmady’s advent.
                    But at length he also departed. Katherine waited, her eyes full of laughter,
                        until Mr. Caryll’s footsteps died away on the stone quarries of the great hall within. Then she gently drew the heavy
                        door to, and stepped out on to the centre of the terrace. The grass slopes
                        of the park—dotted with thorn trees and beds of bracken,—the lime avenue
                        running along the ridge of the hill, the ragged edge of the fir forest to
                        the east, and the mass of the house, all these were softened to a
                        vagueness—as the landscape in a dream—by the deepening twilight. An immense
                        repose pervaded the whole scene. It affected Katherine to a certain
                        seriousness. Social excitements and responsibilities, the undoubted success
                        that had attended her maiden essay as hostess during the past week, shrank
                        to trivial proportions. Another order of emotion arose in her. She became
                        sensible of a necessity to take counsel with herself.
                    She moved slowly along the terrace, paused in the arcaded garden?hall at the
                        end of it—the carven stone benches and tables of which showed somewhat
                        ghostly in the dimness—to put off her bonnet and push back the lace scarf
                        from her shoulders. An increasing solemnity was upon her. There were things
                        to think of—things deep and strange. She must needs place them, make an
                        effort, anyhow, to do so. And, in face of this necessity, came an instinct
                        to rid herself of all small impeding conventionalities even in the matter of
                        dress. For there was in Katherine that inherent desire of harmony with her
                        surroundings, that natural sense of fitness, which—given certain technical
                        aptitudes—goes to make a great dramatic artist. But, since in her case such
                        technical aptitudes were either non?existent or wholly latent, it followed
                        that, save in nice questions of private honour, she was quite the least
                        self?conscious and self?critical of human beings. Now, as she passed out
                        under the archway on to the square lawn of the troco?ground, bare?headed, in
                        her pale dress, a sweet seriousness filling all her mind, even as the sweet,
                        summer twilight filled all the valley and veiled the gleaming surface of the
                        Long Water far below, she felt wholly in sympathy with the aspect and
                        sentiment of the place. Indeed it appeared to her, just then, that the four
                        months of her marriage, the five months of her engagement, even the
                        twenty?two years which made up all the sum of her earthly living, were a
                        prelude merely to the present hour and to that which lay immediately
                        ahead.
                    Yet the prelude had, in truth, been a pretty enough piece of music.
                        Katherine’s experience had but few black patches in it as yet. Furnished
                        with a fair and healthy body, with fine breeding, with a character in which
                        the pride and grit of her North Country ancestry were tempered by the poetic
                        instincts and quick wit which came to her
                        with her mother’s Irish blood, Katherine Ormiston started better furnished
                        than most to play the great game that all are bound to play—whether they
                        will or no—with fate. Mrs. Ormiston, still young and beloved, had died in
                        bringing this, her only daughter, into the world; and her husband had looked
                        somewhat coldly upon the poor baby in consequence. There was an almost
                        misanthropic vein in the autocratic land?owner and iron?master. He had three
                        sons already, and therefore found but little use for this woman?child. So,
                        while pluming himself on his clear judgment and unswerving reason, he
                        resented, most unreasonably, her birth, since it took his wife from him.
                        Such is the irony of things, forever touching man on the raw, proving his
                        weakness in that he holds his strongest point! In fact, however, Katherine
                        suffered but slightly from the poor welcome that greeted her advent in the
                        grey, many?towered house upon the Yorkshire coast. For her great?aunt, Mrs.
                        St. Quentin, speedily gathered the small creature into her still beautiful
                        arms, and lavished upon it both tenderness and wealth, along—as it grew to a
                        companionable age—with the wisdom of a mind ripened by wide acquaintance
                        with men and with public affairs. Mrs. St. Quentin—famous in Dublin, London,
                        Paris, as a beauty and a wit—had passed her early womanhood amid the tumult
                        of great events. She had witnessed the horrors of the Terror, the splendid
                        amazements of the First Empire; and could still count among her friends and
                        correspondents, politicians and literary men of no mean standing. A legend
                        obtains that Lord Byron sighed for her—and in vain. For, as Katherine came
                        to know later, this woman had loved once, daringly, finally, yet without
                        scandal—though the name of him whom she loved, and who loved her, was not,
                        it must be owned, St. Quentin. And perhaps it was just this, this hidden and
                        somewhat tragic romance, which kept her so young, so fresh; kept her
                        unworldly, though moving so freely in the world; had given her that
                        exquisite sense of relative values and that knowledge of the heart, which
                        leads, as the divine Plato has testified, to the highest and most
                        reconciling philosophy.
                    Thus, the delicately brilliant old lady and the radiant young lady lived
                        together delightfully enough, spending their winters in Paris in a pretty
                        apartment in the rue de Rennes—shared with one Mademoiselle de Mirancourt,
                        whose friendship with Mrs. St. Quentin dated from their schooldays at the
                        convent of the Sacré Cœur. Spring and autumn found Katherine and her
                        great?aunt in London. While, in summer, there was always a long visit to
                        Ormiston Castle, looking out from the cliff?edge upon the restless North Sea. Lovers came in due
                        course. For over and above its own shapeliness—which surely was reason
                        enough—Katherine’s hand was well worth winning from the worldly point of
                        view. She would have money; and Mrs. St. Quentin’s influence would count for
                        much in the case of a great?nephew?by?marriage who aspired to a
                        parliamentary or diplomatic career. But the lovers also went, for Katherine
                        asked a great deal—not so much of them, perhaps, as of herself. She had
                        taken an idea, somehow, that marriage, to be in the least satisfactory, must
                        be based on love; and that love, worth the name, is an essentially two?sided
                        business. Indirectly the girl had learnt much on this difficult subject from
                        her great?aunt; and with characteristic directness had agreed with herself
                        to wait till her heart was touched, if she waited a lifetime—though of
                        exactly in what either her heart, or the touching of it, consisted she was
                        deliciously innocent as yet.
                    And then, in the summer of 1841, Sir Richard Calmady came to Ormiston. He and
                        her brother Roger had been at Eton together. Katherine remembered him, years
                        ago, as a well?bred and courteously contemptuous schoolboy, upon whose
                        superior mind, small female creatures—busy about dolls, and victims of the
                        athletic restrictions imposed by petticoats—made but slight impression.
                        Latterly Sir Richard’s name had come to be one to conjure with in racing
                        circles, thanks to the performances of certain horses bred and trained at
                        the Brockhurst stables; though some critics, it is true, deplored his
                        tendency to neglect the older and more legitimate sport of flat?racing in
                        favour of steeple?chasing. It was said he aspired to rival the long list of
                        victories achieved by Mr. Elmore’s Gaylad and Lottery, and the successes of
                        Peter Simple the famous grey. This much Katherine had heard of him from her
                        brother. And, having her naughty turns—as what charming woman has not?—had
                        set him down as probably a rough sort of person, notwithstanding his wealth
                        and good connections, a kind of gentleman?jockey, upon whom it would be easy
                        to take a measure of pretty revenge for his boyish indifference to her
                        existence. But the meeting and the young man, alike, turned out quite other
                        than she had anticipated. For she found a person as well furnished in all
                        polite and social arts as herself, with no flavour of the stable about him.
                        She had reckoned on one whose scholarship would carry him no further than a
                        few stock quotations from Horace, and whose knowledge of art would begin and
                        end with a portrait of himself presented by the members of a local hunt.
                        Therefore it was a little surprising—possibly a little mortifying to
                            her—to hear him talking over obscure
                        passages in Spenser’s Faerie Queene with Mrs. St. Quentin,
                        before the end of the dinner, and nicely apprising the relative merits of
                        the water?colour sketches, by Turner, that hung on either side the
                        drawing?room fireplace.
                    Nor did Katherine’s surprises end here. An unaccountable something was taking
                        place within her, that opened up a whole new range of emotion. She, the
                        least moody of young women, had strange fluctuations of temper, finding
                        herself buoyantly happy one hour, the next pensive, filled with timidity and
                        self?distrust—not to mention little fits of gusty anger, and purposeless
                        jealousy which took her, hurting her pride shrewdly. She grew anxiously
                        solicitous as to her personal appearance. This dress would not please her
                        nor that. The image of her charming, oval face and well?set head ceased to
                        satisfy her. Surely a woman’s hair should be either positively blond or
                        black, not this undeterminate brown, with warm lights in it? She feared her
                        mouth was not small enough, the lips too full and curved for prettiness. She
                        wished her eyes less given to change, under their dark lashes, from clear
                        grey?blue to a nameless colour, like the gloom of the pools of a woodland
                        stream, as her feelings changed from gladness to distress. She feared her
                        complexion was too bright, and then not bright enough. And, all the while, a
                        certain shame possessed her that she should care at all about such trivial
                        matters; for life had grown suddenly larger and more august. Books she had
                        read, faces she had watched a hundred times, the vast horizon looking
                        eastward over the unquiet sea, all these gained a new value and meaning
                        which at once enthralled and agitated her thought.
                    Sir Richard Calmady stayed a fortnight at Ormiston. And the two ladies
                        crossed to Paris earlier, that autumn, than was their custom. Katherine was
                        not in her usual good health, and Mrs. St. Quentin desired change of air and
                        scene on her account. She took Mademoiselle de Mirancourt into her
                        confidence, hinting at causes for her restlessness and wayward, little
                        humours unacknowledged by the girl herself. Then the two elder women wrapped
                        Katherine about with an atmosphere of—if possible—deeper tenderness than
                        before; mingling sentiment with their gaiety, and gaiety with their
                        sentiment, and the delicate respect which refrains from question with
                        both.
                    One keenly bright, October afternoon Richard Calmady called in the rue de
                        Rennes. It appeared he had come to Paris with the intention of remaining
                        there for an indefinite period. He called again and yet again, making
                        himself charming—a touch of deference
                        tempering his natural suavity—alike to his hostesses and to such of their
                        guests as he happened to meet. It was the fashion of fifty years ago to
                        conduct affairs, even those of the heart, with a dignified absence of
                        precipitation. The weeks passed, while Sir Richard became increasingly
                        welcome in some of the very best houses in Paris.—And Katherine? It must be
                        owned Katherine was not without some heartaches, which she proudly tried to
                        deny to herself and conceal from others. But eventually—it was on the
                        morning after the ball at the British Embassy—the man spoke and the maid
                        answered, and the old order changed, giving place to new, in the daily life
                        of the pretty apartment of the rue de Rennes.
                    About five months later the marriage took place in London; and Sir Richard
                        and Lady Calmady started forth on a wedding journey of the old?fashioned
                        type. They travelled up the Rhine, and posted, all in the delicious, early
                        summer weather, through Northern Italy, as far as Florence. They returned by
                        Paris. And there, Mrs. St. Quentin watching—in almost painful anxiety—to see
                        how it fared with her recovered darling, was wholly satisfied, and gave
                        thanks. For she perceived that, in this case at least, marriage was no
                        legal, conventional connection leaving the heart emptier than it found
                        it—the bartering of precious freedom for a joyless bondage—an obligation,
                        weary in the present, and hopeless of alleviation in the future, save by the
                        reaching of that far?distant, heavenly country, concerning which it is
                        comfortably assured us “that there they neither marry nor are given in
                        marriage.” For the Katherine who came back to her was at once the same, and
                        yet another Katherine—one who carried her head more proudly and stepped as
                        though she was mistress of the whole fair earth, but whose merry wit had
                        lost its little edge of sarcasm, whose sympathy was quicker and more
                        instinctive, whose voice had taken fuller and more caressing tones, and in
                        whose sweet eyes sat a steady content good to see. Then, suddenly, Mrs. St.
                        Quentin began to feel her age as she had never, consciously, felt it before;
                        and to be very willing to fold her hands and recite her Nunc
                            Dimittis. For, in looking on the faces of the bride and
                        bridegroom, she had looked once again on the face of Love itself, and had
                        stood within the court of the temple of that Uranian Venus whose unsullied
                        glory is secure here and hereafter, since to her it is given to discover to
                        her worshippers the innermost secret of existence, thereby fencing them
                        forever against the plagues of change, delusion, and decay. Love began
                        gently to loosen the cords of life, and to draw Lucia St. Quentin home—home
                        to that dear dwelling?place which, as we
                        fondly trust—since God Himself is Love—is reserved for all true lovers
                        beyond the grave and Gates of Death. Thus one flower falls as another opens,
                        and to?day, however sweet, is only won across the corpse of yesterday.
                    And it was some perception of just this—the ceaseless push of event following
                        on event, the ceaseless push of the yet unborn struggling to force the doors
                        of life—which moved Katherine to seriousness, as she stood alone on the
                        smooth expanse of the troco?ground, in the soft, all?covering twilight, at
                        the close of the day’s hospitality.
                    On her right the house, and its delicate, twisted chimneys, showed dark
                        against the fading rose of the western sky. The air, rich with the fragrance
                        of the red?walled gardens behind her,—with the scent of jasmine, heliotrope
                        and clove carnations, ladies?lilies and mignonette,—was stirred, now and
                        again, by wandering winds, cool from the spaces of the open moors. While, as
                        the last roll of departing wheels died out along the avenues, the voices of
                        the woodland began to reassert themselves. Wild?fowl called from the
                        alder?fringed Long Water. Night?hawks churred as they beat on noiseless
                        wings above the beds of bramble and bracken. A cock pheasant made a most
                        admired stir and keckling in seeing his wife and brood to roost on the
                        branches of one of King James’s age?old Scotch firs.
                    And this sense of nature coming back to claim her own, to make known her
                        eternal supremacy, now that the fret of man’s little pleasuring had passed,
                        was very grateful to Katherine Calmady. Her soul cried out to be free, for a
                        time, to contemplate, to fully apprehend and measure, its own happiness. It
                        needed to stand aside, so that the love given and all given with that
                        love—even these matters of house and gardens, of men?servants and
                        maid?servants, of broad acres, all the poetry, in short, of great
                        possessions—might be seen in perspective. For Katherine had that
                        necessity—in part intellectual, in part practical, and common to all who
                        possess the gift for rule—to resist the confusing importunity of detail, and
                        to grasp intelligently the Whole, which alone gives to detail coherence and
                        purpose. Her mind was not one—perhaps unhappily—which is contented to merely
                        play with bricks, but which demands the plan of the building into which
                        those bricks should grow. And she wanted, just now, to lay hold of the plan
                        of the fair building of her own life. And to this end the solitude, the
                        evening quiet, the restful unrest of the forest and its wild creatures,
                        should surely have ministered. She moved forward and sat on the broad, stone balustrade which,
                        topping the buttressed masonry that supports it above the long downward
                        slope of the park, encloses the troco?ground on the south.
                    The landscape lay drowned in the mystery of the summer night. And Katherine,
                        looking out into it, tried to think clearly, tried to range the many new
                        experiences of the last few months and to reckon with them. But her brain
                        refused to work obediently to her will. She felt strangely hurried for all
                        the surrounding quiet.
                    One train of thought, which she had been busy enough by day and honestly
                        sleepy enough at night to keep at arm’s length during this time of
                        home?coming and entertaining, now invaded and possessed her mind—filling it
                        at once with a new and overwhelming movement of tenderness yet, for all her
                        high courage, with a certain fear. She cried out for a little space of
                        liberty, a little space in which to take breath. She wanted to pause, here
                        in the fulness of her content. But no pause was granted her. She was so
                        happy, she asked nothing more. But something more was forced upon her. And
                        so it happened that, in realising the ceaseless push of event on event, the
                        ceaseless dying of dear to?day in the service of unborn to?morrow, her
                        gentle seriousness touched on regret.
                    How long she remained lost in such pensive reflections Lady Calmady could not
                        have said. Suddenly the terrace door slammed. A moment later a man’s
                        footsteps echoed across the flags of the garden?hall.
                    “Katherine,” Richard Calmady called, somewhat imperatively, “Katherine, are
                        you there?”
                    She turned and stood watching him as he came rapidly across the turf.
                    “Yes, I am here,” she said. “Do you want me?”
                    “Do I want you?” he answered curtly. “Don’t I always want you?”
                    A little sob rose in her throat—she knew not why, for, hearing the tone of
                        his voice, her sadness was strangely assuaged.
                    “I could not find you,” he went on. “And I got into an absurd state of
                        panic—sent Roger in one direction, and Julius in another, to look for
                        you.”
                    “Whereupon Roger, probably, posted down to the stables, and Julius up to the
                        chapel to search. Where the heart dwells there the feet follow. Meanwhile,
                        you came straight here and found me yourself.”
                    
                    “I might have known I should do that.”
                    The importunate thought returned upon Katherine, and with it a touch of her
                        late melancholy.
                    “Ah! one knows nothing for certain when one is frightened,” she said. She
                        moved closer to him, holding out her hand. “Here,” she continued, “you are a
                        little too shadowy, too unsubstantial, in this light, Dick. I would rather
                        make more sure of your presence.”
                    Richard Calmady laughed very gently. Then the two stood silent, looking out
                        over the dim valley, hand in hand.—The scent of the gardens was about them.
                        Moving lights showed through the many windows of the great house. The
                        water?fowl called sleepily. The churring of the night?hawks was continuous,
                        soothing as the hum of a spinning?wheel. Somewhere, away in the Warren, a
                        fox barked. In the eastern sky, the young moon began to climb above the
                        ragged edge of the firs.—When they spoke again it was very simply, in broken
                        sentences, as children speak. The poetry of their relation to one another
                        and the scene about them were too full of meaning, too lovely, to call for
                        polish of rhetoric, or pointing by epigram.
                    “Tell me,” Katherine said, “were you satisfied? Did I entertain your people
                        prettily?”
                    “Prettily? You entertained them as they had never been entertained
                        before—like a queen—and they knew it. But why did you stay out here
                        alone?”
                    “To think—and to look at Brockhurst.”
                    “Yes, it’s worth looking at now,” he said. “It was like a body wanting a soul
                        till you came.”
                    “But you loved it?” Katherine reasoned.
                    “Oh yes! because I believed the soul would come some day. Brockhurst, and the
                        horses, and the books, all helped to make the time pass while I was
                        waiting.” 
                    “Waiting for what?”
                    “Why, for you, of course, you dear, silly sweet! Haven’t I always been
                        waiting for you—just precisely and wholly you, nothing more or less—all
                        through my life, all through all conceivable and inconceivable lives, since
                        before the world began?”
                    Katherine’s breath came with a fluttering sigh. She let her head fall back
                        against his shoulder. Her eyes closed involuntarily. She loved these fond
                        exaggerations—as what woman does not who has had the good fortune to hear
                        them? They pierced her with a delicious pain. And—perhaps therefore, perhaps
                        not unwisely—she believed them true.
                    
                    “Are you tired?” he asked presently.
                    Katherine looked up smiling, and shook her head.
                    “Not too tired to be up early to?morrow morning and come out with me to see
                        the horses galloped? Sultan will give you no trouble. He is well?seasoned
                        and merely looks on at things in general with intelligent interest, goes
                        like a lamb and stands like a rock.”
                    While her husband was speaking Katherine straightened herself up, and moved a
                        little from him though still holding his hand. Her languor passed, and her
                        eyes grew large and black.
                    “I think, perhaps, I had better not go to?morrow, Dick,” she said slowly.
                    “Ah! you are tired, you poor dear! No wonder, after the week’s work you have
                        had. Another day will do just as well. Only I want you to come out sometimes
                        in the first blush of the morning, before the day has had time to grow
                        commonplace, while the gossamers are still hung with dew, and the mists are
                        in hollows, and the horses are heady from the fresh air and the light. You
                        will like it all, Kitty. It is rather inspiring. But it will keep. To?morrow
                        I’ll let you rest in peace.”
                    “Oh no! it is not that,” Katherine said quickly.—The importunate thought was
                        upon her again, clamouring, not only to be recognised, but fairly owned to
                        and permitted to pass the doors of speech. And a certain modesty made her
                        shrink from this. To know something in the secret of your own heart, to tell
                        it, thereby making it a hard, concrete fact, outside yourself, over which,
                        in a sense, you cease to have control, are two such very different matters!
                        Katherine trembled on the edge of her confession; though that to be
                        confessed was, after all, but the natural crown of her love.
                    “I think I ought not to ride now—for a time, Dick.” All the blood rushed into
                        her face and throat, and then ebbed, leaving her very white in the growing
                        darkness.—“You have given me a child,” she said.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER III
                    TOUCHING MATTERS CLERICAL AND CONTROVERSIAL
                    BROCKHURST had rarely appeared more blessed by spacious sunshine and
                        stately cheerfulness than during the remaining weeks of that summer. A
                        spirit of unclouded serenity possessed the place, both indoors and out. If
                        rain fell, it was only at night. And this, as so much else, Julius March
                        noted duly in his diary.
                    For that was the period of elaborate private chronicles, when persons of
                        intelligence and position still took themselves, their doings, and their
                        emotions, with most admired seriousness. Natural science, the great
                        leveller, had hardly stepped in as yet. Therefore it was that already
                        Julius’s diary ran into many stout, manuscript volumes, each in turn soberly
                        but richly bound, with silver clasp and lock complete, so soon as its final
                        page was written. Begun when he first went up to Oxford, some thirteen years
                        earlier, it formed an intimate history of the influences of the Tractarian
                        Movement upon a scholarly mind and delicately spiritual nature. At the
                        commencement of his Oxford career he had come into close relations with some
                        of the leaders of the movement. And the conception of an historic church,
                        endowed with mystic powers,—conveyed through an unbroken line of priests
                        from the age of the apostles—the orderly round of vigil, fast, and festival,
                        the secret, introspective joys of penance and confession, the fascinations
                        of the strictly religious life as set before him in eloquent public
                        discourse or persuasive private conversation,—had combined to kindle an
                        imagination very insufficiently satisfied by the lean spiritual meats
                        offered it during an Evangelical childhood and youth. Julius yielded himself
                        up to his instructors with passionate self?abandon. He took orders, and
                        remained on at Oxford—being a fellow of his college—working earnestly for
                        the cause he had so at heart. Eventually he became a member of the select
                        band of disciples that dwelt, uncomfortably, supported by visions of
                        reactionary reform at once austere and beneficent, in the range of disused
                        stable?buildings at Littlemore.
                    Of the storm and stress of this religious war, its triumphs, its defeats, its
                        many agitations, Julius’s diaries told with a deep, if chastened,
                        enthusiasm. His was a singularly pure nature, unmoved by the primitive
                        desires which usually inflame young blood.
                        Ideas heated him; while the lust of the eye and the pride of life left him
                        almost scornfully cold. He strove earnestly, of course, to bring the flesh
                        into subjection to the spirit; which was, calmly considered, a slight waste
                        of time, since the said flesh showed the least possible inclination towards
                        revolt. The earlier diaries contain pathetic exaggerations of the slightest
                        indiscretion. Innocent and virtuous persons have ever been prone to such
                        little manias of self?accusation! Later, the flesh did assert itself, though
                        in a hardly licentious manner. Oxford fogs and damp, along with plain living
                        and high thinking, acting upon a constitution naturally far from robust,
                        produced a commonplace but most disabling nemesis in the form of colds,
                        coughs, and chronic asthma. Julius did not greatly care. He was in that
                        exalted frame of mind in which martyrdom, even by phthisis or bronchial
                        affections, is immeasurably preferable to no martyrdom at all. Perhaps
                        fortunately his relations, and even his Oxford friends, took a quite other
                        view of the matter, and insisted upon his using all legitimate means to
                        prolong his life.
                    Julius left Oxford with intense regret. It was the Holy City of the
                        Tractarian Movement; and at this moment the progress of that Movement was
                        the one thing worth living for, if live indeed he must. He went forth
                        bewailing his exile and enforced idleness, as a man bewails the loss of the
                        love of his youth. For a time he travelled in Italy and in the south of
                        France. On his return to England he went to stay with his friend and cousin,
                        Sir Richard Calmady. Brockhurst House had always been extremely congenial to
                        him. Its suites of handsome rooms, the inlaid, marble chimneypieces of which
                        reach up to the frieze of the heavily?moulded ceilings, its wide passages
                        and stairways, their carved balusters and newel?posts, the treasures of its
                        library—now overflowing the capacity of the two rooms originally designed
                        for them, and filling ranges of bookcases between the bay?windows of the
                        Long Gallery which runs the whole length of the first floor from east to
                        west, the chapel in the southern wing, its richly furnished altar and the
                        glories of its famous, stained?glass windows—all these were very grateful to
                        his taste. While the light, dry, upland air and near neighbourhood of the
                        fir forest eased the physical discomforts from which, at times, he still
                        suffered shrewdly.
                    He found the atmosphere of the place both soothing and steadying. And of
                        precisely this he stood sorely in need just now. For it must be admitted
                        that a change had come over the spirit of Julius March’s great,
                        ecclesiastical dream. Absence from Oxford and foreign travel had tended at
                        once to widen and modify his thought. He
                        had seen the Tractarian Movement from a distance, in due perspective. He had
                        also seen Catholicism at close quarters. He had realised that the logical
                        consequence of the teaching of the former could be nothing less than
                        unqualified submission to the latter. On his return to England he learned
                        that more than one of his Oxford friends was arriving, reluctantly, at the
                        same conclusion. Then there arose within him the fiercest struggle his
                        gentle nature had ever yet known. He was torn by the desire to go forward,
                        risking all, with those whom he reverenced; yet was restrained by a sense of
                        honour. For there was, in Julius, a strain of obstinate, almost fanatic,
                        loyalty. To the Anglican Church he had pledged himself. Through her ministry
                        he had received illumination. To the work of her awakening he had given all
                        his young enthusiasm. How then could he desert her? Her rites might be
                        maimed. The scandal of schism might tarnish her fair fame. Accusations of
                        sloth and lukewarmness might not unjustly be preferred against her. All this
                        he admitted. And it was very characteristic of the man that, just because he
                        did admit it, he remained within her fold.
                    Yet the decision was dislocating to all his thought, even as the struggle had
                        been. It left him bruised. It cruelly shook his self?confidence. For he was
                        not one of those persons upon whom the shipwreck of long?cherished hopes and
                        purposes have a stimulating effect, filling them merely with a buoyant
                        satisfaction at the opportunity afforded them of beginning all over again!
                        Julius was oppressed by the sense of a great failure. The diaries of this
                        period are but sorrowful reading. He believed he should go softly all his
                        days; and, from a certain point of view, in this he was right.
                    And it was here that Sir Richard Calmady intervened. He had watched his
                        cousin’s struggle, had accepted its reality, sympathising through friendship
                        rather than through moral or intellectual agreement. For he was one of those
                        fortunate mortals who, while possessing a strong sense of God, have but
                        small necessity to define Him. Many of Julius’s keenest agonies appeared to
                        him subjective, a matter of words and phrases. Yet he respected them, out of
                        the sincere regard he bore the man who suffered them. He did more. He tried
                        a practical remedy. Courteously, as one asking rather than conferring a
                        favour, he invited Julius to remain at Brockhurst, on a fair stipend, as
                        domestic chaplain and librarian.
                    “In the fulness of your generosity towards me you are creating a costly
                        sinecure,” Julius had remonstrated.
                    
                    “Not in the least. I am selfishly trying to secure myself a most welcome
                        companion, by asking you to undertake a very modest cure of souls and to
                        catalogue my books, when you might be filling some important post and
                        qualifying for a bishopric.”
                    Julius had shaken his head sadly enough. “The high places of the Church are
                        not for me,” he said, “neither are her great adventures.”
                    Thus did Julius March, somewhat broken both in health and spirit, become a
                        carpet?priest. The trumpet blasts of controversy reached him as echoes
                        merely, while his days passed in peaceful, if pensive, monotony. He read
                        prayers morning and evening to the assembled household in the chapel;
                        reduced the confusion of the library shelves, doing a fair amount of study,
                        both secular and theological, during the process; rode with his cousin on
                        fine afternoons to distant farms, by high?banked lanes in the lowland, or
                        across the open moors; visited the lodges, or the keepers’ and gardeners’
                        cottages within the limits of the park, on foot. Now and again he took a
                        service, or preached a sermon, for good Mr. Caryll of Sandyfield, in whose
                        amiable mind instinctive admiration of those, even distantly, related to
                        persons of wealth and position jostled an equally instinctive terror of Mr.
                        March’s “well?known Romanising tendencies.” And in that there was, surely, a
                        touch of the irony of fate! Lastly, Julius did his utmost to exercise an
                        influence for good over the twenty and odd boys at the racing stables—an
                        unpromising generation at best, the majority of whom, he feared, accepted
                        his efforts for their moral and spiritual welfare with the same somewhat
                        brutish philosophy with which they accepted Tom Chifney, the trainer’s
                        rough?and?ready system of discipline, and the thousand and one vagaries of
                        the fine?limbed, queer?tempered horses which were at once the glory and
                        torment of their young lives.
                    Things had gone on thus for rather more than a year, when Richard Calmady
                        married. Julius was perhaps inclined, beforehand, to underrate the
                        importance of that event. He was singularly innocent, so far, of the whole
                        question of woman. He had no sisters. At Oxford he had lived exclusively
                        among men, while the Tractarian Movement had offered a sufficient outlet to
                        all his emotion. The severe and exquisite verses of the “Lyra Apostolica”
                        fitly expressed the passions of his heart. To the Church, at once his mother
                        and his mistress, he had wholly given his first love. He had gone so far,
                        indeed, in a rapture of devotion one Easter Day, during the celebration
                            of the Holy Eucharist, as to impose
                        upon himself a vow of lifelong celibacy. This he did—let it be added—without
                        either the sanction or knowledge of his spiritual advisers. The vow,
                        therefore, remained unwitnessed and unratified, but he held it inviolable
                        nevertheless. And it lay but lightly upon him, joyfully almost—rather as a
                        ridding of himself of possible perturbations and obsessions, than as an act
                        of most austere self?renunciation. In his ignorance he merely went forward
                        with an increased freedom of spirit. All of which is set down, not without
                        underlying pathos, in the diary of that date.
                    And that freedom of spirit remained by him, notwithstanding his altered
                        circumstances. It even served—indirectly, since none knew the fact of his
                        self?dedication save himself—as a basis of pleasant intercourse with the
                        women of his own social standing whom he now met. It served him thus in
                        respect of Lady Calmady, who accepted him as a member of her new household
                        with charming kindliness, treating him with a gentle solicitude born of pity
                        for his far from robust health and for the mental struggles which she
                        understood him to have passed through.
                    Many persons, it must be owned, described Julius as remarkably ugly. But he
                        did not strike Katherine thus. His heavy, black hair, beardless face and
                        sallow skin—rendered dull and colourless, his features thickened, though not
                        actually scarred, by small?pox which he had had as a child,—his sensitive
                        mouth, and the questioning expression of his short?sighted, brown eyes,
                        reminded her of a fifteenth?century, Florentine portrait that had always
                        challenged her attention when she passed it in the vestibule of a certain
                        obscure, yet aristocratic, Parisian hotel, on the left bank—well
                        understood—of the Seine.
                    The man of the portrait was narrow?chested, clothed in black. So was Julius
                        March. He had long?fingered, finely shaped hands. So had Julius. He gave her
                        the impression of a person endowed with a capacity of prolonged and silent
                        self?sacrifice. So did Julius. She wondered about his story. For Julius, at
                        least—little as she or he then suspected it—the deepest places of the story
                        still lay ahead.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV
                    RAISING PROBLEMS WHICH IT IS THE PURPOSE OF THIS HISTORY TO RESOLVE
                    IT was not without a movement of inward thanksgiving that, the
                        festivities connected with Sir Richard and Lady Calmady’s home?coming being
                        over, Julius March returned to his labours in the Brockhurst library.
                        Humanity at first hand, whatever its social standing or its pursuits, was,
                        in truth, always slightly disturbing to him. He felt more at home when
                        dealing with conclusions than with the data that go to build up those
                        conclusions, with the thoughts of men printed and bound, than with the
                        urgent raw material from which those thoughts arise. Revelation,
                        authority—these were still his watchwords. And, in face of them, even the
                        harmless spectacle of a country neighbourhood at play, let alone the
                        spectacle of the human comedy generally, is singularly confusing.
                    He sought the soothing companionship of books with even heightened relief one
                        fair morning some three weeks later. For Mrs. St. Quentin and Mademoiselle
                        de Mirancourt had arrived at Brockhurst the day previously, and Julius had
                        been sensible of certain perturbations of mind in meeting these two ladies,
                        one of whom was a devout Catholic by inheritance and personal conviction,
                        while the other, though nominally a member of his own communion, was known
                        to temper her religion with a wide, if refined, philosophy. Conversation had
                        drifted towards serious subjects in the course of the evening, and Mrs. St.
                        Quentin had admitted, with a playful deprecation of her dear friend’s rigid
                        religious attitude, that no one creed, no one system, offered an adequate
                        solution of the infinite mystery and complexity of life—as she knew it. The
                        serene adherence of one charming and experienced woman to an authority which
                        he had rejected, the almost equally serene indifference on the part of the
                        other to the revelation he held as absolute and final, troubled Julius.
                        Small wonder then, that early, after a solitary breakfast, he retired upon
                        the society of the odd volumes cluttering the shelves of the Long Gallery,
                        that he sorted, arranged, catalogued, grateful for that dulling of thought
                        which mechanical labour brings with it.
                    But fate was malicious, and elected to make a sport of Julius this morning.
                        Unexpectedly importunate human drama obtruded itself, the deep places of the
                        story—such as, in the innocence of his
                        ascetic refinement, he had never dreamed of—began to reveal themselves.
                    He had climbed the wide, carpeted steps of the library ladder and seated
                        himself on the topmost one, at right angles to a topmost shelf the contents
                        of which he proposed to investigate, duster and notebook in hand. The vast
                        perspective of the gallery lengthened out before him, cool, faint?tinted,
                        full of a diffused and silvery light. The self?coloured, unpainted panelling
                        of the walls and bookcases—but one shade warmer in tone than that of the
                        stone mullions and transoms of the lofty windows?gave an indescribable
                        delicacy of effect to the atmosphere of the room. Through the many?paned,
                        leaded lights of the eastern bay, the sunshine—misty, full of dancing
                        notes—streamed in obliquely, bringing into quaint prominence of light and
                        shadow a very miscellaneous collection of objects.—A marble Buddha, benign
                        of aspect, his right hand raised in blessing, seated cross?legged upon the
                        many?petalled lotus. A pair of cavalier’s jack?boots, standing just below,
                        most truculent and ungainly of foot?gear, wooden, hinged, leather?covered. A
                        trophy of Polynesian spears, shields, and canoe paddles. A bronze Antinous,
                        seductive of bearing and dainty of limb, but roughened by green rust. A
                        collection of old sporting?prints, softly coloured, covering a bare space of
                        wall, beneath a moose skull, from the broad flat antlers of which hung a
                        pair of Canadian snow?shoes. Along the inside wall of the great room, placed
                        at regular intervals, were consol tables bearing tall, oriental jars and
                        huge bowls of fine porcelain, filled with potpourri; so that the scent of
                        dried rose?leaves, bay, verbena, and many spices impregnated the air. The
                        place was, in short, a museum. Whatever of strange, grotesque, and curious,
                        Calmadys of past generations had collected in their wanderings, by land and
                        sea, found lodgment here. It was a home of half?forgotten histories, of
                        valorous deeds grown dim through the lapse of years; a harbour of refuge for
                        derelict gods, derelict weapons, derelict volumes, derelict instruments
                        which had once discoursed sweet enough music, but the fashion of which had
                        now passed away. The somewhat obsolete sentiment of the place harmonised
                        with the thin, silvery light and the thin sweetness of spices and dead roses
                        which pervaded it. It seemed to smile, as with the pitying tolerance of the
                        benign image of Buddha, upon the heat and flame, the untempered scarlet and
                        purple of the fleeting procession of individual lives, that had ministered
                        to its furnishing. For how much vigorous endeavour, now over and done with,
                        never to be recalled, had indeed gone to supply the furnishing of that
                            room! —And, after all, is not the most
                        any human creature dare hope for the more or less dusty corner of some such
                        museum shelf at last? The passion of the heart testified to by some battered
                        trinket, the sweat of the brain by some maggot?eaten manuscript, the agony
                        of death, at best, by some round shot turned up by the ploughshare? And how
                        shall anyone dare complain of this, since have not empires before now only
                        been saved from oblivion by a few buried potsherds, and whole races of
                        mankind by childish picture?scratchings on a reindeer bone? Tout lasse, tout passe, tout casse. The
                        individual—his arts, his possessions, his religion, his civilisation —is
                        always as an envelope, merely, to be torn asunder and cast away. Nothing
                        subsists, nothing endures, but life itself, endlessly self?renewed,
                        endlessly one, through all the endless divergencies of its manifestations.
                        And, as Julius March was to find, hide from it, deny it, strive to elude it
                        as we may, the recognition of just that is bound to grip us sooner or later
                        and hold us with a fearful and dominating power from which there is no
                        escape.
                    Meanwhile, his occupation was tranquil enough, comfortably remote, as it
                        seemed, from all such profound and disquieting matters. For the top shelf
                        proved not very prolific of interest. One book after another, examined and
                        rejected as worthless, was dropped—with a reproachful flutter of pages and
                        final thud—into the capacious paper?basket standing on the floor below.
                        Then, at the far end of the said shelf, he came unexpectedly upon a
                        collection of those quaint chap?books which commanded so wide a circulation
                        during the eighteenth century.
                    Julius, with the true bibliophile’s interest in all originals, examined his
                        find carefully. The tattered and dogs?eared, little volumes, coarsely
                        printed and embellished by a number of rough, square woodcuts, had, he knew,
                        a distinct value. He soon perceived that they formed a very representative
                        selection. He glanced at The famous History of Guy of Warwick; at that of
                        Sir Bevis of Southampton; at Joaks upon Joaks, a lively work regarding the
                        manners and customs of the aristocracy at the period of the Restoration; at
                        the record of the amazing adventures of that lusty serving?wench, Long Meg
                        of Westminster; and at that refreshing piece of comedy known as Merry Tales
                        concerning the Sayings and Doings of the Wise Men of Gotham.
                    Finally, hidden behind the outstanding frame of the bookcase, he discovered
                        four tiny volumes tied together with a rusty, black ribbon. A heavy coating
                        of dust lay upon them. A large spider, moreover, darted from behind them.
                        Dust clung un? pleasantly to its hairy and
                        ill?favoured person. It was a matter of principle with Julius never to take
                        life; yet instinctively he drew back his hand from the books in disgust.
                    “Araignée du matin, chagrin,” he said,
                        involuntarily, while he watched the insect make good its escape over the top
                        of the bookcase.
                    Then he flicked uneasily at the little parcel with his duster, causing a
                        cloud of grey atoms to float up and out into the room. Julius was perhaps
                        absurdly open to impressions. It took him some seconds to recover from his
                        sense of repulsion and to untie the rusty ribbon around the little books.
                        They all proved to be ragged and imperfect copies of the same work. The
                        woodcuts in them were splotched with crude colour. The title page was
                        printed in assorted type—here a line of Roman capitals, there one in italics
                        or old English letters. The inscription, consequently, was difficult to
                        decipher, causing him to hold the tattered page very close to his
                        short?sighted eyes. It ran thus—
                    “Setting forth a true and particular account of the dealings of Sir Thomas
                        Calmady with the Forester’s Daughter and the bloudy death of her Only Child.
                        To which is added her Prophecy and Curse.”
                    Julius had been standing, so as to reach the length of the shelf. Now he sat
                        down on the top step of the ladder again. A whole rush of memories came upon
                        him. He remembered vaguely how, long ago, in his childhood, he had heard
                        legends of this same curse. Staying here at Brockhurst as a baby?child with
                        his mother, maids had hinted at it, gossiping over the nursery fire at
                        night; and his mind, irresistibly attracted, even then, by the supernatural,
                        had been filled at once by desperate curiosity and by panic fear. He paused,
                        thinking back, singularly moved, as one on the edge of the satisfaction of
                        long?desired knowledge, yet slightly contemptuous, both of his own emotion
                        and of the rather vulgar means by which that knowledge promised to be
                        obtained.
                    The shafts of sunshine fell more obliquely across the eastern end of the
                        gallery. Benign Buddha had passed into shadow; while a painting by
                        Velasquez, standing on an easel near by, caught the light, starting into
                        arresting reality. It represented a hideous and mis?shapen dwarf, holding a
                        couple of graceful greyhounds in a leash—an unhappy creature who had made
                        sport for the household of some Castilian grandee, and whose gorgeous
                        garments were ingeniously designed to emphasise the physical degradation of
                        his contorted body. This painting, appearing to Julius too painful for habitual contemplation,
                        had, at his request, been removed from his study downstairs to its present
                        station. Just now he fancied it looked forth at him queerly insistent. At
                        this distance he could distinguish little more than a flare of scarlet and
                        cloth?of?gold, and the white of the hounds’ flanks and bellies, under the
                        strong sunlight. But he knew the picture in all its details; and was
                        oppressed by the remembrance of tragic eyes in a brutal face, eyes that
                        protested dumbly against cruelty inflicted by nature and by mankind alike.
                        He, Julius, was not, so he feared, quite guiltless in this matter. For had
                        there not been a savour of cruelty in his ejection of the portrait of this
                        unhappy being from his peaceful study?
                    And thinking of this his discomfort augmented. He was assailed by an
                        unreasoning nervousness of something malign, something sinister, about to
                        befall or to become known to him.
                    “Araignée du matin, chagrin,” he repeated
                        involuntarily.
                    He laid the four little chap?books back hastily behind the outstanding
                        woodwork of the bookshelf, descended the steps, walked the length of the
                        gallery, and leaning against one of the stone mullions of the great, eastern
                        bay?window looked out of the wide?open casement.
                    The prospect was, indeed, reassuring enough. The softly?green square of the
                        troco?ground, the brilliant beds and borders of the brick?walled gardens,
                        the grey flags of the great terrace —its row of little orange trees, heavy
                        with flower and fruit, set in blue painted tubs—lay below him in a blaze of
                        August sunshine. From the direction of the Long Water in the valley, Richard
                        Calmady rode up, between the thorn trees and the beds of bracken, across the
                        turf slopes of the park. It was a joy to see him ride. The rider and horse
                        were one in vigour and in the repose which comes of vigour—a something
                        classic in the natural beauty and sympathy of rider and of horse. Half?way
                        up the slope Richard swerved, turned towards the house, sat looking up, hat
                        in hand, while Katherine stood at the edge of the terrace looking down,
                        speaking with him. The warm breeze fluttered her full, muslin skirts, rose
                        and white, and the white lace of her parasol. The rich tones of her voice
                        and the ring of her laughter came up to Julius, as he leant against the
                        stone mullion, along with the droning of innumerable bees, and the cooing of
                        the pink?footed pigeons—that bowed to one another, spreading their tails,
                        drooping their wings amorously, upon the broad, grey string?course running
                        along the house?front just beneath. Mademoiselle de Mirancourt, a small,
                        neat, grey and black figure, was beside
                        Katherine, and, now and again, he heard the pretty staccato of her foreign
                        speech. Then Richard Calmady rode onward, turning half round in the saddle,
                        looking up for a moment at the woman he loved. His horse broke into a
                        canter, bearing him swiftly in and out of the shadow of the glistening,
                        domed oaks and ancient, stag?headed, Spanish chestnuts which crowned the
                        ascent, and on down the long, softly?shaded vista of the lime avenue. While
                        Camp, the bull?dog, who had lain panting in the bracken, streaked like a
                        white flash up the hillside in pursuit of his well?beloved master.
                    And Julius March moved away from the open window with a sigh. Yet what, after
                        all, of malign or sinister was perceptible, conceivable even, in respect of
                        this glorious morning and these happy people—unless, as he reflected,
                        something of pathos is of necessity ever resident in all beauty, all
                        happiness, the world being sinful, and existence so prolific of pain and
                        melancholy happenings? So he went back, climbed the library steps again, and
                        taking the little bundle of chap?books from their dusty resting?place, set
                        himself, in a somewhat penitential spirit, to master their contents. If the
                        occupation was distasteful to him, the more wholesome to pursue it! So,
                        supplying the deficiencies of torn or defaced pages by reference to another
                        of the copies, he arrived by degrees at a clear understanding of the whole
                        matter. The story was set forth in rhyming doggerel. The poet was not
                        blessed with a gift of melody or of style. Absence of scansion tortured the
                        ear. Coarseness of diction offended the taste. And yet, as he read on,
                        Julius reluctantly admitted that the cruel tale gained credibility and moral
                        force from the very homeliness of the language in which it was
                        chronicled.
                    Thus Julius learned how, during the closing years of the Commonwealth, the
                        young royalist gentleman, Sir Thomas Calmady, dwelling in enforced seclusion
                        at Brockhurst, relieved the tedium of country life by indulgence in divers
                        amours. He was large?hearted, apparently, and could not see a comely face
                        without attempting intimate acquaintance with the possessor of it. Among
                        other damsels distinguished by his attentions was his head forester’s
                        handsome daughter, whom, under reiterated promise of marriage, he seduced.
                        In due time she bore him a child, ideally beautiful, according to the poet
                        of the chap?book, blessed with “red?gold hair and eyes of blue,” and many
                        charms of infantile healthfulness. And yet, notwithstanding the noble looks
                        of her little son, the forester’s daughter
                        still remained unwed. For just now came the Restoration, and, along with it,
                        a notable change in the outlook of Sir Thomas Calmady and many another
                        lusty, young gallant; since the event in question not only restored Charles
                        the Second to the arms of his devoted subjects, but restored such loyal
                        gentlemen to the by no means too strait?laced society of town and court.
                        Thence, some few years later, Sir Thomas—amiably willing in all things to
                        oblige his royal master—brought home a bride, whose rank and wealth,
                        according to the censorious chap?book, were extensively in excess of her
                        youth and virtue.
                    Julius lingered a little in contemplation of the quaint woodcut representing
                        the arrival of this lady at Brockhurst. Clothed in a bottle?green
                        bodice—very generously décolletée—her head
                        adorned by a portentous erection of coronet and feathers, a sanguine dab of
                        colour on her cheek, she craned a skinny neck out of the window of the
                        family coach. Apparently she was engaged in directing the movements of
                        persons—presumably footmen—clad in canary?coloured coats and armed with long
                        staves. With these last, they treated a female figure, in blue, to, as it
                        seemed, sadly rough usage. And the context informed Julius, in jingling
                        verse, how that poor Hagar, the forester’s daughter, conveniently defiant of
                        custom and of common sense, had stoutly refused to be cast forth into the
                        social wilderness, along with her small Ishmael and a few pounds sterling as
                        price of her honour and content, until she had stood face to face with
                        Sarah, the safely church?wed, if none too reputable, wife. It informed him,
                        further, how the said small Ishmael—whether alarmed by the violence of my
                        lady’s men?servants, or wanting merely, childlike, to welcome his returning
                        father—ran to the coach door and clambered on the step; whence, thanks to a
                        vicious thrust —so declares the chap?book—from “the painted Jezebel within,”
                        he fell, while the horses plunging forward caused the near hind wheel of the
                        heavy, lumbering vehicle to pass over his legs, almost severing them from
                        his body just above the knee.
                    Thereupon—and here the homely language of the gutter poet rose to a level of
                        rude eloquence—the outraged mother, holding the mangled and dying child in
                        her arms, cursed the man who had brought this ruin upon her—cursed him and,
                        his descendants, to the sixth and seventh generation, good and bad alike.
                        Declaring, moreover, that as judgment on his perfidy and lust, no owner of
                        Brockhurst should reach the life limit set by the Psalmist, and die quiet
                            and christianly in his bed, until a
                        somewhat portentous event should have taken place.—Namely, until, as the
                        jingling rhyme set forth:— 
                            “—a fatherless babe to the birth shall have come,
                            Of brother or sister shall he have none,
                            But red?gold hair and eyes of blue
                            And a foot that will never know stocking or shoe.
                            If he opens his purse to the lamenter’s cry,
                            Then the woe shall lift and be laid for aye.”
                        
                    Julius March, his spare, black figure crouched together, sat on the top step
                        of the library ladder musing. His first movement had been one of refined and
                        contemptuous disgust. Sensuality, and the tragedies engendered by it, were
                        so wholly foreign to his nature and mental outlook, that it was difficult to
                        him to reckon with them seriously and admit the very actual and permanent
                        part which they play, and always have played, in the great drama of human
                        life. It distressed, it, in a sense, annoyed him that the legend of
                        Brockhurst, which had caused him elaborate imaginative terrors during his
                        childhood, should belong to this gross and vulgar order of history. Yet
                        indubitably—as he reluctantly admitted—each owner of Brockhurst had, very
                        certainly, found death in the midst of life, and that according to some
                        rather brutal and bloody pattern. This might, of course, be judged the
                        result of merest coincidence. Had he leisure and opportunity to search them
                        out, he could find, no doubt, plausible explanation of the majority of
                        cases. Only that fact of persistent violence, persistent accident, did
                        remain. It stared him in the face, so to speak, defiant of denial. And the
                        deduction, consequent upon it, stared him in the face likewise. He was
                        constrained to confess that the first clause of the deeply?wronged mother’s
                        prediction had found ample fulfilment.—Julius paused, shifted his position
                        uneasily, somewhat fearful of the conclusions of his own reasoning.
                    For how about the second clause of that same prediction? How about the advent
                        of that strange Child of Promise, who pre?ordained in his own flesh to bear
                        the last and heaviest stroke at the hands of retributive justice, should,
                        rightly bearing it, bring salvation both to himself and to his race? Behind
                        the coarse and illiterate presentment of the chap?book, Julius began dimly
                        to apprehend a somewhat majestic moral and spiritual tragedy, a tragedy of
                        vicarious suffering crowned by triumphant emancipation. Thus has God, as he
                        reflected with a self?condemnatory emotion of humility, chosen the base
                        things of the world and those which are
                        despised—yea, and the things which are not, to bring to nought the things
                        which are!—His heart, hungry of all martyrdom; all saintly doings, went
                        forth to welcome the idea. But then, he asked himself almost awed, in this
                        sceptical, rationalistic age, are such semi?miraculous moral examples still
                        possible? And answered, with strong exultation—as one finding practical
                        justification of a long, though silently, cherished conviction—yes, that
                        even now, nineteen centuries after the death of that divine Saving Victim to
                        whose service he had devoted his life and the joys of his manhood, such
                        nobly sad and strange happenings may still be.
                    And, even while he thus answered, his eyes were drawn involuntarily to the
                        portrait of the unsightly dwarf, painted by Velasquez. The broad shaft of
                        sunlight had crept backward, away from it, leaving the canvas unobtrusive,
                        no longer harshly evident either in violence of colour or grotesqueness of
                        form. It had become part of the great whole merely, modulated to gracious
                        harmony with the divers objects surrounding it, and, like them, softly
                        overlaid by a diffused and silvery light.
                
                
                    CHAPTER V
                    IN WHICH JULIUS MARCH BEHOLDS THE VISION OF THE NEW LIFE
                    HE was aroused from these austere, yet, to him, inspiring
                        reflections by the click of an opening door and the sound of women’s voices.
                        Mademoiselle de Mirancourt paused on the threshold, one hand raised in quick
                        admiration, the other resting on Lady Calmady’s arm.
                    “But this is superb!” she cried gaily. “Your charming King Richard, Cœur d’Or has given you a veritable palace to
                        inhabit!”
                    “Ah yes! King Richard has indeed given me a palace to live in. But, better
                        still, he has given me his dear heart of gold in which to hide the life of
                        my heart for ever and a day.”
                    Katherine’s words came triumphantly, more as song than as speech. She caught
                        the elder woman’s upraised hand gently and kissed it, looking her,
                        meanwhile, full in the face.—“I am happy, very, very happy, best and
                        dearest,” she said. “And it is so delicious to be happy.”
                    
                    “Ah, my child, my beautiful child!” Mademoiselle de Mirancourt cried.
                    There were tears in her pretty, patient eyes. For if youth finds age pathetic
                        with the obvious pathos of spent body, and of tired mind which has ceased to
                        greatly hope, how far more deeply pathetic does age, from out its sad and
                        settled wisdom, find poor, gallant youth and all its still unbroken trust in
                        the beneficence of destiny, its unbroken faith in the enchantments of
                        earth!
                    Meanwhile, Julius March—product as he was of an arbitrary system of thought
                        and training, and by so much divorced from the natural instincts of youth
                        and age alike, the confident joy of the one, the mature acquiescence of the
                        other—in overhearing this brief conversation suffered embarrassment
                        amounting almost to shame. For not only Katherine’s words, but the vital
                        gladness of her voice, the sweet exuberance of her manner as she bent, in
                        all her spotless bravery of white and rose, above the elder woman’s hand and
                        kissed it, came to him as a revelation before which he shrank with a certain
                        fearful modesty. Julius had read of love in the poets, of course. But, in
                        actual fact, he had never wooed a woman, nor heard from any woman’s lips the
                        language of intimate devotion. The cold embraces of the Church—a church, as
                        he too often feared, rendered barren by schism and heresy—were the only
                        embraces he had ever suffered. Things read of and things seen, moreover, are
                        singularly different in power. And so he trembled now at the mystery of
                        human love, actual and concrete, here close beside him. He was, indeed,
                        moved to the point of losing his habitual suavity of demeanour. He rose
                        hastily and descended the library steps, forgetful of the handful of
                        chap?books, which fell in tattered and dusty confusion upon the floor.
                    Katherine looked round. Until now she had been unobservant of his presence,
                        innocent of other audience than the old friend, to whom it was fitting
                        enough to confide dear secrets. For an instant she hesitated, embarrassed
                        too, her pride touched to annoyance, at having laid bare the treasures of
                        her heart thus unwittingly. She was tempted to retreat through the still
                        open door, into the library, and leave the review of the Long Gallery and
                        its many relics to a more convenient season. But it was not Katherine’s
                        habit to run away, least of all from the consequences of her own actions.
                        And her sense of justice compelled her to admit that, in this case, the
                        indiscretion—if indiscretion indeed there was—lay with her, in not having
                        seen poor Julius; rather than with him, in having overheard her little
                        outburst. So she called to him in friendly
                        greeting, and came swiftly towards him down the length of the great
                        room.
                    And Julius stood waiting for her, leaning against the frame of the library
                        ladder—a spare, black figure, notably at variance with the broad glory of
                        sunshine and colour reigning out of doors.
                    His usually quick instinct of courtesy was in abeyance, shaken, as he still
                        was, and confused by the revelation that had just come to him. He looked at
                        Lady Calmady with a new and agitated understanding. She made so fair a
                        picture that he could only gaze dumbly at it. Tall in fact, Katherine was
                        rendered taller by the manner—careless of passing fashion—in which her hair
                        was dressed. The warm, brown mass of it, rolled up and back from her
                        forehead, showed all the perfect oval of her face. Tender, lovely, smiling,
                        her blue?brown eyes soft and lustrous, with a certain wondering serenity in
                        their depths, there was yet something majestic about Katherine Calmady. No
                        poor or unworthy line marred the nobility of her face or figure. The dark,
                        arched eyebrows, the well?chiselled and slightly aquiline nose, the firm
                        chin and throat, the shapely hands, all denoted harmony and completeness of
                        development, and promised a reserve of strength, ready to encounter and
                        overcome if danger were to be met. Years afterwards the remembrance of
                        Katherine as he just then saw her would return upon Julius, as prophetic of
                        much. Quailing in spirit, still reluctant, in his asceticism, to comprehend
                        and reckon with her personality in the fulness of its present manifestation,
                        he answered her at random and with none of the pause and playful evasiveness
                        usual to his speech.
                    “I am very glad we have found you,” Katherine said frankly. “I was afraid, by
                        the fact of your not coming to breakfast, that you were overtired. We talked
                        late last night. Did we weary you too much?”
                    “Existence in itself is vexatiously wearisome at times—at least to feeble
                        persons, like myself.”
                    Katherine’s smile faded. She looked at him with charming solicitude.
                    “Ah! you are not well,” she declared. “Go out and enjoy the sunshine. Leave
                        all those stupid books. Go,” she repeated, “order one of the horses. Go and
                        meet Richard. He has gone over to look at the new lodge. You could ride all
                        the way through the east woods in the cool.—See, I will put these tidy.”
                    And, as she spoke, Katherine stooped to pick up the scattered chap?books from the ground. But, in the
                        last few moments, while looking at her, yet further understanding had
                        overtaken Julius March. Not only the mystery of human love, but the mystery
                        of dawning motherhood had come close to him. And he put Lady Calmady aside
                        with a determination of authority somewhat surprising.
                    “No, no, pardon me! They are dusty, they will soil your hands. You must not
                        touch those books,” he said.
                    Katherine straightened herself up. Her face was slightly flushed, her
                        expression full of kindly amusement. 
                    “Dear Julius, you are very imperative. Surely I may make my hands dirty, once
                        in a way, in a good cause? They will wash, you know, just as well as your
                        own, after all.”
                    “A thousand. times better. Still, I will ask you not to touch those books. I
                        have valid reasons. For one, an evil beast in the form of a spider has dwelt
                        among them. I disturbed it and it fled, looking as though it had grown old
                        in trespasses and sins. It seemed to me a thing of ill omen.”
                    He tried to steady himself, to treat the matter lightly. Yet his speech
                        struck Katherine as hurried and anxious, out of all proportion to the matter
                        in hand.
                    “Poor thing—and you killed it? Yet it couldn’t help being ugly, I suppose,”
                        she answered, not without a touch of malice.
                    Julius was on his knees, his long, thin fingers gathering up the tattered
                        pages, ranging them into a bundle, tying them together with the tag of
                        rusty, black ribbon aforesaid. For an unreasoning, fierce desire was upon
                        him—very alien to his usual gentle attitude of mind—to shield this beautiful
                        woman from all acquaintance with the foul story set forth in those little
                        books. To shield her, indeed, from more than merely that. For a vague
                        presentiment possessed him that she might, in some mysterious way, be
                        intimately involved in the final development of that same story which,
                        though august, was so full of suffering, so profoundly sad. Meanwhile, in
                        his excitement, he replied, less to her gently mocking question than to the
                        importunities of his own thought.
                    “No,” he said, “I let it go. I begin to fear it is useless to attempt to take
                        short?cuts to the extinction of what is evil. It does not cease, but merely
                        changes its form. Unwillingly I have learned that. No violent death is
                        possible to things evil.” 
                    Julius rose to his feet.
                    “They must go on,” he continued, “till, in the merciful providence of God,
                        their term is reached, till their power is exhausted, till they have worn
                        themselves out.”
                    
                    Lady Calmady turned and moved thoughtfully towards the far end of the room,
                        where the sunshine still slanted in through the open casements of the
                        bay?window, and where the delicate, little, spinster lady stood awaiting
                        her. Amorous pigeons cooed below on the string?course. Bees droned sleepily
                        against the glass.
                    “But,” she said, in gentle remonstrance, “that is a rather terrible doctrine,
                        Julius. Surely it is not quite just; for it would seem to leave us almost
                        hopelessly at the mercy of the wrong?doing of others.”
                    “Yes, but are we not, just that—all of us at the mercy of the wrong?doing of
                        others?—The courageous forever suffering for the cowardly, the wise for the
                        ignorant and brutish, the just for the unjust? Is not this, perhaps, the
                        very deepest lesson of our religion?”
                    “Oh no, no!” Katherine cried incredulously. “There is something at once
                        deeper and more comforting than that. Remember, in the beginning, when God
                        created all things and reviewed His handiwork, He pronounced it very
                        good.”
                    Julius was recovering his suavity. The little packet of chap?books rested
                        safely in the pocket of his coat.
                    “But that was a long time ago,” he said, smiling.
                    They reached the bay?window. Katherine took her old friend’s hand once again
                        and laid it caressingly upon her arm.
                    “Pardon me for keeping you waiting, dearest,” she said. “Julius is in fault.
                        He will argue with me about the date of the creation, and that takes time.
                        He declares it was so long ago that everything has had time to grow very old
                        and go very wrong. But, indeed, he is mistaken. Agree with me, tell him he
                        is mistaken! The world is deliciously young yet. It was only made a little
                        over twenty?two years ago. I must know, for I came into it then. And I found
                        it all as new as I was myself, and a thousand times prettier—quite adorably
                        gay, adorably fresh.”
                    Katherine’s voice sank, grew fuller in tone. She gazed out over the brilliant
                        garden to the woodland shimmering in the noontide heat. Then she looked at
                        Julius March, her eyes and lips eloquent with joyous conviction.
                    “Indeed, I think, God makes His whole creation over again for each one of us,
                        it is so beautiful. As in the beginning, so now,” she said; “behold it is
                        very good—ah yes! who can doubt that—it is very good!”
                    “Amen. To you may it ever so continue,” Julius murmured, bowing his head.
                    
                    That evening there was a dinner party at Brockhurst. Lord Denier brought his
                        handsome second wife. She was a Hellard, and took the judge faute de mieux, so said the wicked world,
                        rather late in life. The Cathcarts of Newlands and their daughter Mary came;
                        and Roger Ormiston too, who, being off duty, had run down from London for a
                        few days’ partridge shooting, bringing with him his cousin Colonel St.
                        Quentin—invalided home, to his own immense chagrin, in the midst of the
                        Afghan war. On the terrace, after dinner, for the night was warm enough for
                        the whole company to take coffee out of doors, Lady Calmady—incited
                        thereunto by her brother—had persuaded Mary Cathcart to sing, accompanying
                        herself on her guitar. The girl’s musical gifts were of no extraordinary
                        order, but her young contralto was true and sweet. The charm of the hour and
                        the place, moreover, was calculated to heighten the effect of the Jacobite
                        songs and old?world love?ditties which she selected.
                    Roger Ormiston unquestionably found her performance sufficiently moving. But
                        then the girl’s frank manner, her warm, gipsy?like colouring, and the way in
                        which she could sit a horse, moved him also; had done so, indeed, ever since
                        he first saw her, as quite a child, some eight or nine years ago, on one of
                        his earliest visits to Brockhurst, fighting a half?broken, Welsh pony that
                        refused at a grip by the roadside. The little maiden, her face pale, for
                        once, from concentration of purpose, had forced the pony over the grip.
                        Then, slipping out of the saddle, she coaxed and kissed the rough, unruly,
                        little beast, with tears of apology for the hard usage to which she had been
                        obliged to subject it. So stout, yet so tender, a heart, struck Roger as an
                        excellent thing in woman. And now, listening to the full, rounded notes and
                        thrumming of the guitar strings, in the evening quiet under the stars, he
                        wished, remorsefully, that he had never been guilty of any pleasant sins,
                        that his record was cleaner, his tastes less expensive, that he was a better
                        fellow all round, in short, than he was, because, then, perhaps—
                    And Julius March, too, found the singing somewhat agitating, though to him
                        the personality of the singer was of small account. Another personality, and
                        a train of feeling evoked by certain new aspects of it, had pursued him all
                        the day long. Katherine, mindful of her somewhat outspoken divergence of
                        opinion from his, in the morning, had been particularly thoughtful of his
                        pleasure and entertainment. At dinner she directed the conversation upon
                        subjects interesting to him, and had thereby made him talk more unreservedly
                        than was his wont. Not even the most saintly of human beings is wholly indifferent to social
                        success. Julius was conscious of a stirring of the blood, of a subdued
                        excitement. These sensations were pleasurable. But his training had taught
                        him to distrust pleasurable sensations as too often the offspring of very
                        questionable parentage. And, while Mary Cathcart’s voice still breathed upon
                        the fragrant night air, he, standing on the outskirts of the listening
                        company, slipped away unperceived.
                    His study, a long, narrow room occupying, with his bedroom, the ground floor
                        of the chapel wing of the house, struck chill as he entered it. Above the
                        range of pigeon?holes and little drawers, forming the back of the
                        writing?table, two candles burned on either side of a bronze pietà, which Julius had brought back with him
                        from Rome. On the broad slab of the table below were the many quires of
                        foolscap forming the library catalogue, neatly numbered and lettered; while
                        his diary lay open upon the blotting?pad, ready for the chronicle of the
                        past day’s events. Beside it was the packet of chap?books, still tied
                        together with their tag of rusty ribbon.
                    It was Julius March’s habit to exchange his coat for a cassock in the privacy
                        of his study. He did so now, and knotted a black cord about his waist. Let
                        no one underrate the sustaining power of costume, whether it take the form
                        of ballet?skirt or monk’s frock. Human nature is but a weak thing at best,
                        and needs outward and visible signs, not only to support its faith in its
                        deity, but even its faith in its own poor self! Of persons of sensitive
                        temperament and limited experience, such as Julius, this is particularly
                        true. Putting off his secular garment, as a rule he could put off secular
                        thoughts as well. Beneath the severe and scanty folds of the cassock there
                        was small space for remembrance of the pomp and glory of this perishing
                        world. At least he hoped so. To?night, importuned as he had been by scenes
                        and emotions quite other than ecclesiastical, Julius literally sought refuge
                        in his cassock. It represented “port after stormy seas,”—home, after travel
                        in lands altogether foreign.
                    He took St. Augustine’s De Civitate Dei from its place in the
                        bookshelves lining one side of the room. There should be peace to the soul,
                        surely, emancipation from questioning of transitory things, in reading of
                        the City of God? But, alas, his attention strayed. That sense of subdued
                        excitement was upon him yet. He thought of the conversation at dinner, of
                        brilliant speeches he might have made, of the encouragement of Katherine’s
                        smiling eyes and sympathetic speech, of the scene in the gallery that
                        morning, of Mary Cathcart’s old?time love?ditties. The City of God was far off. All these were
                        things very near at hand. Notwithstanding the scanty folds of the cassock,
                        they importuned him still.
                    Pained at his own lack of poise and seriousness, Julius returned the volume
                        of St. Augustine to its place, and, sitting down at the writing?table
                        prepared to chronicle the day’s events. Perhaps by putting a statement of
                        them on paper he could rid himself of their all too potent influence. But
                        his thought was tumultuous, words refused to come in proper order and
                        sequence; and Julius abhorred that erasures should mar the symmetry of his
                        pages. Impatiently he pushed the diary from him. Clearly it, like the City
                        of God, was destined to wait.
                    The guests had departed. He had heard the distant calling of voices in
                        friendly farewell, the rumble of departing wheels. The night was very soft
                        and mild. He would go out and walk the grey flags of the terrace, till this
                        unworthy restlessness gave place to reason and calm.
                    Passing along the narrow passage, he opened the door on to the garden?hall.
                        And there paused. The hall itself, and the inner side of the carven arches
                        of the arcade, were in dense shadow. Beyond stretched the terrace bathed in
                        moonlight, which glittered on the polished leaves of the little orange
                        trees, on the leaded panes of the many windows, and strangely transmuted the
                        colours of the range of pot?flowers massed beneath them along the base of
                        the house. It was a fairy world upon which Julius looked forth. Nor did it
                        need suitable inhabitants. Pacing slowly down the centre of the terrace came
                        Richard and Katherine Calmady, hand in hand. Tall, graceful, strong in the
                        perfection of their youth and of their great devotion, amid that ethereal
                        brightness, they seemed as two heroic figures—immortal, fairy lovers moving
                        through the lovely wonder of that fairyland. As they drew near, Katherine
                        stopped, leant—with a superb abandon—back against her husband, resting her
                        hand on his shoulder, drew his arm around her waist for support, drew his
                        face down to her upturned face until their lips met, while the moonlight
                        played upon the jewels on her bare arms and neck and gleamed softly on the
                        surface of her white, satin dress.
                    To true lovers the longest kiss is all too sadly short—a thing brief almost
                        in proportion to its sweetness. But to Julius March, watching from the
                        blackness of the doorway, it seemed a whole eternity before Richard Calmady
                        raised his head. Then Julius turned and fled down the passage and back into
                        the chill study, where the candles burned on either side the image of the
                        Virgin Mother cradling the dead Christ upon her knee.
                    
                    Gentle persons, breaking from the lines of self?restraint, run to a curious
                        violence in emotion. All day long, shrink from it, ignore it, as he might, a
                        moral storm had been brewing. Now it broke. Not from those two lovers did
                        Julius turn thus in amazement and terror; but from just that from which it
                        is impossible for anyone to turn in actual fact—namely from himself. He was
                        appalled by the narrowness of his own past outlook; appalled by the
                        splendour of that heritage which, by his own act, he had forfeited. The
                        cassock ceased, indeed, to be a refuge, the welcome livery of home and rest.
                        It had become a prison?suit, a badge of slavery, against which his whole
                        being rebelled. For the moment—happily violence is shortlived, only for a
                        very little while do even the gentlest persons “see red”—asceticism appeared
                        to him as a blasphemy against the order of nature and of nature’s God. His
                        vow of perpetual chastity, made with so passionate an enthusiasm, for the
                        moment appeared to him an act of absolutely monstrous vanity and
                        self?conceit. In his stupid ignorance he had tried to be wiser than his
                        Maker, preferring the ordinances of man to the glad and merciful purposes of
                        God. In so doing had he not, only too possibly, committed the unpardonable
                        sin, the sin against the Holy Ghost?
                    Poor Julius, his thought had indeed run almost humorously mad! Yet it was
                        characteristic of the man that the breaking of his self?imposed bonds never
                        occurred to him. Made in ignorance, unwitnessed though his vow might be, it
                        remained inviolable. He never, even in this most heated hour of his trial,
                        doubted that.
                    Stretching out his arms, he clenched his hands in anguish of spirit. The
                        sacerdotal pride, the subjective joys of self?consecration, the mental
                        luxury of feeling himself different from others, singled out, set apart,—all
                        the Pharisee, in short, in Julius March,—was sick to death. He had supposed
                        he was living to God—and now it appeared to him he had lived only to
                        himself. He had trusted God too little, had come near reckoning the great
                        natural laws—which, after all, must be of God’s ordering?common and unclean.
                        Katherine was right. The eternal purpose is joy, not sorrow; youth and
                        health, not age and decay; thankful acceptance, not fastidious rejection and
                        fear. Katherine—yes, Katherine—and there the young man’s wild tirade
                        stopped—
                    He flung himself down in front of the writing?table, leaning his. elbows on
                        it, pressing his face upon his folded arms. For in good truth, what did it
                        all amount to? Not outraged laws of nature, not sins against the Holy Ghost;
                        but just simply this, that the common fate
                        had overtaken him. He loved a woman, and in so loving had, at last, found
                        himself.
                    The most vital experiences are beyond language. When Julius looked up, his
                        eyes rested upon the bronze pietà, age?old
                        witness to the sanctity of motherhood and of suffering alike. His face was
                        wet with tears. He was faint and weak; yet a certain calm had come to him.
                        He no longer quarrelled—though his attitude towards them was greatly
                        changed—either with his priestly calling or his rashly made vow. Not as
                        sources of pride did he now regard them; but as searching discipline to be
                        borne humbly and faithfully, to the honour—as he prayed?both of earthly and
                        heavenly love. He loved Katherine, but he loved her husband, and that with
                        the fulness of a loyal and equal friendship. And so no taint was upon his
                        love, of this he felt assured. Indeed, he asked nothing better than that
                        things might continue as they were at Brockhurst; and that he might continue
                        to warm his hands a little—only a little—in the dear sunshine of Richard and
                        Katherine Calmady’s perfect love.
                    As Julius rose, his knees gave under him. He rested both hands heavily on the
                        table, looked down, saw the unsightly packet of dirty chap?books. Again, and
                        almost with a cry, he prayed that things might continue as they were at
                        Brockhurst.
                    “Give peace in my time, O Lord!” he said. Then he wrapped up the little
                        bundle carefully, sealed and labelled it, and locked it away in one of the
                        table?drawers.
                    Thus, kneeling before the image of the stricken Mother and the dead Christ,
                        did Julius March behold the Vision of the New Life. But the page of his
                        diary, on which surely a matter of so great importance should have been duly
                        chronicled, remains to this day a blank.
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI
                    ACCIDENT OR DESTINY, ACCORDING TO YOUR HUMOUR
                    ON the 18th of October that year, St. Luke’s day, a man died, and
                        this was the manner of his passing.
                    There was nothing more to be done. Dr. Knott had gone out of the red
                        drawing?room on the ground floor into the tapestry?hung dining?room next
                        door, which struck cold as the small hours drew on towards the dawn. And
                        Julius March, after reciting the prayer in which the Anglican Church commends the souls of her departing
                        children to the merciful keeping of the God who gave them, had followed him.
                        The doctor was acutely distressed. He hated to lose a patient. He also hated
                        to feel emotion. It made him angry. Moreover, he was intolerant of the
                        presence of the clergy and of their ministrations in sick?rooms. He greeted
                        poor Julius rather snarlingly.
                    “So your work’s through as well as mine,” he said. “No disrespect to your
                        cloth, Mr. March, but I’m not altogether sorry. I daresay I’m a bit of a
                        heathen; but I can’t help fancying the dying know more of death, and the way
                        to meet it, than any of us can teach them.”
                    A group of men?servants stood about the open door, at the farther end of the
                        room, with Iles, the steward, and Mr. Tom Chifney, the trainer from the
                        racing?stables. The latter advanced a little and, clearing his throat,
                        inquired huskily:—
                    “No hope at all, doctor?”
                    “Hope?” he returned impatiently.—The lamp on the great bare dining?table
                        burned low, and John Knott’s wide mouth, conical skull and thick, ungainly
                        person looked ogreish, almost brutal in the uncertain light.—“There never
                        was a grain of hope from the first, except in Sir Richard’s fine
                        constitution. He is as sound as only a clean?living man of thirty can be,—I
                        wish there were a few more like him, though your beastly diseases do put
                        money into my pocket,—that offered us a bare chance, and we were bound to
                        act on that chance”—his loose lips worked into a bitterly humorous
                        smile—“and torture him. Well, I’ve seen a good many men under the knife
                        before now, and I tell you I never saw one who bore himself better. Men and
                        horses alike, it’s breeding that tells when it comes to the push. You know
                        that, eh, Chifney?”
                    In the red drawing?room, where the drama of this sad night centred, Roger
                        Ormiston had dropped into a chair by the fireside, his head sunk on his
                        chest and his hands thrust into his pockets. He was very tired, very
                        miserable. A shocking thing had happened, and, in some degree, he held
                        himself responsible for that happening. For was it not he who had been so
                        besotted with the Clown, and keen about its training? Therefore the young
                        man cursed himself, after the manner of his kind; and cursed his luck too,
                        in that, if this thing was to happen, it had not happened to him instead of
                        to Richard Calmady.
                    Mrs. Denny, the housekeeper, had retired to a straight?backed chair stationed
                        against the wall. She sat there, waiting till the next call should come for
                        her skilful nursing, upright, her hands
                        folded upon her silk apron, her attitude a model of discreet and
                        self?respecting repose. Mrs. Denny knew her place, and had a considerable
                        capacity for letting other persons know theirs. She ruled the large
                        household with unruffled calm. But, to?night, even her powers of
                        self?control were heavily taxed; and though she carried her head high, she
                        could not help tears coursing slowly down her cheeks, and falling sadly to
                        the detriment of the goffered frills of her white, lawn cross?over.
                    And Richard Calmady, meanwhile, lay still and very fairly peaceful upon the
                        narrow, camp bed in the middle of the room. He had lain there, save during
                        one hour,—the memory of which haunted Katherine with hideous and sickening
                        persistence,—ever since Tom Chifney, the head?lad from the stables and a
                        couple of grooms, had carried him in, on a hurdle, from the steeplechase
                        course four days ago.
                    The crimson?covered chairs and sofas, and other furniture of the large square
                        room, had been pushed back against the walls in a sort of orderly confusion,
                        leaving a broad passage?way between the doors at either end, and a wide
                        vacant space round the bed. At the head of this stood a high, double?shelved
                        what?not, bearing medicine bottles, cups, basins, rolled bandages, dressings
                        of rag and lint, a spirit?lamp over which simmered a vessel containing
                        vinegar, and a couple of shaded candles in a tall, branched, silver
                        candlestick. The light from these fell, in intersecting circles, upon the
                        white bed, upon the man’s brown, close?curled hair, upon his handsome
                        face—drawn and sharpened by suffering—and its rather ghastly three days’
                        growth of beard.
                    It fell, too, upon Katherine, as she sat facing her husband, the side of her
                        large easy?chair drawn up parallel to the side of the bed.
                    Silently, unlooked for, as a thief in the night, the end of Katherine’s fair
                        world had come. There had been no time for forethought or preparation. At
                        one step she had been called upon to pass from the triumph to the terror of
                        mortal life. But she was a valiant creature, and her natural courage was
                        reinforced by the greatness of her love. She met the blow standing, her
                        brain clear, her mind strong to help. Only once had she faltered—during the
                        hideous hour when she waited, pacing the dining?room in the dusk, four
                        evenings back. For, after consultation with Dr. Jewsbury and Mr. Thorns of
                        Westchurch, John Knott had told her—with a gentleness and delicacy a little
                        surprising in so hard?bitten a man—that, owing to the shattered condition of the bone, amputation of the right
                        leg was imperative. He added that, only too probably, the left would have
                        eventually to go too. They must operate, he said, and operate immediately.
                        Katherine had pleaded to be present; but Dr. Knott was obdurate.
                    “My dear lady, you don’t know what you ask,” he said. “As you love him, let
                        him be. If you are there it will just double the strain. He’d suffer for you
                        as well as himself. Believe me he will be far best alone.”
                    It must be remembered that in 1842 anæsthetics had not robbed the
                        operating?room of half its horrors. The victim went to execution wide?awake,
                        with no mercy of deadened senses and dulled brain. And so Katherine had
                        paced the dining?room, hearing at intervals, through the closed doors, the
                        short peremptory tones of the surgeons, fearing she heard more and worse
                        sounds than those. They were hurting him, sorely, sorely, dismembering and
                        disfiguring the dear, living body which she loved. A tempest of unutterable
                        woe swept over her. Breaking fiercely away from her brother and Denny—who
                        strove to comfort her—she beat her poor, lovely head against the wall. But
                        that, so far, had been her one moment of weakness. Since then she had fought
                        steadily, with a certain lofty cheerfulness, for the life she so desired to
                        save. The horror of the second operation had been spared her; but only
                        because it might but too probably hasten, rather than retard, the
                        approaching footsteps of death. Mortification had set in, in the bruised and
                        mangled limb forty?eight hours ago. And now the scent of death was in the
                        air. The awful presence drew very near. Yet only when doctor and priest
                        alike rose and went, when her brother moved away, and even the faithful
                        housekeeper stepped back from the bedside, did Katherine’s mind really grasp
                        the truth. Her well?beloved lay dying; and human tenderness, human skill, be
                        they never so great, ceased to avail.
                    She was worn by the long vigil. Her face was colourless. Yet perhaps
                        Katherine’s beauty had never been more rare and sweet than as she sat there,
                        leaning a little forward in the eagerness of her watchfulness. The dark
                        circles about her eyes made them look very large and sombre. The corners of
                        her mouth turned down and her under?lip quivered now and then, giving her
                        expression a childlike piteousness of appeal. There was no trace of disorder
                        in her appearance. Her white dressing?gown and all its pretty ribbons and
                        laces were spotlessly fresh. Her hair was carefully dressed as usual—high at
                        the back, showing the nape of her neck, her little ears, and the noble
                            poise of her head. Katherine was not
                        one of those women who appear to imagine that slovenliness is the proper
                        exponent of sorrow.
                    Still, for all her high courage, as the truth came home to her, her spirit
                        began to falter for the second time. It is comparatively easy to endure
                        while there is something to be done; but it is almost intolerable, specially
                        to the young when life is strong in them, merely to sit by and wait.
                        Katherine’s overwrought nerves began to play cruel tricks upon her, carrying
                        her back in imagination to that other hideous hour of waiting, in the
                        dining?room, four evenings ago. Again she seemed to hear the short,
                        peremptory tones of the surgeons, and those worse things—the stifled groan
                        of one in the extremity of physical anguish, and the grate of a saw. These
                        maddened her with pity, almost with rage. She feared that now, as then, she
                        might lose her self?mastery and do some wild and desperate thing. She tried
                        to keep her attention fixed on the quick, irregular rise and fall of the
                        linen sheet expressing the broad, full curve of the young man’s chest, as he
                        lay flat on his back, his eyes closed, but whether in sleep or in
                        unconsciousness she did not know. As long as the sheet rose and fell he was
                        alive at all events, still with her. But she was too exhausted for any
                        sustained effort of will. And her glance wandered back to, and followed with
                        agonised comprehension, the formless, motionless elevation and depression of
                        that same sheet towards the foot of the bed.
                    The air of the room seemed to grow more oppressive, the silence to deepen,
                        and with it the terrible tension of her mind increased. Suddenly she started
                        to her feet. The logs burning in the grate had fallen together with a crash,
                        sending a rush of ruddy flame and an innumerable army of hurrying sparks up
                        the wide chimney. All the mouldings of the ceiling—all the crossing bars and
                        sinuous lines of the richly?worked pattern, all the depending bosses and
                        roses of it, all the foliations of the deep cornice—sprang into bold relief,
                        outlined, splashed, and stained with living scarlet. And this universal
                        redness of carpet, curtains, furniture, and now of ceiling, even of
                        white?draped bed, suggested to Katherine’s distracted fancy another
                        thing—unseen, yet known during her other hour of waiting—namely blood.
                    Roused by the crash of the falling logs and the rustle of Katherine’s
                        garments as she sprang up, Richard Calmady opened his eyes. For a few
                        seconds his glance wavered in vague distress and perplexity. Then, as fuller
                        consciousness returned of how it all was with him, with a slight lifting of
                        the eyebrows his glance steadied upon Katherine and he smiled.
                    
                    “Ah! my poor Kitty,” he whispered, “it takes a long time, doesn’t it, this
                        business of dying?”
                    Katherine’s evil fancies vanished. As soon as the demand for action came she
                        grew calm and sane. The ceiling and sheets were white again and her mind was
                        clear.
                    “Are you easy, my dearest?” she asked. “In less pain?”
                    “No,” he said, “no, I’m not in pain. But everything seems to sink away from
                        me, and I float right out. It’s all dream and mist—except—except just now
                        your face.”
                    Katherine’s lips quivered too much for speech. She moved swiftly across to
                        the what?not at the head of the bed. If he did not suffer, there could be no
                        selfishness, surely, in trying to keep death at bay for a little space yet?
                        But, alas, with what grotesquely paltry and inadequate weapons are all—even
                        the most gallant—reduced to fighting death at the last! Here, on the one
                        hand, a half wine glass of champagne in a china feeding?cup, with a
                        teapot?like spout to it, or a few spoonfuls of jelly, backed by the passion
                        of a woman’s heart. And, on the other hand, ranged against this pitiful
                        display of absurdly limited resources,—as the hosts of the Philistines
                        against the little army of Israel,—resistless laws of nature, incalculably
                        far?reaching forces, physical and spiritual, the interminable progression of
                        cause and effect!
                    Denny joined Lady Calmady at the table. The two women held brief
                        consultation. Then the housekeeper went round to the farther side of the
                        bed, and slipping her arm under the pillows gently raised Richard’s head and
                        shoulders, while Katherine, kneeling beside him, held the spout of the
                        feeding?cup to his lips.
                    “Must I? I don’t think I can manage it,” he said, drawing away slightly and
                        closing his eyes.
                    But Katherine persisted.
                    “Oh! try to drink it,” she pleaded, “never mind how little—only try. Help me
                        to keep you here just as long as I can.”
                    The young man’s glance steadied on to her once again, and his eyes and lips
                        smiled the same faint, wholly gracious smile.
                    “All right, my beloved,” he said. “A little higher, Denny, please.”
                    Not without painful effort and a choking contraction of the throat, he
                        swallowed a few drops. But the greater part of the draught spilt out
                        sideways, and would have dribbled down on to the pillows had not Katherine
                        held her handkerchief to his mouth.
                    Ormiston, who had been standing at the foot of the bed in the hope of
                        rendering some assistance, ground his teeth together with a half?audible imprecation, and went slowly
                        over to the fireplace again. He had supposed himself as miserable as he well
                        could be before. But this incident of the feeding?cup was the climax,
                        somehow. It struck him as an intolerable humiliation and outrage that
                        Richard Calmady, splendid fellow as he was, gifted, high?bred gentleman,
                        should, of all men, come to this sorry pass! He was filled with impotent
                        fury. And was it this pass, indeed, he asked himself, to which every human
                        creature must needs come one day? Would he, Roger Ormiston, one day, find
                        himself thus weak and broken, his body—now so lively a source of various
                        enjoyment—degraded into a pest?house, a mere dwelling?place of suffering and
                        corruption? The young man gripped the high, narrow mantelshelf with both
                        hands and pressed his forehead down between them. He really had not the
                        nerve to watch what was going forward over there any longer. It was too
                        painful. It knocked all the manhood out of him. But for very shame, before
                        those two calm, devoted women, he would have broken down and wept.
                    Presently Richard’s voice reached him, feeble yet uncomplaining.
                    “I am so sorry, but you see it’s no use, Kitty. The machinery won’t work. Let
                        me lie flat again, Denny, please. That’s better, thanks.”
                    Then after a few moments of laboured breathing, he added:—
                    “You mustn’t trouble any more, it only disappoints you. We have just got to
                        submit to fact, my beloved. I’ve taken my last fence.”
                    Ormiston’s shoulders heaved convulsively as he leaned his forehead against
                        the cold, marble edge of the chimneypiece. His brother?in?law’s words
                        brought the whole dreadful picture up before him. Oh! that cursed slip and
                        fall, that struggling, plunging, frenzied horse!—And how the horse had
                        plunged and struggled, good God! It seemed as though Chifney, the grooms,
                        all of them, would never get hold of it or draw Richard out from beneath the
                        pounding hoofs. And then Ormiston went over his own share in the business
                        again, lamenting, blaming himself. Yet what more natural, after all, than
                        that he should have set his affections on the Clown? Chifney believed in the
                        horse too—a five?year?old brother of Touchstone, resembling, in his
                        black?brown skin and intelligent, white?reach face, that celebrated horse,
                        and inheriting—less enviable distinction—the high shoulders and withers of
                        his sire Camel. If the Clown did not make a name, Captain Ormiston had
                        sworn, by all the gods of sport, he would never judge a horse again. And,
                        Heaven help us, was this the ghastly way
                        the Clown’s name was to be made, then?
                    The room grew very quiet again, save for a strange gurgling, rattling sound
                        Richard Calmady made, at times, in breathing. Mrs. Denny had retired beyond
                        the circle of firelight. And Katherine, having drawn her chair a little
                        farther forward so that the foot of the bed might be out of sight, sat
                        holding her husband’s hand, softly caressing his wrist and palm with her
                        finger?tips. Soon the slow movement of her fingers ceased, while she felt,
                        in quick fear, for the fluttering, intermittent pulse. Richard’s breathing
                        had become more difficult. He moved his head restlessly and plucked at the
                        sheet with his right hand. It was a little more than flesh and blood could
                        bear.
                    Katherine called to him softly under her breath:—“Richard, Dick, my
                        darling!”
                    “All right, I’m coming.”
                    He opened his eyes wide, as in sudden terror.
                    “Oh! I say, though, what’s happened? Where am I?”
                    Katherine leant down, kissed his hand, caressed it.
                    “Here, my dearest,” she said, “at home, at Brockhurst, with me.”
                    “Ah yes!” he said, “of course, I remember, I’m dying.” He waited a little
                        space, and then, turning his head on the pillow so as to have a better view
                        of her, spoke again:—“I was floating right out—the under?tow had got me—it
                        was sucking me down into the deep sea of mist and dreams. I was so nearly
                        gone—and you brought me back.”
                    “But I wanted you so—I wanted you so,” Katherine cried, smitten with sudden
                        contrition. “I could not help it. Do you mind?”
                    “You silly sweet, could I ever mind coming back to you?” he asked wistfully.
                        “Don’t you suppose I would much rather stay here at Brockhurst, at home,
                        with you—than sink away into the unknown?”
                    “Ah! my dear,” she said, swaying herself to and fro in the misery of tearless
                        grief.
                    “And yet I have no call to complain,” he went on. “I have had thirty years of
                        life and health. It is not a small thing to have seen the sun, and to have
                        rejoiced in one’s youth. And I have had you”—his face hardened and his
                        breath came short—“you, most enchanting of women.”
                    “My dear! my dear!” Katherine cried, again bowing her head.
                    “God has been so good to me here that—I hope it is not presumptuous—I can’t
                        be much afraid of what is to follow. The
                        best argument for what will be, is what has been. Don’t you think so?”
                    “But you go and I stay,” she said. “If I could only go too, go with you.”
                    Richard Calmady raised himself in the bed, looked hard at her, spoke as a man
                        in the fulness of his strength.
                    “Do you mean that? Would you come with me if you could—come through the deep
                        sea of mist and dreams, to whatever lies beyond?”
                    For all answer Katherine bent lower, her face suddenly radiant,
                        notwithstanding its pallor. Sorrow was still so new a companion to her that
                        she would dare the most desperate adventures to rid herself of its hateful
                        presence. Her reason and moral sense were in abeyance, only her poor heart
                        spoke. She laid hold of her husband’s hands and clasped them about her
                        throat.
                    “Let us go together, take me,” she prayed. “I love you, I will not be left.
                        Closer, Dick, closer!”
                    “Thank God, I am strong enough even yet!” he said fiercely, while his jaw
                        set, and his grasp tightened somewhat dangerously upon her throat. Katherine
                        looked into his eyes and laughed. The blood was tingling through her
                        veins.
                    “Ah! dear love,” she panted, “if you knew how delicious it is to be a little
                        hurt!”
                    But her ecstasy was shortlived, as ecstasy usually is. Richard Calmady
                        unclasped his hands and dropped back against the pillows, putting her away
                        from him with a certain authority.
                    “My beloved one, do not tempt me,” he said. “We must remember the child. The
                        devil of jealousy is very great, even when one lies, as I do now, more than
                        half dead.”—He turned his head away, and his voice shook. “Ten years hence,
                        twenty years hence, you will be as beautiful—more so, very likely—than ever.
                        Other men will see you, and I”—
                    “You will be just what you were and always have been to me,” Katherine
                        interrupted. “I love you, and shall love.”
                    She answered bravely, taking his hand again and caressing it, while he looked
                        round and smiled at her. But she grew curiously cold. She shivered, and had
                        a difficulty in controlling her speech. Her new companion, Sorrow, refused
                        to be tricked and to leave her, and the breath of sorrow is as sharp as a
                        wind blowing over ice.
                    “You have made me perfectly content,” Richard Calmady said presently. “There
                        is nothing I would have changed. No hour of day—or night—ah, my God! my
                        God!—which I could ask to have otherwise.”
                        He paused, fighting a sob which rose in his throat. “Still you are quite
                        young”—
                    “So much the worse for me,” Katherine said.
                    “Oh! I don’t know about that,” he put in quietly. “Anyhow, remember that you
                        are free, absolutely and unconditionally free. I hold a man a cur who, in
                        dying, tries to bind the woman he loves.”
                    Katherine shivered. Despair had possession of her.
                    “Why reason about it?” she asked. “Don’t you see that to be bound is the only
                        comfort I shall have left?”
                    “My poor darling,” Richard Calmady almost groaned.
                    His own helplessness to help her cut him to the quick. Wealth, and an
                        inherent graciousness of disposition, had always made it so simple to be of
                        service and of comfort to those about him. It was so natural to rule, to
                        decide, to alleviate, to give little trouble to others and take a good deal
                        of trouble on their behalf, that his present and final incapacity in any
                        measure to shield even Katherine, the woman he worshipped, amazed him. Not
                        pain, not bodily disfigurement,—though he recoiled, as every sane being
                        must, from these,—not death itself, tried his spirit so bitterly as his own
                        uselessness. All the pleasant, kindly activities of common intercourse were
                        over. He was removed alike from good deeds and from bad. He had ceased to
                        have part or lot in the affairs of living men. The desolation of impotence
                        was upon him.
                    For a little time he lay very still, looking up at the firelight playing upon
                        the mouldings of the ceiling, trying to reconcile himself to this. His mind
                        was clear, yet, except when actually speaking, he found it difficult to keep
                        his attention fixed. Images, sensations, began to chase each other across
                        his mental field of vision; and his thought, though definite as to detail,
                        grew increasingly broken and incoherent, small matters in unseemly fashion
                        jostling great. He wondered concerning those first steps of the disembodied
                        spirit, when it has crossed the threshold of death; and then, incontinently,
                        he passed to certain time?honored jokes and impertinent follies at Eton,
                        over which he, and Roger, and Major St. Quentin, had laughed a hundred
                        times. They amused him greatly even yet. But he could not linger with them.
                        He was troubled about the attics of the new lodge, now in building at the
                        entrance to the east woods. The windows were too small, and he disliked that
                        blind, north gable. There were letters to be answered too. Lord Fallowfeild
                        wanted to know about something—he could not remember what—Fallowfeild’s
                        inquiries had a habit of being vague. And
                        through all these things—serious or trivial—a terrible yearning over
                        Katherine and her baby—the new, little, human life which was his own life,
                        and which yet he would never know or see. And through all these things also,
                        the perpetual, heavy ache of those severed nerves and muscles, flitting
                        pains in the limb of which, though it was gone, he had not ceased to be
                        aware.—He dozed off, and mortal weakness closed down on him, floating him
                        out and out into vague spaces. And then suddenly, once more, he felt a horse
                        under him and gripped it with his knees. He was riding, riding, whole and
                        vigorous, with the summer wind in his face, across vast, flowering pastures
                        towards a great light on the far horizon, which streamed forth, as he knew,
                        from the throne of Almighty God.
                    Choking, with the harsh rattle in his throat, he awoke to the actual and
                        immediate—to the familiar, square room and its crimson furnishings, to
                        Katherine’s sweet, pale face and the touch of her caressing fingers, to
                        someone standing beside her, whom he did not immediately recognise. It was
                        Roger—Roger worn with watching, grown curiously older. But a certain
                        exhilaration, born of that strange ride, remained by Richard Calmady. Both
                        ache of body and distress of mind had abated. He felt a lightness of spirit,
                        an eagerness, as of one setting forth on a promised journey, who—not
                        unlovingly, yet with something of haste—makes his dispositions before he
                        starts.
                    “Look here, darling,” he said, “you’ll let the stables go on just as usual.
                        Chifney will take over the whole management of them. You can trust him
                        implicitly. And—that is you, Roger, isn’t it?—you’ll keep an eye on things,
                        won’t you, so that Kitty shall have no bother? I should like to know nothing
                        was changed at the stables. They’ve been a great hobby of mine, and if—if
                        the baby is a boy, he may take after me and care for them. Make him ride
                        straight, Roger. And teach him to love sport for its own sake, dear old man,
                        as a gentleman should, not for the money that may come out of it.”
                    He waited, struggling for breath, then his hand closed on Katherine’s.
                    “I must go,” he said. “You’ll call the boy after me, Kitty, won’t you? I want
                        there to be another Richard Calmady. My life has been very happy, so, please
                        God, the name will bring luck.”
                    A spasm took him, and he tried convulsively to push off the sheet. Katherine
                        was down on her knees, her right arm under his head, while with her left
                        hand she stripped the bedclothes away from his chest and bared his
                        throat.
                    
                    “Denny, Denny!” she cried, “come—tell me—is this death?”
                    And Ormiston, impelled by an impulse he could hardly have explained, crossed
                        the room, dragged back the heavy curtains, and flung one of the casements
                        wide open.
                    The soft light of autumn dawn flowed in through the great mullioned window,
                        quenching the redness of fire and candles, spreading, dim and ghostly, over
                        the white dress and bowed head of the woman, over the narrow bed and the
                        form of the maimed and dying man. The freshness of the morning air, laden
                        with the soothing murmur of the fir forest swaying in the breath of a mild,
                        westerly breeze; laden too with the moist fragrance of the moorland,—of dewy
                        grass, of withered bracken and fallen leaves,—flowed in also, cleansing the
                        tainted atmosphere of the room. While, from the springy turf of the green
                        ride—which runs eastward, parallel to the lime avenue—came the thud and suck
                        of hoofs, and the voices of the stable boys, as they rode the long string of
                        dancing, snorting racehorses out to the training ground for their morning
                        exercise.
                    Richard Calmady opened his eyes wide.
                    “Ah, it’s daylight!” he cried, in accents of joyfulness. “I am glad. Kiss me,
                        my beloved, kiss me.—You dear—yes, once more. I have had such a queer night.
                        I dreamt I had been fearfully knocked about somehow, and was crippled, and
                        in pain. It is good to wake, and find you, and know I’m all right after all.
                        God keep you, my dearest, you and the boy. I am longing to see him—but not
                        just now—let Denny bring him later. And tell them to send Chifney word I
                        shall not be out to see the gallops this morning. I really believe those
                        dreams half frightened me. I feel so absurdly used up. And then—Kitty, where
                        are you?—put your arms round me and I’ll go to sleep again.”
                    He smiled at her quite naturally and stroked her cheek.
                    “My sweet, your face is all wet and cold!” he said. “Make Richard a good boy.
                        After all that is what matters most—Julius will help you—Ah! look at the
                        sunrise—why—why”—
                    An extraordinary change passed over him. To Katherine it seemed like the
                        upward leap of a livid flame. Then his head fell back and his jaw
                        dropped.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII
                    MRS. WILLIAM ORMISTON SACRIFICES A WINE GLASS TO FATE
                    MRS. ST. QUENTIN’S health became increasingly fragile that autumn;
                        and the weight of the sorrow which had fallen upon Brockhurst bowed her to
                        the earth. Her desire was to go to Lady Calmady, wrap her about with
                        tenderness and strengthen her in patience. But, though the spirit was
                        willing, the flesh was weak. Daily she assured Mademoiselle de Mirancourt
                        that she was better, that she would be able to start for England in the
                        course of the next week. Yet day after day, week after week, passed by, and
                        still the two ladies lingered in the pretty apartment of the rue de Rennes.
                        Day by day, and week by week, moreover, the elder lady grew more feeble,
                        left her bed later in the morning, sought it earlier at night, finally
                        resigned the attempt to leave it at all. The keepers of Lucia St. Quentin’s
                        house of life trembled, desire—even of gentle ministries—began to fail, the
                        sound of the grinding was low. Yet neither she, nor her lifelong friend, nor
                        her doctor, nor the few intimate acquaintances who were still privileged to
                        visit her, admitted that she would never set forth on that journey to
                        England at all, but only on that quite other journey,—upon which Richard
                        Calmady had already set forth in the fulness of his manhood,—and upon which,
                        the manifold uncertainties of human existence notwithstanding, we are, each
                        one of us, so perfectly certain to set forth at last. Silently they agreed
                        with her to treat her increasing weakness with delicate stoicism, to speak
                        of it—if at all—merely as a passing indisposition, so allowing no dreary,
                        lamentable element to obtrude itself. Sad Mrs. St. Quentin might be,
                        bitterly sad at heart, perplexed by the rather incomprehensible dealings of
                        God with man. Yet, to the end, she would remain charming, gently gay even,
                        both out of consideration for others and out of a fine self?respect, since
                        she held it the mark of a cowardly and ignoble nature to let anything
                        squalid appear in her attitude towards grief, old age, or death.
                    But Brockhurst she would never see again. The way was too great for her. And
                        so it came about that when Lady Calmady’s child was born, towards the end of
                        the following March, no more staid and responsible woman?creature of her
                        family was at hand to support her than that lively, young lady, her brother,
                        William Ormiston’s wife.
                    
                    Meanwhile, the parish of Sandyfield rejoiced. Thomas Caryll, the rector, had
                        caused the church bells to be rung immediately on receipt of the good news;
                        while he selected, as text for his Sunday?morning sermon, those words,
                        usually reserved to another and somewhat greater advent—“For unto us a child
                        is born, unto us a son is given.” Good Mr. Caryll was innocent of the
                        remotest intention of profanity. But his outlook was circumscribed, his
                        desire to please abnormally large, and his sense of relative values slight.
                        While that Lady Calmady should give birth to a son and heir was, after all,
                        a matter of no small moment—locally considered at all events.
                    Brockhurst House rejoiced also, yet it did so not without a measure of fear.
                        For there had been twenty?four hours of acute anxiety regarding Katherine
                        Calmady. And even now, on the evening of the second day, although Dr. Knott
                        declared himself satisfied both as to her condition and that of the baby, an
                        air of mystery surrounded the large, state bedroom—where she lay, white and
                        languid, slowly feeling her way back to the ordinary conditions of
                        existence—and the nursery next door. Mrs. Denny, who had taken possession by
                        right divine of long and devoted service, not only did not encourage, but
                        positively repulsed visitors. Her ladyship must not be disturbed. She, the
                        nurse, the baby, in turn, were sleeping. According to Denny the god of sleep
                        reigned supreme in those stately, white?panelled chambers, looking away,
                        across the valley and the long lines of the elm avenue, to the faint blue of
                        the chalk downs rising against the southern sky.
                    John Knott had driven over, for the second time that day, in the windy March
                        sunset. He fell in very readily with Mrs. Ormiston’s suggestion that he
                        should remain to dinner. That young lady’s spirits were sensibly on the
                        rise. It is true that she had wept copiously at intervals while her
                        sister?in?law’s life appeared to be in danger—keeping at the same time as
                        far from the sick?room as the ample limits of Brockhurst House allowed, and
                        wishing herself a thousand and one times safe back in Paris, where her
                        devoted and obedient husband occupied a subordinate post at the English
                        Embassy. But Mrs. Ormiston’s tears were as easily stanched as set flowing.
                        And now, in her capacity of hostess, with three gentlemen—or rather “two and
                        a half, for you can’t,” as she remarked, “count a brother?in?law for a whole
                        one”—as audience, she felt remarkably cheerful. She had been over to
                        Newlands during the afternoon, and insisted on Mary Cathcart returning with
                        her. Mrs. Ormiston was a Desmolyns. The Cathcarts are distantly connected
                        with that family. And, when the girl had
                        protested that this was hardly a suitable moment for a visit to Brockhurst,
                        Charlotte Ormiston had replied, with that hint of a brogue which gave her
                        ready speech its almost rollicking character:—
                    “But, my dear child, propriety demands it. I depart myself to?morrow. And,
                        now that we’re recovering our tone, I daren’t be left with such a houseful
                        of men on my hands any longer. While we were tearing our hair over poor
                        Kitty’s possible demise, and agonising as to the uncertain sex of the baby,
                        it did not matter. But now even that dear creature, Saint Julius, is
                        beginning to pick up, and looks less as if his diet was mouldy peas and his
                        favourite plaything a cat?o’?nine?tails. Scourge?—Yes, of course, but it’s
                        all the same in the application of the instrument, you know. And then in
                        your secret soul, Mary dear,” she added, not unkindly, “there’s no denying
                        it’s far from obnoxious to you to spend a trifle of time in the society of
                        Roger.”
                    Mrs. Ormiston carried her point. It may be stated, in passing, that this
                        sprightly, young matron was brilliantly pretty, though her facial angle
                        might be deemed too acute, leaving somewhat to be desired in the matter of
                        forehead and of chin. She was plump, graceful, and neat waisted. Her skin
                        was exquisitely white and fine, and a charming colour flushed her cheeks
                        under excitement. Her hair was always untidy, her hairpins displaying
                        abnormal activity in respect of escape and independent action. Her eyes were
                        round and very prominent, suggestive of highly?polished, brown agates. She
                        was not the least shy or averse to attracting attention. She laughed much,
                        and practised, as prelude to her laughter, an impudently, coquettish, little
                        stare.—And that, finally, as he sat on her right at dinner, her rattling
                        talk and lightness of calibre generally struck John Knott as rather
                        cynically inadequate to the demands made by her present position. Not that
                        he underrated her good?nature or was insensible to her personal attractions.
                        But the doctor was in search of an able coadjutor just then, blessed with a
                        steady brain and a tongue skilled in tender diplomacies. For there were
                        trying things to be said and done, and he needed a woman of a fine spirit to
                        do and say them aright.
                    “Head like an eft,” he said to himself, as course followed course and, while
                        bandying compliments with her, he watched and listened. “As soon set a
                        harlequin to lead a forlorn hope. Well it’s to be trusted her husband’s some
                        use for her—that’s more than I have anyhow, so the sooner we see her off the
                        premises the better. Suppose I shall have to fall back on Ormiston. Bit of a
                        rake, I expect, though in looks he is so
                        curiously like that beautiful, innocent, young thing upstairs. Wonder how
                        he’ll take it? No mistake, it’s a facer!”
                    Dr. Knott settled himself back squarely in his chair and pushed his
                        cheese?plate away from him, while his shaggy eyebrows drew together as he
                        fixed his eyes on the young man at the head of the table.
                    “A facer!” he repeated to himself. “Yes, the ancients knew what they were
                        about in these awkward matters. The modern conscience is disastrously
                        anæmic.”
                    Although it looks on the terrace, the dining?room at Brockhurst is among the
                        least cheerful of the living rooms. The tapestry with which it is
                        hung—representing French hunting scenes, each panel set in a broad border
                        pattern of birds, fruits and leaves, interspersed with classic urns and
                        medallions—is worked in neutral tints of brown, blue, and grey. The
                        chimney?piece, reaching the whole height of the wall, is of liver?coloured
                        marble. At the period in question, it was still the fashion to dine at the
                        modestly early hour of six; and, the spring evenings being long, the
                        curtains had been left undrawn, so that the dying daylight without and the
                        lamplight within contended rather mournfully for mastery, while a wild,
                        south?easterly wind, breaking in gusts against the house front, sobbed at
                        the casements and made a loose pane, here and there, click and rattle.
                    And it was in the midst of a notably heavy gust, when dessert had been served
                        and the servants had left the room, that Captain Ormiston leaned across the
                        table and addressed his sister?in?law.
                    The young soldier had been somewhat gloomy and silent during dinner. He was
                        vaguely anxious about Lady Calmady. The news of Mrs. St. Quentin was
                        critical, and he cherished a very true affection for his great?aunt. Had she
                        not been his confidante ever since his first term at Eton? Had she not,
                        moreover, helped him on several occasions when creditors displayed an
                        incomprehensibly foolish pertinacity regarding payment for goods supplied?
                        He was burdened too by a prospective sense of his own uncommon
                        righteousness. For, during the past five months while he had been on leave
                        at Brockhurst, assisting Katherine to master the details of the very various
                        business of the estate, Ormiston had revised his position and decided on
                        heroic measures of reform. He would rid himself of debt, forswear expensive
                        London habits, and those many pleasant iniquities which every great city
                        offers liberally to such handsome, fine gentlemen as himself. He actually
                        proposed, just so soon as Katherine could conveniently spare him, to decline
                        from the splendid inactivity of the Guards, upon the hard work of some line regiment under orders
                        for foreign service. Ormiston was quite affected by contemplation of his own
                        good resolutions. He appeared to himself in a really pathetic light. He
                        would like to have told Mary Cathcart all about it and have claimed her
                        sympathy and admiration. But then, she was just precisely the person he
                        could not tell, until the said resolutions had, in a degree at all events,
                        passed into accomplished fact! For—as not infrequently happens—it was not so
                        much a case of being off with the old love before being on with the new, as
                        of being off with the intermediate loves, before being on with the old one
                        again. To announce his estimable future, was, by implication at all events,
                        to confess a not wholly estimable past. And so Roger Ormiston, sitting that
                        night at dinner beside the object of his best and most honest affections,
                        proved but poor company; and roused himself, not without effort, to say to
                        his sister?in?law:—
                    “It’s about time to perform the ceremony of the evening, isn’t it, Charlotte,
                        and drink that small boy’s health?”
                    “By all manner of means. I’m all for the observance of ancient forms and
                        ceremonies. You can never be sure how much mayn’t lie at the bottom of them,
                        and it’s best to be on the safe side of the unseen powers. You’ll agree to
                        that now, Mr. March, won’t you?”—She took a grape skin from between her neat
                        teeth and flicked it out on to her plate.—“So, for myself,” she went on, “I
                        curtsey nine times to the new moon, though the repeated genuflexion is
                        perniciously likely to give me the backache; touch my hat in passing to the
                        magpies; wish when I behold a piebald; and bless my neighbour devoutly if he
                        sneezes.”
                    At the commencement of this harangue she met her brother?in?law’s rather
                        depreciative scrutiny with her bold little stare—in his present mood
                        Ormiston found her vivacity tedious, though he was usually willing enough to
                        laugh at her extravagancies—then she whipped Julius in with a side glance,
                        and concluded with her round eyes set on Dr. Knott’s rough?hewn and
                        weather?beaten countenance.
                    “I’m afraid you are disgracefully superstitious, Mrs. Ormiston,” the latter
                        remarked.
                    She was a feather?headed chatterbox, he reflected, but her chatter served to
                        occupy the time. And the doctor was by no means anxious the time should pass
                        too rapidly. He felt slightly self?contemptuous; but in good truth he would
                        be glad to put away some few glasses of sound port before administering the
                        aforementioned facer to Captain Ormiston.
                    
                    “Superstitious?” she returned. “Well, I trust my superstition is not chronic,
                        but nicely intermittent like all the rest of my many virtues. Charity begins
                        at home, you know, and I would not like to keep any of the poor, dear
                        creatures on guard too long for fear of tiring them out. But I give every
                        one of them a turn, Dr. Knott, I assure you.”
                    “And that’s more than most of us do,” he said, smiling rather savagely. “The
                        majority of my acquaintance have a handsome power of self?restraint in the
                        practice of virtue.”
                    “And I’m the happy exception! Well, now, that’s an altogether pretty speech,”
                        Mrs. Ormiston cried, laughing. “But to return to the matter in hand, to this
                        hero of a baby—I dote on babies, Dr. Knott. I’ve one of my own of six months
                        old, and she’s a charming child I assure you.”
                    “I don’t doubt that for an instant, having the honour of knowing her mother.
                        Couldn’t be otherwise than charming if she tried,” the doctor said, reaching
                        out his hand again to the decanter.
                    Mrs. Ormiston treated him to her little stare, and then looked round the
                        table, putting up one plump, bare arm as she pushed in a couple of
                        hairpins.
                    “Ah! but she’s a real jewel of a child,” she said audaciously. “She’s the
                        comfort of my social existence. For she doesn’t resemble me in the least,
                        and therefore my reputation’s everlastingly safe, thanks to her. Why, before
                        the calumniating thought has had time to arise in your mind, one look in
                        that child’s face will dissipate it, she’s so entirely the image of her
                        father.”
                    There was a momentary silence, but for the sobbing of the gale and rattling
                        of the casements. Then Captain Ormiston broke into a rather loud laugh. Even
                        if they sail near the wind, you must stand by the women of your family.
                    “Come, that will do, I think; Charlotte,” he said. “You won’t beat that
                        triumphant bull in a hurry.”
                    “But, my dear boy, so she is. Even at her present tender age, she’s the
                        living picture of your brother William.”
                    “Oh, poor William!” Roger said hastily.
                    He turned to Mary Cathcart. The girl had blushed up to the roots of her
                        crisp, black hair. She did not clearly understand the other woman’s speech,
                        nor did she wish to do so. She was admirably pure?minded. But, like all
                        truly pure?minded persons, she carried a touchstone that made her recoil,
                        directly and instinctively, from that which was of doubtful quality. The
                        twinkle in Dr. Knott’s grey eyes, as he sipped his port, still more the tone
                        of Roger Ormiston’s laugh, she did understand some? how. And this last jarred upon her cruelly. It
                        opened the flood?gates of doubt which Mary—like so many another woman in
                        respect of the man she loves—had striven very valiantly to keep shut. All
                        manner of hints as to his indiscretions, all manner of half?told tales as to
                        his debts, his extravagance, which rumour had conveyed to her unwilling
                        ears, seemed suddenly to gather weight and probability, viewed in the moral
                        light—so to speak—of that laugh. Great loves mature and deepen under the
                        action of sorrow and the necessity to forgive; yet it is a shrewdly bitter
                        moment, when the heart of either man or woman first admits that the god of
                        its idolatry has, after all, feet of but very common clay. Her head erect,
                        her eyes moist, Mary turned to Julius March and asked him of the welfare of
                        a certain labourer’s family that had lately migrated from Newlands to
                        Sandyfield. But Ormiston’s voice broke in upon the inquiries with a
                        determination to claim her attention.
                    “Miss Cathcart,” he said, “forgive my interrupting you. I can tell you more
                        about the Spratleys than March can. They’re all right. Iles has taken the
                        man on as carter at the home?farm, and given the eldest boy a job with the
                        woodmen. I told him to do what he could for them as you said you were
                        interested in them. And now, please, I want you to drink my small nephew’s
                        health.”
                    The girl pushed forward her wine glass without speaking, and, as he filled
                        it, Ormiston added in a lower tone:—
                    “He, at all events, unlike some of his relations, is guiltless of foolish
                        words or foolish actions. I don’t pretend to share Charlotte’s
                        superstitions, but some people’s good wishes are very well worth
                        having.”
                    Unwillingly Mary Cathcart raised her eyes. Her head was still carried a
                        little high and her cheeks were still glowing. Her god might not be of pure
                        gold throughout—such gods rarely are, unfortunately—yet she was aware she
                        still found him a very worshipful kind of deity.
                    “Very well worth having,” he repeated. “And so I should like that poor,
                        little chap to have your good wishes, Miss Cathcart. Wish him all manner of
                        nice things, for his mother’s sake as well as his own. There’s been a pretty
                        bad run of luck here lately, and it’s time it changed. Wish him better
                        fortune than his forefathers. I’m not superstitious, as I say, but Richard
                        Calmady’s death scared one a little. Five minutes beforehand it seemed so
                        utterly improbable. And then one began to wonder if there could be any truth
                        in the old legend. And that was ugly, you know.”
                    
                    Dr. Knott glanced at the speaker sharply.—“Oh! that occurred to you, did it?”
                        he said.
                    “Bless me! why, it occurred to everybody!” Ormiston answered impatiently.
                        “Some idiot raked the story up, and it was canvassed from one end of the
                        county to the other last autumn till it made me fairly sick.”
                    “Poor boy!” cried Mrs. Ormiston. “And what is this wonderful story that so
                        nauseates him, Dr. Knott?”
                    “I’m afraid I can’t tell you,” the doctor answered slowly. A nervous movement
                        on the part of Julius March had attracted his attention. “I have never
                        managed to get hold of the story as a whole, but I should like to do so
                        uncommonly.”
                    Julius pushed back his chair, and groped hurriedly for the dinner?napkin
                        which had slipped to the ground from his knees. The subject of the
                        conversation agitated him. The untidy, little chap?books, tied together with
                        the tag of rusty ribbon, had lain undisturbed in the drawer of his library
                        table ever since the—to him—very memorable evening, when, kneeling before
                        the image of the stricken Mother and the dead Christ, he had found the man’s
                        heart under the priest’s cassock and awakened to newness of life. Much had
                        happened since then; and Julius had ranged himself, accepting, open?eyed,
                        the sorrows and alleviations of the fate he had created for himself. But
                        to?night he was tired. The mental and emotional strain of the last few days
                        had been considerable. Moreover, John Knott’s presence always affected him.
                        The two men stood, indeed, at opposing poles of thought—the one spiritual
                        and ideal, the other material and realistic. And, though he struggled
                        against the influence, the doctor’s rather brutal common sense and large
                        knowledge of physical causes, gained a painful ascendency over his mind at
                        close quarters. Knott, it must be owned, was slightly merciless to his
                        clerical acquaintances. He loved to bait them, to impale them on the horns
                        of some moral or theological dilemma. And it was partly with this purpose of
                        harrying and worrying that he continued now:—
                    “Yes, Mrs. Ormiston, I should like to hear the story just as much as you
                        would. And—it strikes me, if he pleased, Mr. March could tell it to us.
                        Suppose you ask him to!”
                    Promptly the young lady fell upon Julius, regardless of Ormiston’s hardly
                        concealed displeasure.
                    “Oh! you bad man, what are you doing,” she cried, “trying to conceal
                        thrilling family legends from the nearest relatives? Tell us all about it,
                        if you know, as Dr. Knott declares you do. I dote on terrifying
                        stories—don’t you, Mary?—that send the cold
                        shivers all down my back. And if they deal with the history of my nearest
                        and dearest, why, there’s an added charm to them. Now, Mr. March, we’re all
                        attention. Stand and deliver, and make it all just as bad as you can.”
                    “I am afraid I am not an effective improvisatore,” he replied. “And the subject, if you will
                        pardon my saying so, seems to me too intimate for mirth. A curse is supposed
                        to rest on this place. The owners of Brockhurst die young and by violent
                        means.”
                    “We know that already, and look to you to tell us something more, Mr. March,”
                        Dr. Knott said dryly.
                    Julius was slightly nettled at the elder man’s tone and manner. He answered
                        with an accentuation of his usual refinement of enunciation and suavity of
                        manner.
                    “There is a term to the curse—a saviour who, according to the old prediction,
                        has the power, should he also have the will, to remove it altogether.”
                    “Oh, really, is that so? And when does this saviour put in an appearance?”
                        the doctor asked again.
                    “That is not revealed.”
                    Julius would very gladly have said nothing further. But Dr. Knott’s
                        expression was curiously intent and compelling as he sat fingering the stem
                        of his wine glass. All the ideality of Julius’s nature rose in revolt
                        against the half?sneering rationalism he seemed to read in that expression.
                        Mrs. Ormiston, who had an hereditary racial appreciation of anything
                        approaching a fight, turned her round eyes first on one speaker and then on
                        the other provokingly, inciting them to more declared hostilities, while she
                        bit her lips in the effort to avoid spoiling sport by untimely laughter or
                        speech.
                    “But unhappily,” Julius proceeded, yielding under protest to these opposing
                        forces, “the saviour comes in so questionable a shape, that I fear, whenever
                        the appointed time may be, his appearance will only be welcomed by the
                        discerning few.”
                    “That’s a pity,” Dr. Knott said. He paused a minute, passed his hand across
                        his mouth.—“Still, if we are to believe the Bible, and other so?called
                        sacred histories, it’s been the way of saviours from the beginning to try
                        the faith of ordinary mortals by presenting themselves under rather queer
                        disguises.”—He paused again, drawing in his wide lips, moistening them with
                        his tongue. “But since you evidently know all about it, Mr. March, may I
                        make bold to inquire in what special form of fancy dress the saviour in
                        question is reported as likely to present himself?”
                    “He comes as a child of the house,” Julius answered, with dignity. “A child who in person—if I understand
                        the wording of the prophecy aright—is half angel, half monster.”
                    John Knott opened his mouth as though to give passage to some very forcible
                        exclamation. Thought better of it and brought his jaws together with a kind
                        of grind. His heavy figure seemed to hunch itself up as in the recoil from a
                        blow.
                    “Curious,” he said quietly. Yet Julius, looking at him, could have fancied
                        that his weather?beaten face went a trifle pale.
                    But Mrs. Ormiston, in the interests of a possible fight, had contained
                        herself just as long as was possible. Now she clapped her hands, and broke
                        into a little scream of laughter.
                    “That’s just the most magnificently romantic thing I ever heard!” she cried.
                        “Come now, this requires further investigation. What’s our baby like, Dr.
                        Knott? I’ve seen nothing but an indistinguishable mass of shawls and
                        flannels. Have we, by chance, got an angelic monstrosity upstairs without
                        being aware of it?”
                    “Charlotte!” Roger Ormiston called out sternly. The young man looked
                        positively dangerous. “This conversation has gone quite far enough. I agree
                        with March, it may all be stuff and nonsense, not worth a second thought,
                        still it isn’t a thing to joke about.”
                    “Very well, dear boy, be soothed then,” she returned, making a little grimace
                        and putting her head on one side coquettishly. “I’ll be as solemn as nine
                        owls. But you must excuse a momentary excitement. It’s all news to me, you
                        know. I’d no notion Katherine had married into such a remarkable family. I’m
                        bound to learn a little more. Do you believe it’s possible at all, Dr.
                        Knott, now tell me?”
                    “The fulfilment of prophecy is rather a wide and burning question to embark
                        on,” he said. “With Captain Ormiston’s leave, I think we’d better go back to
                        the point we started from and drink the little gentleman’s health. I have my
                        patient to see again, and it is getting rather late.”
                    The lady addressed, laughed, held up her glass, and stared round the table
                        with a fine air of bravado, looking remarkably pretty.
                    “Fire away, Roger, dear fellow,” she said. “We’re loaded, and ready.”
                    Thus admonished, Ormiston raised his glass too. But his temper was not of the
                        sweetest, just then, he spoke forcedly.
                    “Here’s to the boy,” he said; “good luck, and good health, and,” he added hastily, “please God he’ll be a
                        comfort to his mother.”
                    “Amen,” Julius said softly.
                    Dr. Knott contemplated the contents of his glass, for a moment, whether
                        critically or absently it would have been difficult to decide. But all the
                        harshness had gone out of his face, and his loose lips worked into a smile
                        pathetic in quality.
                    “To the baby.—And I venture to add a clause to your invocation of that
                        heartless jade, Dame Fortune. May he never lack good courage and good
                        friends. He will need both.”
                    Julius March set down his wine untasted. He had received a very disagreeable
                        impression.
                    “Come, come, it appears to me, we are paying these honours in a most
                        lugubrious spirit,” Mrs. Ormiston broke in. “I wish the baby a long life and
                        a merry one, in defiance of all prophecies and traditions belonging to his
                        paternal ancestry. Go on, Mr. March, you’re shamefully neglecting your duty.
                        No heel taps.”
                    She threw back her head, showing the whole of her white throat, drained her
                        glass and then flung it over her shoulder. It fell on the black, polished
                        boards, beyond the edge of the carpet, shivered into a hundred pieces, that
                        lay glittering, like scattered diamonds in the lamplight. For the day had
                        died altogether. Fleets of dark, straggling cloud chased each other across
                        spaces of pallid sky, against the earthward edge of which dusky tree?tops
                        strained and writhed in the force of the tearing gale.
                    Mrs. Ormiston rose, laughing, from her place at table.
                    “That’s the correct form,” she said, “it ensures the fulfilment of the wish.
                        You ought all to have cast away your glasses regardless of expense. Come,
                        Mary, we will remove ourselves. Mind and bid me good?bye before you go, Dr.
                        Knott, and report on Lady Calmady. It’s probably the last time you’ll have
                        the felicity of seeing me. I’m off at cock?crow to?morrow morning.”
                
                
                    CHAPTER VIII
                    ENTER A CHILD OF PROMISE
                    AFTER closing the door behind the two ladies, Ormiston paused by the
                        near window and gazed out into the night. The dinner had been, in his
                        opinion, far from a success. He feared his relation to Mary Cathcart had
                        retrograded rather than progressed. He
                        wished his sister?in?law would be more correct in speech and behaviour. Then
                        he held the conversation had been in bad taste. The doctor should have
                        abstained from pressing Julius with questions. He assured himself, again,
                        that the story was not worth a moment’s serious consideration; yet he
                        resented its discussion. Such discussion seemed to him to tread hard on the
                        heels of impertinence to his sister, to her husband’s memory, and to this
                        boy, born to so excellent a position and so great wealth. And the worst of
                        it was that, like a fool, he had started the subject himself!
                    “The wind’s rising,” he remarked at last. “You’ll have a rough drive home,
                        Knott.”
                    “It won’t be the first one. And my beauty’s of the kind which takes a lot of
                        spoiling.”
                    The answer did not please the young man. He sauntered across the room and
                        dropped into his chair, with a slightly insolent demeanour.
                    “All the same, don’t let me detain you,” he said, “if you prefer seeing Lady
                        Calmady at once and getting off.”
                    “You don’t detain me,” Dr. Knott answered. “I’m afraid it’s just the other
                        way about and that I must detain you, Captain Ormiston, and that on rather
                        unpleasant business.”
                    Julius March had risen to his feet. “You—you have no fresh cause for anxiety
                        about Lady Calmady?” he said hurriedly.
                    The doctor glanced up at the tall, spare, black figure and dark, sensitive
                        face with a half?sneering, half?pitying smile.
                    “Oh no, no!” he replied; “Lady Calmady’s going on splendidly. And it is to
                        guard, just as far as we can, against cause for anxiety later, that I want
                        to speak to Captain Ormiston now. We’ve got to be prepared for certain
                        contingencies. Don’t you go, Mr. March. You may as well hear what I’ve to
                        say. It will interest you particularly, I fancy, after one or two things you
                        have told us to?night!”
                    “Sit down, Julius, please.”—Ormiston would have liked to maintain that same
                        insolence of demeanour, but it gave before an apprehension of serious
                        issues. He looked hard at the doctor, cudgelling his brains as to what the
                        latter’s enigmatic speech might mean—divined, put the idea away as
                        inadmissible, returned to it, then said angrily:—“There’s nothing wrong with
                        the child, of course?”
                    Dr. Knott turned his chair sideways to the table and shaded his face with his
                        thick, square hand.
                    “Well, that depends on what you call wrong,” he slowly replied.
                    “It’s not ill?” Ormiston said.
                    
                    “The baby’s as well as you or I—better, in fact, than I am, for I am
                        confoundedly touched up with gout. Bear that in mind, Captain Ormiston—that
                        the child is well, I mean, not that I am gouty. I want you to definitely
                        remember that, you and Mr. March.”
                    “Well, then, what on earth is the matter?” Ormiston asked sharply. “You don’t
                        mean to imply it is injured in any way, deformed?”
                    Dr. Knott let his hand drop on the table. He nodded his head. Ormiston
                        perceived, and it moved him strangely, that the doctor’s eyes were wet.
                    “Not deformed,” he answered. “Technically you can hardly call it that, but
                        maimed.”
                    “Badly?”
                    “Well, that’s a matter of opinion. You or I should think it bad enough, I
                        fancy, if we found ourselves in the same boat.” He settled himself back in
                        his chair.—“You had better understand it quite clearly,” he continued, “at
                        least as clearly as I can put it to you. There comes a point where I cannot
                        explain the facts but only state them. You have heard of spontaneous
                        amputation?”
                    Across Ormiston’s mind came the remembrance of a litter of puppies he had
                        seen in the sanctum of the veterinary surgeon of his regiment. A lump rose
                        in his throat.
                    “Yes, go on,” he said.
                    “It is a thing that does not happen once in most men’s experience. I have
                        only seen one case before in all my practice and that was nothing very
                        serious. This is an extraordinary example. I need not remind you of Sir
                        Richard Calmady’s accident and the subsequent operation?”
                    “Of course not—go on,” Ormiston repeated.
                    “In both cases the leg is gone from here,” the doctor continued, laying the
                        edge of his palm across the thigh immediately above the knee. “The foot is
                        there—that is the amazing part of it—and, as far as I can see, is well
                        formed and of the normal size, but so embedded in the stump that I cannot
                        discover whether the ankle?joint and bones of the lower leg exist in a
                        contracted form or not.”
                    Ormiston poured himself out a glass of port. His hand shook so that the lip
                        of the decanter chattered against the lip of the glass. He gulped down the
                        wine and, getting up, walked the length of the room and back again.
                    “God in heaven,” he murmured, “how horrible! Poor Kitty, how utterly
                        horrible!—Poor Kitty.”
                    
                    For the baby, in his own fine completeness, he had as yet no feeling but one
                        of repulsion.
                    “Can nothing be done, Knott?” he asked at last.
                    “Obviously nothing.”
                    “And it will live?”
                    “Oh! bless you, yes! It’ll live fast enough if I know a healthy infant when I
                        see one. And I ought to know ’em by now. I’ve brought them into the world by
                        dozens for my sins.”
                    “Will it be able to walk?”
                    “Umph—well—shuffle,” the doctor answered, smiling savagely to keep back the
                        tears.
                    The young man leaned his elbows on the table, and rested his head on his
                        hands. All this shocked him inexpressibly—shocked him almost to the point of
                        physical illness. Strong as he was he could have fainted, just then, had he
                        yielded by ever so little. And this was the boy whom they had so longed for
                        then! The child on whom they had set such fond hopes, who was to be the
                        pride of his young mother, and restore the so rudely shaken balance of her
                        life! This was the boy who should go to Eton, and into some crack regiment,
                        who should ride straight, who was heir to great possessions!
                    “The saviour has come, you see, Mr. March, in as thorough?paced a disguise as
                        ever saviour did yet,” John Knott said cynically.
                    “He had better never have come at all!” Ormiston put in fiercely, from behind
                        his hands.
                    “Yes—very likely—I believe I agree,” the doctor answered. “Only it remains
                        that he has come, is feeding, growing, stretching, and bellowing too, like a
                        young bull?calf, when anything doesn’t suit him. He is here, very much here,
                        I tell you. And so we have just got to consider how to make the best of him,
                        both for his own sake and for Lady Calmady’s. And you must understand he is
                        a splendid, little animal, clean skinned and strong, as you would expect,
                        being the child of two such fine young people. He is beautiful,—I am old
                        fashioned enough, perhaps scientific enough, to put a good deal of faith in
                        that notion,—beautiful as a child only can be who is born of the passion of
                        true lovers.”
                    He paused, looking somewhat mockingly at Julius.
                    “Yes, love is an incalculably great, natural force,” he continued. “It comes
                        uncommonly near working miracles at times, unconscious and rather deplorable
                        miracles. In this case it has worked strangely against itself—at once for
                        irreparable injury and for perfection. For the child is perfect, is superb,
                        but for the one thing.”
                    
                    “Does my sister know?” Ormiston asked hoarsely.
                    “Not yet; and, as long as we can keep the truth from her she had better not
                        know. We must get her a little stronger, if we can, first. That woman, Mrs.
                        Denny, is worth her weight in gold, and her weight’s not inconsiderable. She
                        has her wits about her, and has contrived to meet all difficulties so
                        far.”
                    Ormiston sat in the same dejected attitude.
                    “But my sister is bound to know before long.”
                    “Of course. When she is a bit better she’ll want to have the baby to play
                        with, dress and undress it and see what the queer little being is made of.
                        It’s a way young mothers have, and a very pretty way too. If we keep the
                        child from her she will grow suspicious, and take means to find out for
                        herself, and that won’t do. It must not be. I won’t be responsible for the
                        consequences. So as soon as she asks a definite question, she must have a
                        definite answer.”
                    The young man looked up quickly.
                    “And who is to give the answer?” he said.
                    “Well, it rests chiefly with you to decide that. Clearly she ought not to
                        hear this thing from a servant. It is too serious. It needs to be well
                        told—the whole kept at a high level, if you understand me. Give Lady Calmady
                        a great part and she will play it nobly. Let this come upon her from a mean,
                        wet?nurse, hospital?ward sort of level, and it may break her. What we have
                        to do is to keep up her pluck. Remember we are only at the beginning of this
                        business yet. In all probability there are many years ahead. Therefore this
                        announcement must come to Lady Calmady from an educated person, from an
                        equal, from somebody who can see all round it. Mrs. Ormiston tells me she
                        leaves here to?morrow morning?”
                    “Mrs. Ormiston is out of the question anyhow,” Roger exclaimed rather
                        bitterly.
                    Here Julius March, who had so far been silent, spoke, and, in speaking,
                        showed what manner of spirit he was of. The doctor agitated him, treated
                        him, moreover, with scant courtesy. But Julius put this aside. He could
                        afford to forget himself in his desire for any possible mitigation of the
                        blow which must fall on Katherine Calmady. And, listening to his talk, he
                        had, in the last quarter of an hour, gained conviction not only of this
                        man’s ability, but of his humanity, of his possession of the peculiar
                        gentleness which so often, mercifully, goes along with unusual strength. As
                        the coarse?looking hand could soothe, touching delicately, so the hard
                        intellect and rough tongue could, he
                        believed, modulate themselves to very consoling and inspiring tenderness of
                        thought and speech.
                    “We have you, Dr. Knott,” he said. “No one, I think, could better break this
                        terrible sorrow to Lady Calmady, than yourself.”
                    “Thank you—you are generous, Mr. March,” the other answered cordially; adding
                        to himself:—“Got to revise my opinion of the black coat. Didn’t quite
                        deserve that after the way you’ve badgered him, eh, John Knott?”
                    He shrugged his big shoulders a little shamefacedly.
                    “Of course, I’d do my best,” he continued. “But you see ten to one I shan’t
                        be here at the moment. As it is, I have neglected lingering sicknesses and
                        sudden deaths, hysterical girls, croupy children, broken legs, and all the
                        other pretty little amusements of a rather large practice, waiting for me.
                        Suppose I happen to be twenty miles away on the far side of Westchurch, or
                        seeing after some of Lady Fallowfeild’s numerous progeny engaged in teething
                        or measles? Lady Calmady might be kept waiting, and we cannot afford to have
                        her kept waiting in this crisis.”
                    “I wish to God my aunt, Mrs. St. Quentin, was here!”’ Ormiston exclaimed.
                        “But she is not, and won’t be, alas!”
                    “Well, then, who remains?”
                    As the doctor spoke he pressed his fingers against the edge of the table,
                        leaned forward, and looked keenly at Ormiston. He was extremely ugly just
                        then, ugly as the weather?worn gargoyle on some mediæval church tower, but
                        his eyes were curiously compelling.
                    “Good heavens! you don’t mean that I’ve got to tell her?” Ormiston cried.
                    He rose hurriedly, thrust his hands into his pockets, and walked a little
                        unsteadily across to the window, crunching the shining pieces of Mrs.
                        Ormiston’s sacrificial wine glass under foot. Outside the night was very
                        wild. In the colourless sky stars reeled among the fleets of racing cloud.
                        The wind hissed up the grass slopes and shouted among the great trees
                        crowning the ridge of the hill. The prospect was not calculated to
                        encourage. Ormiston turned his back on it. But hardly more encouraging was
                        the sombre, grey?blue?walled room. The vision of all that often returned to
                        him afterwards in very different scenes—the tall lamps, the two men, so
                        strangely dissimilar in appearance and temperament, sitting on either side
                        the dinner?table with its fine linen and silver, wines and fruits, waiting.
                        silently for him to speak.
                    “I can’t tell her,” he said, “I can’t. Damn it all, I tell you, Knott, I daren’t. Think what it will be to her!
                        Think of being told that about your own child!”—Ormiston lost control of
                        himself. He spoke violently. “I’m so awfully fond of her and proud of her,”
                        he went on. “She’s behaved so splendidly ever since Richard’s death, laid
                        hold of all the business, never spared herself, been so able and so just.
                        And now the baby coming, and being a boy, seemed to be a sort of let up, a
                        reward to her for all her goodness. To tell her this horrible thing will be
                        like doing her some hideous wrong. If her heart has to be broken, in common
                        charity don’t ask me to break it.”
                    There was a pause. He came back to the table and stood behind Julius March’s
                        chair.
                    “It’s asking me to be hangman to my own sister,” he said.
                    “Yes, I know it is a confoundedly nasty piece of work. And it’s rough on you,
                        very rough. Only, you see, this hanging has to be put through—there’s the
                        nuisance. And it is just a question whether your hand won’t be the lightest
                        after all.”
                    Again silence obtained, but for the rush and sob of the gale against the
                        great house.
                    “What do you say, Julius?” Ormiston demanded at last.
                    “I suppose our only thought is for Katherine—for Lady Calmady?” he said. “And
                        in that case I agree with Dr. Knott.”
                    Roger took another turn to the window, stood there awhile struggling with his
                        natural desire to escape from so painful an embassy.
                    “Very well, if you are not here, Knott, I undertake to tell her,” he said at
                        last. “Please God, she mayn’t turn against me altogether for bringing her
                        such news. I’ll be on hand for the next few days, and—you must explain to
                        Denny that I am to be sent for whenever I am wanted. That’s all—I suppose we
                        may as well go now, mayn’t we?”
                    Julius knelt at the faldstool, without the altar rails of the chapel, till
                        the light showed faintly through the grisaille of the stained?glass windows
                        and outlined the spires and carven canopies of the stalls. At first his
                        prayers were definite, petitions for mercy and grace to be outpoured on the
                        fair, young mother and her, seemingly, so cruelly afflicted child; on
                        himself, too, that he might be permitted to stay here, and serve her through
                        the difficult future. If she had been sacred before, Katherine was doubly
                        sacred to him now. He bowed himself, in reverential awe, before the thought
                        of her martyrdom. How would her proud and
                        naturally joyous spirit bear the bitter pains of it? Would it make,
                        eventually, for evil or for good? And then—the ascetic within him asserting
                        itself, notwithstanding the widening of outlook produced by the awakening of
                        his heart—he was overtaken by a great horror of that which we call matter;
                        by a revolt against the body, and those torments and shames, mental, moral,
                        and physical, which the body brings along with it. Surely the dualists were
                        right? It was unregenerate, a thing, if made by God, yet wholly fallen away
                        from grace and given over to evil, this fleshly envelope wherein the human
                        soul is seated, and which, even in the womb, may be infected by disease or
                        rendered hideous by mutilation? Then, as the languor of his long vigil
                        overcame him, he passed into an ecstatic contemplation of the state of that
                        same soul after death, clothed with a garment of incorruptible and enduring
                        beauty, dwelling in clear, luminous spaces, worshipping among the ranks of
                        the redeemed, beholding its Lord God face to face.
                    John Knott, meanwhile, after driving home beneath the reeling stars, through
                        the roar of the forest and shriek of the wind across the open moors, found
                        an urgent summons awaiting him. He spent the remainder of that night, not in
                        dreams of paradise and of spirits redeemed from the thraldom of the flesh,
                        but in increasing the population of this astonishing planet, by assisting to
                        deliver a scrofulous, half?witted, shrieking servant?girl of
                        twins—illegitimate—in the fusty atmosphere of a cottage garret, right up
                        under the rat?eaten thatch.
                
                
                    CHAPTER IX
                    IN WHICH KATHERINE CALMADY LOOKS ON HER SON
                    MORE than a week elapsed before Ormiston was called upon to redeem
                        his promise. For Lady Calmady’s convalescence was slow. An apathy held her,
                        which was tranquillising rather than tedious. She was glad to lie still and
                        rest. She found it very soothing to be shut away from the many obligations
                        of active life for a while; to watch the sunlight, on fair days, shift from
                        east by south to west, across the warm fragrant room; to see the changing
                        clouds in the delicate, spring sky, and the slow?dying crimson and violet of
                        the sunset; to hear the sudden hurry of failing rain, the subdued voices of
                        the women in the adjoining nursery, and,
                        sometimes, the lusty protestations of her baby when—as John Knott had put
                        it—“things didn’t suit him.” She felt a little jealous of the comely, young
                        wet?nurse, a little desirous to be more intimately acquainted with this
                        small, new Richard Calmady, on whom all her hopes for the future were set.
                        But, immediately, she was very submissive to the restrictions laid by Denny
                        and the doctor upon her intercourse with the child. She only stood on the
                        threshold of motherhood as yet. While the inevitable exhaustion, following
                        on the excitement of her spring and summer of joy, her autumn of bitter
                        sorrow, and her winter of hard work, asserted itself now that she had time
                        and opportunity for rest.
                    The hangings and coverlet of the great, ebony, half?tester bed were lined
                        with rose silk, and worked, with many coloured worsteds on a white ground,
                        in the elaborate Persian pattern so popular among industrious ladies of
                        leisure in the reign of good Queen Anne. It may be questioned whether the
                        parable, wrought out with such patience of innumerable stitches, was closely
                        comprehensible or sympathetic to the said ladies; since a particularly wide
                        interval, both of philosophy and practice, would seem to divide the temper
                        of the early eighteenth century from that of the mystic East. Still the
                        parable was there, plain to whoso could read it; and not—perhaps rather
                        pathetically—without its modern application.
                    The Powers of Evil, in the form of a Leopard, pursue the soul of man,
                        symbolised by a Hart, through the Forest of This Life. In the midst of that
                        same forest stands an airy, domed pavilion, in which—if so be it have
                        strength and fleetness to reach it—the panting, hunted creature may, for a
                        time, find security and repose. Above this resting?place the trees of the
                        forest interlace their spreading branches, loaded with amazing leaves and
                        fruit; while companies of rainbow?hued birds, standing very upright upon
                        nothing in particular, entertain themselves by holding singularly
                        indigestible looking cherries and mulberries in their yellow beaks.
                    And so, Katherine, resting in dreamy quiet within the shade of the
                        embroidered curtains, was even as the Hart pasturing in temporary security
                        before the quaint pavilion. The mark of her bereavement was upon her
                        sensibly still—would be so until the end. Often in the night, when Denny had
                        at last left her, she would wake suddenly and stretch her arms out across
                        the vacant space of the wide bed, calling softly to the beloved one who
                        could give no answer, and then, recollecting, would sob herself again to
                        sleep. Often, too, as Ormiston’s step sounded through the Chapel?Room when he came to pay her those short, frequent
                        visits, bringing the clean freshness of the outer air along with him,
                        Katherine would look up in a wondering gladness, cheating herself for an
                        instant with unreasoning delight—look up, only to know her sorrow, and feel
                        the knife turn in the wound. Nevertheless these days made, in the main, for
                        peace and healing. On more than one occasion she petitioned that Julius
                        March should come and read to her, choosing, as the book he should read
                        from, Spenser’s Faerie Queene. He obeyed, in manner calm, in
                        spirit deeply moved. Katherine spoke little. But her charm was great, as she
                        lay, her eyes changeful in colour as a moorland stream, listening to those
                        intricate stanzas, in which the large hope, the pride of honourable deeds,
                        the virtue, the patriotism, the masculine fearlessness, the ideality, the
                        fantastic imagination, of the English Renaissance so nobly finds voice. They
                        comforted her mind, set by instinct and training to welcome all splendid
                        adventures of romance, of nature, and of faith. They carried her back, in
                        dear remembrance, to the perplexing and enchanting discoveries which Richard
                        Calmady’s visit to Ormiston Castle—the many?towered, grey house looking
                        eastward across the unquiet sea—had brought to her. And specially did they
                        recall to her that first evening—even yet she grew hot as she thought of
                        it—when the supposed gentleman?jockey, whom she had purposed treating with
                        gay and reducing indifference, proved not only fine scholar and fine
                        gentleman, but absolute and indisputable master of her heart.
                    Dr. Knott came to see her, too, almost daily—rough, tender?hearted, humorous,
                        dependable, never losing sight, in his intercourse with her, of the matter
                        in hand, of the thing which immediately is.
                    Thus did these three men, each according to his nature and capacity, strive
                        to guard the poor Hart, pasturing before the quaint pavilion, set—for its
                        passing refreshment—in the midst of the Forest of This Life, and to keep,
                        just so long as was possible, the pursuing Leopard at bay. Nevertheless the
                        Leopard gained, despite of their faithful guardianship—which was inevitable,
                        the case standing as it did.
                    For one bright afternoon, about three o’clock, Mrs. Denny arrived in the
                        gun?room, where Ormiston sat smoking, while talking over with Julius the
                        turf?cutting claims of certain squatters on Spendle Flats—arrived, not to
                        summon the latter to further readings of the great Elizabethan poet, but to
                        say to the former:—
                    “Will you please come at once, sir? Her ladyship is sitting up. She is a little difficult about the
                        baby—only, you know, sir, if I can say it with all respect, in her pretty,
                        teasing way. But I am afraid she must be told.”
                    And Roger rose and went—sick at heart. He would rather have faced an enemy’s
                        battery, vomiting out shot and shell, than gone up the broad, stately
                        staircase, and by the silent, sunny passage?ways, to that fragrant,
                        white?panelled room.
                    On the stands and tables were bowls full of clear?coloured, spring
                        flowers—early primrose, jonquil, and narcissus. A wood?fire burned upon the
                        blue?and?white tiled hearth. And on the sofa, drawn up at right angles to
                        it, Katherine sat, wrapped in a grey, silk dressing?gown bordered with soft,
                        white fur. She flushed slightly as her brother came in, and spoke to him
                        with an air of playful apology.
                    “I really don’t know why you should have been dragged up here, just now, dear
                        old man! It is some fancy of Denny’s. I’m afraid in the excess of her
                        devotion she makes me rather a nuisance to you. And now, not contented with
                        fussing about me, she has taken to being absurdly mysterious about the
                        baby”—
                    She stopped abruptly. Something in the young man’s expression and bearing
                        impressed her, causing her to stretch out her hands to him in swift fear and
                        entreaty.
                    “Oh, Roger!” she cried, “Roger—what is it?”
                    And he told her, repeating, with but a few omissions, the statement made to
                        him by the doctor ten days ago. He dared not look at her while he spoke,
                        lest seeing her should unnerve him altogether.
                    Katherine was very still. She made no outcry. Yet her very stillness seemed
                        to him the more ominous, and the horror of the recital grew upon him. His
                        voice sounded to him unnaturally loud and harsh in the surrounding quiet.
                        Once her silken draperies gave a shuddering rustle—that was all.
                    At last it was over. At last he dared to look at her. The colour and youthful
                        roundness had gone out of her face. It was grey as her dress, fixed and
                        rigid as a marble mask. Ormiston was overcome with a consuming pity for her
                        and with a violence of self?hatred. Hangman, and to his own sister—in truth,
                        it seemed to him to have come to that! He knelt down in front of her, laying
                        hold of both her knees.
                    “Kitty, can you ever forgive me for telling you this?” he asked hoarsely.
                    Even in this extremity Katherine’s inherent sweetness asserted itself. She would have smiled, but her frozen
                        lips refused. Her eyelids quivered a little and closed.
                    “I have nothing to forgive you, dear,” she said. “Indeed, it is good of you
                        to tell me, since—since so it is.”
                    She put her hands upon his shoulders, gripping them fast, and bowed her head.
                        The little flames crackled, dancing among the pine logs, and the silk of her
                        dress rustled as her bosom rose and fell.
                    “It won’t make you ill again?” Roger asked anxiously.
                    Katherine shook her head.
                    “Oh no!” she said, “I have no more time for illness. This is a thing to cure,
                        as a cautery cures—to burn away all idleness and self?indulgent, sick?room
                        fancies. See, I am strong, I am well.”
                    She stood up, her hands slipping down from Ormiston’s shoulders and steadying
                        themselves on his hands as he too rose. Her face was still ashen, but
                        purpose and decision had come into her eyes.
                    “Do this for me,” she said, almost imperiously. “Go to Denny, tell her to
                        bring me the baby. She is to leave him with me. And tell her, as she loves
                        both him and me,—as she values her place here at Brockhurst,—she is not to
                        speak.”
                    As he looked at her Ormiston turned cold. She was terrible just then.
                    “Katherine,” he said quickly, “what on earth are you going to do?”
                    “No harm to my baby in any case—you need not be alarmed. I am quite to be
                        trusted. Only I cannot be reasoned with or opposed, still less condoled with
                        or comforted, yet. I want my baby, and I must have him, here, alone, the
                        doors shut—locked if I please.”—Her lips gave, the corners of her mouth
                        drooped. And watching her Ormiston swore a little under his breath.—“We have
                        something to say to each other, the baby and I,” she went on, “which no one
                        else may hear. So do what I ask you, Roger. And come back—I may want you—in
                        about an hour, if I do not send for you before.”
                    Alone with her child, Lady Calmady moved slowly across and bolted both the
                        nursery and the Chapel?Room doors. Then she drew a low stool up in front of
                        the fire and sat down, laying the infant upon her lap. It was a delicious,
                        dimpled creature, with a quantity of silky, golden?brown hair, that curled
                        in a tiny crest along the top of its head. It was but half awake yet, the
                        rounded cheeks pink with the comfort of food and slumber. And as the
                        beautiful, young mother, bending that set, ashen face of hers above it, laid the child upon her
                        knees, it stretched, clenching soft, baby fists and rubbing them into its
                        blue eyes.
                    Katherine unwrapped the shawls, and took off one small garment after
                        another—delicate gossamer?like things of fine flannel, lawn and lace, such
                        as women’s fingers linger over in the making with tender joy. Once her
                        resolution failed her. She wrapped the half?dressed child in its white
                        shawls again, rose from her place and walked over to the sunny window,
                        carrying it in the hollow of her arm—it staring up, meanwhile, with the
                        strange wonder of baby eyes, and cooing, as though holding communication
                        with gracious presences haunting the moulded ceiling above. Katherine gazed
                        at it for a few seconds. But the little creature’s serene content, its
                        absolute unconsciousness of its own evil fortune, pained her too greatly.
                        She went back, sat down on the stool again, and completed the task she had
                        set herself.
                    Then, the baby lying stark naked on her lap, she studied the fair, little
                        face, the pencilled eyebrows and fringed eyelids—dark like her own,—the
                        firm, rounded arms, the rosy?palmed hands, their dainty fingers and
                        finger?nails, the well?proportioned and well?nourished body, without
                        smallest mark or blemish upon it, sound, wholesome, and complete. All these
                        she studied long and carefully, while the dancing glow of the firelight
                        played over the child’s delicate flesh, and it extended its little arms in
                        the pleasant warmth, holding them up, as in act of adoration, towards those
                        gracious unseen presences, still, apparently, hovering above the flood of
                        instreaming sunshine against the ceiling overhead. Lastly she turned her
                        eyes, with almost dreadful courage, upon the mutilated, malformed limbs,
                        upon the feet—set right up where the knee should have been, thus dwarfing
                        the child by a fourth of his height. She observed them, handled, felt them.
                        And, as she did so, her mother?love, which, until now, had been but a part
                        and consequence—since the child was his gift, the crown and outcome of their
                        passion, his and hers—of the great love she bore her husband, became
                        distinct from that, an emotion by itself, heretofore unimagined, pervasive
                        of all her being. It had none of the sweet self?abandon, the dear
                        enchantments, the harmonising sense of safety and repose, which that earlier
                        passion had. This was altogether different in character, and made quite
                        other demands on mind and heart. For it was fierce, watchful, anxious,
                        violent with primitive instinct; the roots of it planted far back in that
                        unthinkable remoteness of time, when the fertile womb of the great Earth
                        Mother began to bring forth the first blind, simple forms of those countless generations of living creatures
                        which, slowly differentiating themselves, slowly developing, have peopled
                        this planet from that immeasurable past to the present hour. Love between
                        man and woman must be forever young, even as Eros, Cupid, Krishna, are
                        forever youthful gods. But mother?love is of necessity mature, majestic,
                        ancient, from the stamp of primal experience which is upon it.
                    And so, at this juncture, realising that which her motherhood meant, her
                        immaturity, her girlhood, fell away from Katherine Calmady. Her life and the
                        purpose of it moved forward on another plane.
                    She bent down and solemnly kissed the unlovely, shortened limbs, not once or
                        twice but many times, yielding herself up with an almost voluptuous
                        intensity to her own emotion. She clasped her hands about her knees, so that
                        the child might be enclosed, over?shadowed, embraced on all sides, by the
                        living defences of its mother’s love. Alone there, with no witnesses, she
                        brooded over it, crooned to it, caressed it with an insatiable hunger of
                        tenderness.
                    “And yet, my poor pretty, if we had both died, you and I, ten days ago,” she
                        murmured, “how far better! For what will you say to me when you grow
                        older—to me who have brought you, without any asking or will of yours, into
                        a world in which you must always be at so cruel a disadvantage? How will you
                        bear it all when you come to face it for yourself, and I can no longer
                        shield you and hide you away as I can do now? Will you have fortitude to
                        endure, or will you become sour, vindictive, misanthropic, envious? Will you
                        curse the hour of your birth?”
                    Katherine bowed her proud head still lower.
                    “Ah! don’t do that, my darling,” she prayed in piteous entreaty, “don’t do
                        that. For I will share all your trouble, do share it even now, beforehand,
                        foreseeing it, while you still lie smiling unknowing of your own distress. I
                        shall live through it many times, by day and night, while you live through
                        it only once. And so you must be forbearing towards me, my dear one, when
                        you come”—
                    She broke off abruptly, her hands fell at her sides, and she sat rigidly
                        upright, her lips parted, staring blankly at the dancing flames.
                    In repeating Dr. Knott’s statement Ormiston had purposely abstained from all
                        mention of Richard Calmady’s accident and its tragic sequel. He could not
                        bring himself to speak to Katherine of that. Until now, dominated by the
                        rush of her emotion, she had only
                        recognised the bare terrible fact of the baby’s crippled condition, without
                        attempting to account for it. But, now, suddenly the truth presented itself
                        to her. She understood that she was herself, in a sense, accountable—that
                        the greatness of her love for the father had maimed the child.
                    As she realised the profound irony of the position, a blackness of misery
                        fell upon Katherine. And then, since she was of a strong, undaunted spirit,
                        an immense anger possessed her, a revolt against nature which could work
                        such wanton injury, and against God, who, being all?powerful, could sit by
                        and permit it so to work. All the foundations of faith and reverence were,
                        for the time being, shaken to the very base.
                    She gathered the naked baby up against her bosom, rocking herself to and fro
                        in a paroxysm of rebellious grief.
                    “God is unjust!” she cried aloud. “He takes pleasure in fooling us. God is
                        unjust!”
                
                
                    CHAPTER X
                    THE BIRDS OF THE AIR TAKE THEIR BREAKFAST
                    ORMISTON’S first sensation on re?entering his sister’s room was one
                        of very sensible relief. For Katherine leaned back against the pink, brocade
                        cushions in the corner of the sofa, with the baby sleeping peacefully in her
                        arms. Her colour was more normal too, her features less masklike and set.
                        The cloud which had shadowed the young man’s mind for nearly a fortnight
                        lifted. She knew—therefore, he argued, the worst must be over. It was an
                        immense gain that this thing was fairly said. Yet, as he came nearer and sat
                        down on the sofa beside her, Ormiston, who was a keen observer both of
                        horses and women, became aware of a subtle change in Katherine. He was
                        struck—he had never noticed it before—by her likeness to her—and his—father,
                        whose stern, high?bred, clean?shaven face and rather inaccessible bearing
                        and manner impressed his son, even to this day, as somewhat alarming. People
                        were careful not to trifle with old Mr. Ormiston. His will was absolute in
                        his own house, with his tenants, and in the great iron?works—almost a town
                        in itself—which fed his fine fortune. While from his equals—even from his
                        fellow?members of that not over?reverent or easily impressible body, the
                        House of Commons—he required and received a degree of deference such as men
                            yield only to an unusually powerful
                        character. And there was now just such underlying energy in Katherine’s
                        expression. Her eyes were dark, as a clear, midnight sky is dark, her
                        beautiful lips compressed, but with concentration of purpose not with
                        weakness of sorrow. The force of her motherhood had awakened in Katherine a
                        latent, titanic element. Like “Prometheus Bound,” chained to the rock, torn,
                        her spirit remained unquelled. For good or evil—as the event should
                        prove—she defied the gods.
                    And something of all this—though he would have worded it very differently in
                        the vernacular of passing fashion—Ormiston perceived. She was unbroken by
                        that which had occurred, and for this he was thankful. But she was another
                        woman to her who had greeted him in pretty apology an hour ago. Yet, even
                        recognising this, her first words produced in him a shock of surprise.
                    “Is that horse, the Clown, still at the stables?” she asked.
                    Ormiston thrust his hands into his pockets, and, sitting on the edge of the
                        sofa with his knees apart, stared down at the carpet. The mention of the
                        Clown always cut him, and raised in him a remorseful anger.—Yes she was like
                        his father, going straight to the point, he thought. And, in this case, the
                        point was acutely painful to him personally. Ormiston’s moral courage had
                        been severely taxed, and he had a fair share of the selfishness common to
                        man. It was all very well, but he wished to goodness she had chosen some
                        other subject than this. Yet he must answer.
                    “Yes,” he said; “Willy Taylor has been leading the gallops for the
                        two?year?olds on him for the last month.”—He paused. “What about the
                        Clown?”
                    “Only that I should be glad if you would tell Chifney he must find some other
                        horse to lead the gallops.”
                    Ormiston turned his head. “I see—you wish the horse sold,” he said, over his
                        shoulder.
                    Katherine looked down at the sleeping baby, its round head, crowned by that
                        delicious crest of silky hair, cuddled in against her breast. Then she
                        looked in her brother’s eyes full and steadily.
                    “No,” she answered. “I don’t want it sold. I want it shot—by you, here,
                        to?night.”
                    “By Jove!” the young man exclaimed, rising hastily and standing in front of
                        her.
                    Katherine gazed up at him, and held the child a little closer to her
                        breast.
                    
                    “I have been alone with my baby. Don’t you suppose I see how it has come
                        about?” she asked.
                    “Oh, damn it all!” Ormiston cried. “I prayed at least you might be spared
                        thinking of that.”
                    He flung himself down on the sofa again—while the baby clenching its tiny
                        fist, stretched and murmured in its sleep—and bowed himself together,
                        resting his elbows on his knees and his chin in his hands.
                    “I’m at the bottom of it. It’s all my fault,” he said. “I am haunted by the
                        thought of that day and night, for, if ever one man loved another, I loved
                        Richard. And yet if I hadn’t been so cursedly keen about the horse all this
                        might never have happened. Oh! if you only knew how often I’ve wished myself
                        dead since that ghastly morning. You must hate me, Kitty. You’ve cause
                        enough. Yet how the deuce could I foresee what would come about?”
                    For the moment Katherine’s expression softened. She laid her left hand very
                        gently on his bowed head.
                    “I could never hate you, dear old man,” she said. “You are innocent of
                        Richard’s death. But this last thing is different.”—Her voice became fuller
                        and deeper in tone. “And whether I am equally innocent of his child’s
                        disfigurement, God only knows—if there is a God, which perhaps, just now, I
                        had better doubt, lest I should blaspheme too loudly, hoping my bitter words
                        may reach His hearing.”
                    Yet further disturbed in the completeness of its comfort, as it would seem,
                        by the seriousness of her voice, the baby’s mouth puckered. It began to
                        fret. Katherine rose and stood rocking it, soothing it—a queenly, young
                        figure in her clinging grey and white draperies, which the instreaming
                        sunshine touched, as she moved, to a delicate warmth of colour.
                    “Hush, my pretty lamb,” she crooned—and then softly yet fiercely to
                        Ormiston:—“You understand, I wish it. The Clown is to be shot.”
                    “Very well,” he answered.
                    “Sleep—what troubles you, my precious,” she went on. “I want it done, now, at
                        once.—Hush, baby, hush.—The sun shall not go down upon my wrath, because my
                        wrath shall be somewhat appeased before the sunset.”
                    Katherine swayed with a rhythmic motion, holding the baby a little away from
                        her in her outstretched arms.
                    “Tell Chifney to bring the horse up to the square lawn, here, right in front
                        of the house.—Hush, my kitty sweet.—He is to bring the horse himself. None
                        of the stable boys or helpers are to come.
                        It is not to be an entertainment, but an execution. I wish it done
                        quietly.”
                    “Very well,” Ormiston repeated. He hesitated, strong protest rising to his
                        lips, which he could not quite bring himself to utter. Katherine, the
                        courage and tragedy of her anger, dominated him as she moved to and fro in
                        the sunshine soothing her child.
                    “You know it’s a valuable horse?” he remarked, at last, tentatively.
                    “So much the better. You do not suppose I should care to take that which
                        costs me nothing? I am quite willing to pay.—Sleep, my pet, so—is that
                        better?—I do not propose to defraud—hush, baby darling, hush—Richard’s son
                        of any part of his inheritance. Tell Chifney to name a price for the Clown,
                        an outside price. He shall have a cheque to?morrow, which he is to enter
                        with the rest of the stable accounts.—Now go, please. We understand each
                        other clearly, and it is growing late.—Poor honey love, what vexes you?—You
                        will shoot the Clown, here, before sunset. And, Roger, it must lie where it
                        falls to?night. Let some of the men come early to?morrow, with a float. It
                        is to go to the kennels.”
                    Ormiston got up, shaking his shoulders as though to rid himself of some
                        encumbering weight. He crossed to the fire?place and kicked the logs
                        together.
                    “I don’t half like it,” he said. “I tell you I don’t. It seems such a
                        cold?blooded butchery. I can’t tell if it’s wrong or right. It seems
                        merciless. And it is so unlike you, Kitty, to be merciless.”
                    He turned to her as he spoke, and Katherine—her head erect, her eyes full of
                        the sombre fire of her profound alienation and revolt—drew her hand slowly
                        down over the fine lawn and lace of the baby’s long, white robe, and held it
                        flat against the soles of the child’s hidden feet.
                    “Look at this,” she said. “Remember, too, that the delight of my life has
                        gone from me, and that I am young yet. The years will be many—and Richard is
                        dead. Has much mercy been shown to me, do you think?”
                    And the young man seeing her, knowing the absolute sincerity of her speech,
                        felt a lump rise in his throat. After all, when you have acted hangman to
                        your own sister, as he reasoned, it is but a small matter to act
                        slaughterman to a horse.
                    “Very well,” he answered, huskily enough. “It shall be as you wish, Kitty.
                        Only go back to the sofa, and stay there, please. If I think you are
                        watching, I can’t be quite sure of myself.
                        Something may go wrong, and we don’t want a scene which will make talk. This
                        is a business which should be got through as quickly and decently as
                        possible.”
                    The sun was but five minutes high and no longer brightened the southern
                        house?front, though it spread a ruddy splendour over the western range of
                        gables, and lingered about the stacks of slender, twisted chimneys, and cast
                        long, slanting shadows across the lawns and carriage drives, before Lady
                        Calmady’s waiting drew to a close. From the near trees of the elm avenue,
                        and from the wood overhanging the pond below the terraced kitchen?gardens,
                        came the singing of blackbirds and thrushes—whether raised as evening hymn
                        in praise of their Creator, or as love?song each to his mate, who shall say?
                        Possibly as both, since in simple minds—and that assuredly is matter for
                        thankfulness—earthly and heavenly affections are bounded by no harsh
                        dividing line. The chorus of song found its way in at the windows of
                        Katherine’s room—fresh as the spring flowers which filled it, innocent of
                        hatred and wrong as the face of the now placid baby, his soft cheeks flushed
                        with slumber, as he nestled in against his mother’s bosom.
                    Indeed a long time had passed. Twice Denny had looked in and, seeing that
                        quiet reigned, had noiselessly withdrawn. For Katherine, still physically
                        weak, drained, moreover, by the greatness of her recent emotion, her senses
                        lulled to rest by the warm contact and even breathing of the child, had sunk
                        away into a dreamless sleep.
                    The questioning neigh of a stallion, a scuffle of horse hoofs, footsteps
                        approaching round the corner of the house, passing across the broad,
                        gravelled, carriage sweep and on to the turf, aroused her. And these sounds
                        were so natural, full of vigorous outdoor life and the wholesome gladness of
                        it, that for a moment she came near repentance of her purpose. But then
                        feeling, as he rested on her arm, her baby’s shortened, malformed limbs, and
                        thinking of her well?beloved dying, maimed and spent, in the fulness of his
                        manhood, her face took on that ashen pallor again and all relenting left
                        her. There was a satisfaction of wild justice in the act about to be
                        consummated. And Katherine raised herself from the pink, brocade cushions
                        and sat erect, her lips parted in stern excitement, her forehead contracted
                        in the effort to hear, her eyes fixed on the wide, carven, ebony bed and its
                        embroidered hangings. The poor Hart had, indeed, ceased to pasture in
                        reposeful security before the quaint pavilion, set—for its passing
                        refreshment—in the midst of the Forest of This Life. Now it fled, desperate,
                        by crooked, tangled ways, over rocks,
                        through briars, while Care, the Leopard, followed hard behind.
                    First Roger Ormiston’s voice reached her in brief direction, and the
                        trainer’s in equally brief reply. The horse neighed again—a sound strident
                        and virile, the challenge of a creature of perfect muscle, hot desire, and
                        proud, quick?coursing blood. Afterwards, an instant’s pause, and Chifney’s
                        voice again—“So?ho—my beauty—take it easy—steady there, steady, good
                        lad”—and the slap of his open hand on the horse’s shoulder straightening it
                        carefully into place. While, behind and below all this, in sweet incongruous
                        undertone of uncontrollable joy, arose the carolling of the blackbirds and
                        thrushes praising, according to their humble powers, God, life, and
                        love.
                    Finally, as climax of the drama, the sharp report of a pistol, ringing out in
                        shattering disturbance of the peace of the fair spring evening, followed by
                        a dead silence, the birds all scared and dumb—a silence so dead, that
                        Katherine Calmady held her breath, almost awed by it, while the hissing and
                        crackling of the little flames upon the hearth seemed to obtrude as an
                        indecent clamour. This lasted a few seconds. Then the noise of a plunging
                        struggle and the muffled thud of something falling heavily upon the
                        turf.
                    Dr. Knott had been up all night. But his patient, Lord Denier’s second
                        coachman, would pull through right enough, so he started on his homeward
                        journey in a complacent frame of mind. He reckoned it would save him a
                        couple of miles, let alone the long hill from Farley Row up to Spendle
                        Flats, if on his way back from Grimshott he went by Brockhurst House. It is
                        stretching a point, he admitted, to drive under even your neighbour’s back
                        windows at five o’clock in the morning. But the doctor being himself
                        unusually amiable, was inclined to accredit others with a like share of good
                        temper. Moreover, the natural man in him cried increasingly loudly for food
                        and bed.
                    John Knott was not given to sentimental rhapsodies over the beauties of
                        nature. Like other beauties she had her dirty enough moods, he thought.
                        Still, in his own half?snarling fashion, he dearly loved this forest country
                        in which he had been born and bred, while he was too keen a sportsman to be
                        unobservant of any aspect of wind and weather, any movement of bird or
                        beast. With the collar of his long, drab driving?coat turned up about his
                        ears, and the stem of a well?coloured, meerschaum pipe between his teeth, he
                        sat huddled together in the high, swinging gig, with Timothy, the
                        weasel?faced, old groom, by his side, while the pageant of the opening day
                        unfolded itself before his somewhat
                        critical gaze. He noted that it would be fine, though windy. In the valley,
                        over the Long Water, spread beds of close, white mist. The blue of the upper
                        sky was crossed by curved winrows of flaky, opalescent cloud. In the east,
                        above the dusky rim of the fir woods on the edge of the high?lying
                        tableland, stretched a blinding blaze of rose?saffron, shading through amber
                        into pale primrose?colour above. The massive house?front, and the walls
                        fencing the three sides of the square enclosure before it, with the
                        sexagonal, pepper?pot summer?houses at either corner, looked pale and
                        unsubstantial in that diffused, unearthly light. At the head of the elm
                        avenue, passing through the high, wrought?iron gates and along the carriage
                        drive which skirts the said enclosure,—the great, square grass plot on the
                        right hand, the red wall of the kitchen?gardens on the left,—Dr. Knott had
                        the reins nearly jerked out of his hand. The mare started and swerved,
                        grazing the off wheel against the brickwork, and stopped, her head in the
                        air, her ears pricked, her nostrils dilated showing the red.
                    “Hullo, old girl, what’s up? Seen a ghost?” he said, drawing the whip quietly
                        across the hollow of her back.
                    But the mare only braced herself more stiffly, refusing to move, while she
                        trembled and broke into a sudden sweat. The doctor was interested and looked
                        about him. He would first find out the cause of her queer behaviour, and
                        give her a good dressing down afterwards if she deserved it.
                    The smooth, slightly up?sloping lawn was powdered with innumerable dewdrops.
                        In the centre of it, neck outstretched, the fine legs doubled awkwardly
                        together, the hind quarters and barrel rising, as it lay on its side, in an
                        unshapely lump, grey from the drenching dew, was a dead horse. Along the top
                        of the farther wall a smart and audacious party of jackdaws had stationed
                        themselves, with much ruffling of grey, neck feathers, impudent squeakings
                        and chatter. While a pair of carrion crows hopped slowly and heavily about
                        the carcass, flapping up with a stroke or two of their broad wings in sudden
                        suspicion, then settling down again nearer than before.
                    “Go to her head, Timothy, and get her by as quietly as you can. I’ll be after
                        you in a minute, but I’m bound to see what the dickens they’ve been up to
                        here.”
                    As he spoke Dr. Knott hitched himself down from off the gig. He was cramped
                        with sitting, and moved forward awkwardly, his footsteps leaving a track of
                        dark irregular patches upon the damp grass. As he approached, the jackdaws
                        flung themselves gleefully upward from the wall, the sun glinting on their
                            glossy plumage as they circled and
                        sailed away across the park. But the crow, who had just begun work in
                        earnest, stood his ground notwithstanding the warning croak of his more
                        timid mate. He grasped the horse’s skull with his claws, and tore away
                        greedily at the fine skin about the eye?socket with his strong, black
                        beak.
                    “How’s this, my fine gentleman, in too much of a hurry this morning to wait
                        for the flavour to get into your meat?” John Knott said, as the bird rose
                        sullenly at last. “Got a small hungry family at home, I suppose, crying
                        ‘give, give.’ Well, that’s taught better men than you, before now, not to be
                        too nice, but to snatch at pretty well anything they can get.”
                    He came close and stood looking meditatively down at the dead
                        racehorse—recognised its long, white?reach face, the colour and make of it,
                        while his loose lips worked with a contemptuous yet pitying smile.
                    “So that’s the way my lady’s taken it, has she?” he said presently. “On the
                        whole I don’t know that I’m sorry. In some cases much benefit unquestionably
                        is derivable from letting blood. This shows she doesn’t mean to go under, if
                        I know her, and that’s a mercy, for that poor, little beggar, the baby’s
                        sake.”
                    He turned and contemplated the stately facade of the house. The ranges of
                        windows, blind with closed shutters and drawn curtains, in the early
                        sunshine gave off their many panes a broad dazzle of white light.
                    “Poor, little beggar,” he repeated, “with his forty thousand a year and all
                        the rest of it. Such a race to run and yet so badly handicapped!”
                    He stooped down, examined the horse, found the mark of the bullet.
                    “Contradictory beings, though, these dear women,” he went on. “So fanciful
                        and delicate, so sensitive you’re afraid to lay a finger on them. So
                        unselfish, too, some of them, they seem too good for this old rough and
                        tumble of a world. And yet touch ’em home, and they’ll show an unscrupulous
                        savagery of which we coarse brutes of men should be more than half ashamed.
                        God Almighty made a little more than He bargained for when He made woman.
                        She must have surprised Him pretty shrewdly, one would think, now and then
                        since the days of the apple and the snake.”
                    He moved away up the carriage drive, following Timothy, the sweating,
                        straining mare, and swinging gig. The carrion crow flapped back, with a
                        croak, and dropped on the horse’s skull
                        again. Hearing that bodeful sound the doctor paused a moment, knocking the
                        ashes out of his pipe, and looked round at the bird and its ugly work set as
                        foreground to that pure glory of the sunrises and the vast and noble
                        landscape, misty valley, dewy grassland, far?ranging hillside crowned with
                        wood.
                    “The old story,” he muttered, “always repeating itself! And it strikes one as
                        rather a wasteful, clumsy contrivance, at times. Life forever feeding on
                        death—death forever breeding life.”
                    Thus ended the Clown, own brother to Touchstone, racehorse of merry name and
                        mournful memory, paying the penalty of wholly involuntary transgressions.
                        From which ending another era dated at Brockhurst, the most notable events
                        of which it is the purpose of the ensuing pages duly to set forth.
                
            
            
            
                BOOK II
                THE BREAKING OF DREAMS
                
                    CHAPTER I
                    RECORDING SOME ASPECTS OF A SMALL PILGRIM’S PROGRESS
                    IT is an ill wind that blows nobody good, says the comfortable
                        proverb. Which would appear to be but another manner of declaring that the
                        law of compensation works permanently in human affairs. All quantities,
                        material and immaterial alike, are, of necessity, stable; therefore the loss
                        or defect of one participant must—indirectly, no doubt, yet very surely—make
                        for the gain of some other. As of old, so now, the blood of the martyrs is
                        the seed of the Church.
                    Julius March would, how gladly, have been among the martyrs! But the lot fell
                        otherwise. And—always admitting the harshness of the limitations he had
                        imposed on himself—the martyrdom of those he held dearest, did, in fact,
                        work to secure him a measure of content that had otherwise been
                        unattainable. The twelve years following the birth of Lady Calmady’s child
                        were the most fruitful of his life. He filled a post no other person could
                        have filled; one which, while satisfying his religious sense and priestly
                        ideal of detachment, appeased the cravings of his heart and developed the
                        practical man in him. The contemplative and introspective attitude was
                        balanced by an active and objective one. For he continued to live under his
                        dear lady’s roof, seeing her daily and serving her in many matters. He
                        watched her, admiring her clear yet charitable judgment and her prudence in
                        business. He bowed in reverence before her perfect singleness of purpose. He
                        was almost appalled apprehending, now and then, the secret abysses of her
                        womanhood, the immensity of her self?devotion, the swing of her nature from
                        quick, sensitive shrinking to almost impious pride. Man is the outcome of the eternal common sense; woman that of some
                        moment of divine folly. Meanwhile the ways of true love are many, and Julius
                        March, thus watching his dear lady, discovered, as other elect souls have
                        discovered before him, that the way of chastity and silence, notwithstanding
                        its very constant heartache, is by no means among the least sweet. The
                        entries in his diaries of this period are intermittent, concise, and
                        brief—naturally enough, since the central figure of Julius’s mental picture
                        had ceased, happily for him, to be Julius himself.
                    And, not only Katherine’s sorrows, but the unselfish action of another woman,
                        went to make Julius March’s position at Brockhurst tenable. A few days after
                        Ormiston’s momentous interview with his sister, news came of Mrs. St.
                        Quentin’s death. She had passed hence peacefully in her sleep. Knowledge of
                        the facts of poor, little Dickie Calmady’s ill?fortune had been spared her.
                        For it would be more satisfactory—so Mademoiselle de Mirancourt had
                        remarked, not without a shade of irony—that if Lucia St. Quentin must learn
                        the sad fact at all, she should learn it where le
                            bon Dieu Himself would be at hand to explain matters, and so,
                        in a degree, set them right.
                    Early in April Mademoiselle de Mirancourt had gathered together her most
                        precious possessions and closed the pretty apartment in the rue de Rennes.
                        It had been a happy halting?place on the journey of life. It was haunted by
                        well?beloved ghosts. It cost her not a little to bid it, the neighbouring
                        church of the St. Germain des Près, where she had so long worshipped, and
                        her little coterie of intimate friends,
                        farewell. Yet she set forth, taking with her Henriette, the hard?featured,
                        old, Breton maid, and Monsieur Pouf, the grey,
                        Persian cat,—he protesting plaintively from within a large, Manilla
                        basket,—and thus accompanied, made pilgrimage to Brockhurst. And when
                        Katherine, all the lost joys of her girlhood assailing her at sight of her
                        lifelong friend, had broken down for once, and, laying her beautiful head on
                        the elder woman’s shoulder, had sobbed out a question as to when this visit
                        must end, Marie de Mirancourt had answered:—
                    “That, most dear one, is precisely as you shall see fit to decide. It need
                        not end till I myself end, if you so please.”
                    And when Katherine, greatly comforted yet fearing to be over?greedy of
                        comfort, had reasoned with her, reminding her of the difference of climate,
                        the different habits of living in that gay, little, Paris home and this
                        great, English country?house; reminding her, further, of her so often and
                        fondly expressed desire to retire from the
                        world while yet in the complete possession of her powers and prepare for the
                        inevitable close within the calm and sacred precincts of the convent—the
                        other replied almost gaily:—
                    “Ah, my child! I have still a naughty little spirit of experiment in me which
                        defies the barbarities of your climate. While as to the convent, it has
                        beckoned so long—let it beckon still! It called first when my fiancé died,—God rest his soul,—worn out by the
                        hardships he endured in the war of La Vendée, and I put from me, forever,
                        all thought of marriage. But then my mother, an emigrant here in London,
                        claimed all my care. It called me again when she departed, dear saintly
                        being. But then there were my brother’s sons—orphaned by the guillotine—to
                        place. And when I had established them honourably, our beloved Lucia turned
                        to me, with her many enchantments and exquisite tragedy of the heart. And,
                        now, in my old age I come to you—whom I receive from her as a welcome
                        legacy—to remain just so long as I am not a burden to you. Second childhood
                        and first should understand one another. We will play delightful games
                        together, the dear baby and I. So let the convent beckon. For the convent is
                        perhaps, after all, but an impatient grasping at the rest of paradise,
                        before that rest is fairly earned. I have a good hope that, after all, we
                        give ourselves most acceptably to God in thus giving ourselves to His human
                        creatures.”
                    Thus did Marie de Mirancourt, for love’s sake, condemn herself to exile,
                        thereby rendering possible—among other things—Julius’s continued residence
                        at Brockhurst. For Captain Ormiston had held true to his resolve of scorning
                        the delights of idleness, the smiles of ladies more fair and kind than wise,
                        and all those other pleasant iniquities to which idleness inclines the young
                        and full?blooded, of bidding farewell to London and Windsor, and proceeding
                        to “live laborious days” in some far country. He had offered to remain
                        indefinitely with Katherine if she needed him. But she refused. Let him be
                        faithful to the noble profession of arms and make a name for himself
                        therein.
                    “Brockhurst has ceased to be a place for a soldier,” she said. “Leave it to
                        women and priests!” And then, repenting of the bitterness of her speech, she
                        added:—“Really there is not more work than I can manage, with Julius to help
                        me at times. Iles is a good servant if a little tediously pompous, and
                        Chifney must see to the stables.”—Lady Calmady paused, and her face grew
                        hard. But for her husband’s dying request, she would have sold every horse
                        in the stud, razed the great square of
                        buildings to the ground and made the site of it a dunghill.—“Work is a drug
                        to deaden thought. So it is a kindness to let me have plenty of it, dear old
                        man. And I fear, even when the labour of each day is done, and Dickie is
                        safe asleep,—poor darling,—I shall still have more than enough of time for
                        thought, for asking those questions to which there seems no answer, and for
                        desires, vain as they are persistent, that things were somehow, anyhow,
                        other than they are!”
                    Therefore it came about that a singular quiet settled down on Brockhurst—a
                        quiet of waiting, of pause, rather than of accomplishment. But Julius March,
                        for reasons aforesaid, and Mademoiselle de Mirancourt, in virtue of her
                        unclouded faith in the teachings of her Church,—which assures its members of
                        the beneficent purpose working behind all the sad seeming of this
                        world,—alike rejoiced in that. A change of occupations and of interests came
                        naturally with the change of the seasons, with the time to sow and reap, to
                        plant saplings, to fell timber, to fence, to cut copsing, to build or
                        rebuild, to receive rents or remit them, to listen to many appeals, to
                        readjust differences, to feed game or to shoot it, to bestow charity of meat
                        and fuel, to haul ice in winter to the ice?house from the lake. But beyond
                        all this there was little of going or coming at Brockhurst. The magnates of
                        the countryside called at decent intervals, and at decent intervals Lady
                        Calmady returned their civilities. But having ceased to entertain, she
                        refused to receive entertainment. She shut herself away in somewhat jealous
                        seclusion, defiant of possibly curious glances and pitying tongues. Before
                        long her neighbours, therefore, came to raise their eyebrows a little in
                        speaking of her, and to utter discreet regrets that Lady Calmady, though
                        handsome and charming when you met her, was so very eccentric, adding:—“Of
                        course everyone knows there is something very uncomfortable about the little
                        boy!” Then would follow confidences as to the disastrous results of popish
                        influences and Romanising tendencies, and an openly expressed
                        conviction—more especially on the part of ladies blessed with daughters of
                        marriageable age—that it would have been so very much better for many people
                        if the late Sir Richard Calmady had looked nearer home for a bride.
                    But these comments did not affect Katherine. In point of fact they rarely
                        reached her ears. Alone among her neighbours, Mary Cathcart, of the crisp,
                        black hair and gipsy?like complexion, was still admitted to some intimacy of
                        intercourse. And the girl was far too loyal either to bring in gossip or to
                        carry it out. Brockhurst held the romance of her heart. And,
                            notwithstand? ing the earnest wooing—as
                        the years went on—of more than one very eligible gentleman, Brockhurst
                        continued to hold it.
                    Meanwhile the somewhat quaint fixed star around which this whole system of
                        planets, large and small, very really revolved, shone forth upon them all
                        with a cheerful enough light. For Dickie by no means belied the promise of
                        his babyhood. He was a beautiful and healthy little boy, with a charming
                        brilliance of colouring, warm and solid in tone. He had his mother’s
                        changeful eyes, though the blue of them was brighter than hers had now come
                        to be. He had her dark eyebrows and eyelashes too, and her finely curved
                        lips. While he bore likeness to his father in the straight, square?tipped
                        nose and the close?fitting cap of bright, brown hair with golden stains in
                        it, growing low in short curling locks on the broad forehead and the nape of
                        the neck—expressing the shape of the head very definitely, and giving it
                        something of antique nobility and grace.
                    And the little lad’s appearance afforded, in these pleasant early days at all
                        events, fair index to his temperament. He was gay?natured, affectionate,
                        intelligent, full of a lively yet courteous curiosity, easily moved to
                        laughter, almost inconveniently fearless and experimental; while his
                        occasional thunderbursts of passion cleared off quickly into sunshine and
                        blue sky again. For as yet the burden of deformity rested upon him very
                        lightly. He associated hardly at all with other children, and so had but
                        scant occasion to measure his poor powers of locomotion against their normal
                        ones. Lady Fallowfeild it is true, in obedience to suggestions on the part
                        of her kindly lord and master, offered tentatively to import a
                        carriage?load—little Ludovic Quayle was just the same age as Dickie—from the
                        Whitney nurseries to spend the day at Brockhurst.
                    “Good fellow, Calmady. I liked Calmady,” Lord Fallowfeild had said to her.
                        His conversation, it may be observed, was nothing if not
                        interjectional.—“Pretty woman, Lady Calmady—terrible thing for her being
                        left as she is. Always shall regret Calmady. Very sorry for her. Always have
                        been sorry for a pretty woman in trouble. Ought to see something of her, my
                        dear. The two estates join, and, as I always have said, it’s a duty to
                        support your own class. Can’t expect the masses to respect you unless you
                        show them you’re prepared to stand by your own class. Just take some of the
                        children over to see Lady Calmady. Pretty children, do her good to see them.
                        Rode uncommonly straight did Calmady. Terribly upsetting thing his funeral.
                        Never shall forget it. Always did like Calmady—good fellow, Calmady. Nasty
                        thing his death.”
                    
                    But Katherine’s pen was fertile in excuses to avoid the invasion from
                        Whitney. Lady Fallowfeild’s small brains and large domestic complacency were
                        too trying to her. And that noble lady, it must be owned, was secretly not a
                        little glad to have her advances thus firmly, though gently, repulsed. For
                        she was alarmed at Lady Calmady’s reported acquaintance with foreign lands
                        and with books; added to which her simple mind harboured much grisly though
                        vague terror concerning the Roman Church. Picture all her brood of little
                        Quayles incontinently converted into little monks and nuns with shaven
                        heads! How such sudden conversion could be accomplished Lady Fallowfeild did
                        not presume to explain. It sufficed her that “everybody always said Papists
                        were so dreadfully clever and unscrupulous you never could tell what they
                        might not do next.”
                    Once, when Dickie was about six years old, Colonel St. Quentin brought his
                        young wife and two little girls to stay at Brockhurst. Katherine had a great
                        regard for her cousin, yet the visit was never repeated. On the flat poor
                        Dick could manage fairly well, his strangely shod feet travelling
                        laboriously along in effort after rapidity; his hands hastily outstretched
                        now and again to lay hold of door?jamb or table?edge, since his balance was
                        none of the securest. But in that delightfully varied journey from the
                        nursery, by way of his mother’s bedroom, the Chapel?Room next door, the
                        broad stair?head,—with its carven balusters, shiny oak flooring, and fine
                        landscapes by Claude and Hobbema,—the state drawing?room and libraries, to
                        that America of his childish dreams, that country of magnificent distances
                        and large possibility of discovery, the Long Gallery, he was speedily
                        distanced by the three?year?old Betty, let alone her six?year?old sister
                        Honoria, a tall, slim, little maiden, daintily high?bred of face and fleet
                        of foot as a hind. This was bad enough. But the stairways afforded yet more
                        afflicting experiences. The descent of even the widest and shallowest
                        flights presented matter of insuperable difficulty, while the ascent was
                        only to be achieved by recourse to all?fours, against the ignominy of which
                        mode of progression Dickie’s soul revolted. And so the little boy concluded
                        that he did not care much about little girls. And confided to his devoted
                        play?fellow Clara—Mrs. Denny’s niece and sometime second still?room maid,
                        now promoted, on account of her many engaging qualities, to be Dickie’s
                        special attendant—that:—
                    “They went so quick, they always left him behind, and it was not nice to be
                        left behind, and it was very rude of them to do it; didn’t Clara think
                        so?”
                    
                    And Clara, as in duty and affection bound, not without additional testimony
                        in a certain dimness of her pretty, honest, brown eyes, did indeed very much
                        think so. It followed, therefore, that Dickie saw the St. Quentin family
                        drive away, nurses and luggage complete, quite unmoved. And returned, with
                        satisfaction and renewed self?confidence, to the exclusive society of all
                        those dear, grown?up people—gentle and simple—who were never guilty of
                        leaving him behind—to that of Camp, the old, white bull?dog, and young Camp,
                        his son and heir, who, if they so far forgot themselves as to run away,
                        invariably ran back again and apologised, fawning upon him and pushing their
                        broad, ugly, kindly muzzles into his hands—and to that of Monsieur Pouf, the grey Persian cat, who, far from
                        going too quickly, displayed such majestic deliberation of movement and
                        admirable dignity of waving fluffed tail, that it required much patient
                        coaxing on Dickie’s part ever to make him leave his cushion by the fire and
                        go at all.
                    But, with the above?mentioned exception, the little boy’s self?content
                        suffered but slight disturbance. He took himself very much for granted. He
                        was very curious of outside things, very much amused. Moreover, he was king
                        of a far from contemptible kingdom; and in the blessed ignorance of
                        childhood—that finds pride and honour in things which a wider and sadder
                        knowledge often proves far from glad or glorious—it appeared to him not
                        unnatural that a king should differ, even to the point of some slightly
                        impeding disabilities, from the rank and file of his obedient and devoted
                        subjects. For Dickie, happily for him, was as yet given over to that wholly
                        pleasant vanity, the aristocratic idea. The rough justice of democracy, and
                        the harsh breaking of all purely personal and individualistic dreams that
                        comes along with it, for him, was not just yet.
                    And Richard’s continued and undismayed acquiescence in his physical
                        misfortune was fostered, indirectly, by the captivating poetry of myth and
                        legend with which his mind was fed. He had an insatiable appetite for
                        stories, and Mademoiselle de Mirancourt was an untiring raconteuse. On Sunday afternoons upon the
                        terrace, when the park lay bathed in drowsy sunshine and sapphire shadows
                        haunted the under edge of the great woods, the pretty, old lady—her eyes
                        shining with gentle laughter, for Marie de Mirancourt’s faith had reached
                        the very perfect stage in which the soul dares play, even as lovers play,
                        with that it holds most sacred—would tell Dickie the fairy tales of her
                        Church. Would tell him of blessed St. Francis and of Poverty, his sweet, sad
                        bride; of his sermon to the birds dwelling
                        in the oak groves along Tiber valley; of the mystic stigmata, marking as
                        with nail?prints his hands and feet, and of that indomitable love towards
                        all creatures, which found, alike in the sun in heaven and the heavy?laden
                        ass, brothers and friends. Or she would tell him of that man of mighty
                        strength and stature, St. Christopher, who, in the stormy darkness,—yielding
                        to its reiterated entreaties,—set forth to bear the little child across the
                        wind?swept ford. How he staggered, in midstream, amazed and terrified under
                        the awful weight of that, apparently so light, burden; to learn, on
                        struggling ashore at last, that he had borne upon his shoulder no mortal
                        infant, but the whole world and the eternal maker of it, Christ Himself.
                    These and many another wonder tale of Christian miracle did she tell to
                        Dickie—he squatting on a rug beside her, resting his curly head against her
                        knees, while the pink?footed pigeons hurried hither and thither, picking up
                        the handfuls of barley he scattered on the flags, and the peacocks sunned
                        themselves with a certain worldly and disdainful grace on the hand?rails of
                        the grey balustrades, and young Camp, after some wild skirmish in search of
                        sport, flung himself down panting, his tongue lolling out of his grinning
                        jaws, by the boy’s side.
                    And Katherine, putting aside her cares as regent of Dickie’s kingdom and the
                        sorrow that lay so chill against her heart, would tell him stories too, but
                        of a different order of sentiment and of thought. For Katherine was young
                        yet, and her stories were gallant—since her own spirit was very brave—or
                        merry, because it delighted her to hear the boy laugh. And often, as he grew
                        a little older, she would sit with her arm round him, in the keen, winter
                        twilights before the lamps were lit, on the broad, cushioned bench of the
                        oriel window in the Chapel?Room. Outside, the stars grew in number and
                        brightness as the dusk deepened. Within, the firelight played over the
                        white?panelled walls, revealing fitfully the handsome faces of former
                        Calmadys—shortlived, passing hence all unsated with the desperate joys of
                        living—painted by Vandyke and Sir Peter Lely, or by Romney and Sir Joshua.
                        Then she would tell him not only of Aladdin, of Cinderella, and
                        time?honoured Puss?in?Boots, but of Merlin the great enchanter, and of King
                        Arthur and his company of noble knights. And of the loves of Sigurd the
                        Niblung and Brunhilda the wise and terrible queen, and of their lifelong
                        sorrow, and of the fateful treasure of fairy gold which lies buried beneath
                        the rushing waters of the Rhine. Or she would tell him of those cold, clear,
                        far?off times in the northern sojourning
                        places of our race—tell him of the cow Audhumla, alone in the vast plain at
                        the very beginning of things, licking the stones crusted over with hoar
                        frost and salt, till, on the third day, there sprung from them a warrior
                        named Bur, the father of Bör, the father of Odin, who is the father of all
                        the gods. She would tell him of wicked Loki too, the deceiver and cunning
                        plotter against the peace of heaven. And of his three evil children—here
                        Dickie would, for what reason he knew not, always feel his mother hold him
                        more closely, while her voice took a deeper tone—Fenrir the wolf, who, when
                        Thor sought to bind him, bit off the brave god’s right hand; and Jörmungand
                        the Midgard serpent, who, tail in mouth, circles the world; and Hela, the
                        pale queen, who reigns in Niflheim over the dim kingdoms of the dead. And of
                        Baldur the bright?shining god, joy of Asgard, slain in error by Höder his
                        blind twin?brother, for whom all things on earth—save one—weep, and will
                        weep, till in the last days he comes again. And of All?Father Odin himself,
                        plucking out his right eye and bartering it for a draught of wisdom?giving
                        water from Mirmir’s magic well. Again, she would tell him of the End—which
                        it must be owned frightened Dickie a little, so that he would stroke her
                        cheek, and say softly:— “But, mummy, you really are sure, aren’t you, it
                        won’t happen for a good while yet?”—Of Ragnarök, the Twilight of the Gods,
                        of the Fimbul winter, and cheerless sun and hurrying, blood?red moon, and
                        all the direful signs which must needs go before the last great battle
                        between good and evil.
                    And through all of these stories, of Christian and heathen origin alike,
                        Richard began dimly, almost unconsciously, to trace, recurrent as a strain
                        of austere music, the idea—very common to ages less soft and fastidious than
                        our own—of payment in self?restraint and labour, or in actual bodily pain,
                        loss, or disablement, for all good gained and knowledge won.
                    He found the same idea again when, under the teaching of Julius March, he
                        began reading history, and when his little skill in Greek and Latin carried
                        him as far as the easier passages of the classic poets. Dick was a very apt,
                        if somewhat erratic and inaccurate, scholar. His insatiable curiosity drove
                        him forward. He scurried, in childish fashion by all short?cuts available,
                        to get at the heart of the matter—a habit of mind detestable to pedants,
                        since to them the letter is the main object, not the spirit. Happily Julius
                        was ceasing to be a pedant, even in matters ecclesiastical. He loved the
                        little boy, the mingled charm and pathos of whose personality held him as
                        with a spell. With untiring patience he answered, to the best of his
                            ability, Dickie’s endless questions, of
                        how and why. And, perhaps, he learned even more than he taught, under this
                        fire of cross?examination. He had never come intimately in contact with a
                        child’s mind before; and Dickie’s daring speculations and suggestions opened
                        up very surprising vistas at times. The boy was a born adventurer, a gaily
                        audacious sceptic moreover, notwithstanding his large swallow for romance,
                        until his own morsel of reason and sense of dramatic fitness were
                        satisfied.
                    And so, having once apprehended that idea of payment, he searched for
                        justification of it instinctively in all he saw and read. He found it again
                        in the immortal story of the siege of Troy, and in the long wanderings and
                        manifold trials of that most experimental of philosophers, the great
                        Ulysses. He found it too in more modern and more authentic history—in the
                        lives of Galileo and Columbus, of Sir Walter Raleigh and many another hero
                        and heroine, of whom, because of some unusual excellence of spirit or
                        attainment, their fellow?men, and, as it would seem, the very gods
                        themselves, have grown jealous, not enduring to witness a beauty rivalling
                        or surpassing their own.
                    The idea was all confused as yet, coloured by childish fancies, instinctive
                        merely, not realised. Yet it occupied a very actual place in the little
                        boy’s mind. He lingered over it silently, caressing it, returning to it
                        again and again in half?frightened delight. It lent a fascination, somewhat
                        morbid perhaps, to all ill?favoured and unsightly creatures—to blind?worms
                        and slow?moving toads, to trapped cats, and dusty, disabled, winter flies;
                        to a winged sea?gull, property of Bushnell, one of the under?gardeners, that
                        paced, picking up loathsome living in the matter of slugs and snails, about
                        the cabbage beds, all the tragedy of its lost power of flight and of the
                        freedom of the sea in its wild, pale eyes.
                    It further provoked Dickie to expend his not inconsiderable gift of
                        draughtsmanship in the production of long processions of half?human monsters
                        of a grotesque and essentially uncomfortable character. He scribbled these
                        upon all available pieces of paper, including the fly?leaves of Todhunter’s
                        Arithmetic, and of his Latin and Greek primers. In an evil hour, for the
                        tidiness of his school books, he came across the ballad of “Aiken?Drum,”
                        with its rather terrible mixture of humour, realism, and pathos. From
                        thenceforth for some weeks—though he adroitly avoided giving any direct
                        account of the origin of these grisly, imaginative freaks—many margins were
                        adorned, or rather defaced, by fancy portraits of that “foul and stalwart
                        ghaist” the Brownie of Badnock.
                    
                    So did Dickie dwell, through all his childhood and the early years of youth,
                        in the clear land of dreams, petted, considered, sheltered with perhaps
                        almost cruel kindness, from the keen. winds of truth that blow forever
                        across the world. Which winds, while causing all to suffer, and bringing
                        death to the weak and fearful, to the lovers of lies and the makers of them,
                        go in the end to strengthen the strong who dare face them, and fortify these
                        in the acceptance of the only knowledge really worth having—namely the
                        knowledge that romance is no exclusive property of the past, or eternal life
                        of the future, but that both these are here, immediately and actually, for
                        whoso has eyes to see and courage to possess.
                    The fairest dreams are true. Yet it is so ordered that to know that we must
                        awake from them. And the awakening is an ugly process enough, too often.
                        When Dickie was about thirteen, the awakening began for him. It came in
                        time?honoured forms—those of horses and of a woman.
                
                
                    CHAPTER II
                    IN WHICH OUR HERO IMPROVES HIS ACQUAINTANCE WITH MANY
                        THINGS—HIMSELF INCLUDED
                    IT came about in this wise. Roger Ormiston was expected at
                        Brockhurst, after an absence of some years. He had served with distinction
                        in the Sikh war; and had seen fighting on the grand scale in the battles of
                        Sobraon and Chillianwallah. Later the restless genius of travel had taken
                        hold on him, leading him far eastward into China, and northward across the
                        Himalayan snows. He had dwelt among strange peoples and looked on strange
                        gods. He had hunted strange beasts, moreover, and learnt their polity and
                        their ways. He had seen the bewildering fecundity of nature in the tropic
                        jungle, and her barren and terrible beauty in the out?stretch of the naked
                        desert. And the thought of all this set Dickie’s imagination on fire. The
                        return of Roger Ormiston was, to him, as the return of the mighty Ulysses
                        himself.
                    For a change was coming over the boy. He began to weary of fable and cry out
                        for fact. He had just entered his fourteenth year. He was growing fast; and,
                        but for that dwarfing deformity, would have been unusually tall, graceful
                        and well?proportioned. But along with this increase of stature had come a
                            listless? ness and languor which
                        troubled Lady Calmady. The boy was sweet?tempered enough, had his hours,
                        indeed, of overflowing fun and high spirits. Still he was restless and tired
                        easily of each occupation in turn. He developed a disquieting relish for
                        solitude. And took to camping?out on one of the broad window?seats of the
                        Long Gallery, in company with volumes of Captain Cook’s and Hakluyt’s
                        voyages, old?time histories of sport and natural history; not to mention
                        Robinson Crusoe and the merry if but doubtfully decent pages of Geoffrey
                        Gambado. And his mother noted, not without a sinking of the heart, that the
                        window?seat which in his solitary moods Dickie most frequented was precisely
                        that one of the eastern bay which commanded—beyond the smooth, green expanse
                        and red walls of the troco?ground—a good view of the grass ride, running
                        parallel with the lime avenue, along which the horses from the
                        racing?stables were taken out and back, morning and evening, to the
                        galloping ground. Then fears began to assail Katherine that the boy’s
                        childhood, the content and repose of it, were nearly past. Small wonder that
                        her heart should sink!
                    On the day of her brother’s return, Katherine, after rather anxious search,
                        so found Richard. He was standing on the book?strewn window?seat. He had
                        pushed open the tall narrow casement and leaned out. The April afternoon was
                        fitfully bright. A rainbow spanned the landscape, from the Long Water in the
                        valley to the edge of the forest crowning the tableland. Here and there
                        showers of rain fell, showing white against huge masses of purple cloud
                        piled up along the horizon.
                    And as Katherine drew near, threading her way carefully between the Chinese
                        cabinets, oriental jars, and many quaint treasures furnishing the end of the
                        great room, she saw that, along the grass ride, some twenty racehorses came
                        streelling homeward in single file—a long line of brown, chestnut, black,
                        and of the raw yellows and scarlets of horse?clothing, against the delicate
                        green of springing turf and opening leaves. Beside them, clad in
                        pepper?and?salt mixture breeches and gaiters complete, Mr. Chifney pricked
                        forward soberly on his handsome grey cob. The boys called to one another now
                        and then, admonished a fretful horse breaking away from the string. One of
                        them whistled shrilly a few bars of that popular but undistinguished
                        tune—“Pop goes the weasel.” And Richard craned far out, steadying himself
                        against the stone mullion on either side with uplifted hands, heedless alike
                        of his mother’s presence and of the heavy drops of rain which splattered in
                        at the open casement.
                    
                    “Dickie, Dickie,” Katherine called, in swift anxiety. “Be careful. You will
                        fall.”
                    She came close, putting her arm round him.—“You reckless darling,” she went
                        on; “don’t you see how dangerous the least slip would be?”
                    The boy stood upright and looked round at her. His blue eyes were alight. All
                        the fitful brightness, all the wistful charm, of the April evening was in
                        his face.
                    “But it’s the only place where I can see them, and they’re such beauties,” he
                        said. “And I want to see them so much. You know we always miss them somehow,
                        mummy, when we go out.”
                    Katherine was off her guard. Three separate strains of feeling influenced her
                        just then. First, her growing recognition of the change in Richard, of that
                        passing away of childhood which could not but make for difficulty and, in a
                        sense, for pain. Secondly, the natural excitement of her brother’s
                        home?coming, disturbing the monotony of her daily life, bringing, along with
                        very actual joy, memories of a past, well?beloved yet gone beyond recall.
                        Lastly, the practical and immediate fear that Dickie had come uncommonly
                        near tumbling incontinently out of the window. And so, being moved, she held
                        the boy tightly and answered rather at random, thereby provoking fate.
                    “Yes, my dearest, I know we always miss them somehow when we go out. It is
                        best so. But do pray be more careful with these high windows.”
                    “Oh! I’m all right—I’m careful enough.”—His glance had gone back to where the
                        last of the horses passed out of sight behind the red wall of the gardens.
                        “But why is it best so? Ah! they’re gone!” he exclaimed.
                    Katherine sat down on the window?seat, and Richard, clinging to the
                        window?ledge, while she still held him, lowered himself into a sitting
                        position beside her.
                    “Thank you, mummy,” he said. And the words cut her. They came so often in
                        each day, and always with the same little touch of civil dignity. The
                        courtesy of Richard’s recognition of help given, failed to comfort her for
                        the fact that help was so constantly required. Lady Calmady’s sense of
                        rebellion arose and waxed strong whenever she heard those thanks.
                    “Mother,” he went on, “I want to ask you something. You won’t mind?”
                    “Do I ever mind you questioning me?” Yet she felt a certain tightening about
                        her heart.
                    “Ah, but this is different! I’ve wanted to for a long while, but I did not know if I ought—and yet I did not
                        quite like to ask Auntie Marie or Julius. And, of course, one doesn’t speak
                        to the servants about anything of that sort.”
                    Richard’s curly head went up with a fine, little air of pride as he said the
                        last few words. His mother smiled at him. There was no doubt as to her son’s
                        breeding.
                    “Well, what then?” she said.
                    “I want to know—you’re sure you don’t mind—why you dislike the horses, and
                        never go to the stables or take me there? If the horses are wrong, why do we
                        keep them? And if they’re not wrong, why, mother, don’t you see, we may
                        enjoy them, mayn’t we?”
                    He flushed, looking up at her, spoke coaxingly, merrily, a trifle embarrassed
                        by his own temerity, yet keen to prove his point and acquire possession of
                        this so coveted joy.
                    Katherine hesitated. She was tempted to put aside his question with some
                        playful excuse. And yet, where was the use? The question must inevitably be
                        answered one day, and Katherine, as had been said, was moved just now,
                        dumbness of long habit somewhat melted. Perhaps this was the appointed time.
                        She drew her arm from around the boy and took both his hands in hers.
                    “My dearest,” she said, “our keeping the horses is not wrong. But—one of the
                        horses killed your father.”
                    Richard’s lips parted. His eyes searched hers.
                    “But how?” he asked presently.
                    “He was trying it at a fence, and it came down with him—and trampled
                        him.”
                    There was a pause. At last the boy asked rather breathlessly:—“Was he killed
                        then, mother, at once?”
                    It had been Katherine’s intention to state the facts simply, gravely, and
                        without emotion. But to speak of these things, after so long silence, proved
                        more trying than she had anticipated. The scene in the red drawing?room, the
                        long agony of waiting and of farewell, rose up before her after all these
                        years with a vividness and poignancy that refused to be gainsaid.
                    “No,” she answered, “he lived four days. He spoke to me of many things he
                        wished to do. And—I have done them all, I think. He spoke to me of
                        you”—Katherine closed her eyes. “The boy might care for the stables. The boy
                        must ride straight.” For the moment she could not look at Richard, knowing
                        that which she must see. The irony of those remembered words appeared too
                        great.—“But he suffered,” she went on brokenly, “he suffered—ah! my
                        dear”—
                    
                    “Mummy, darling mummy, don’t look like that!” Dickie cried. He wrenched his
                        hands from her grasp and threw his arms impulsively about her neck.
                        “Don’t—it hurts me. And —and, after all,” he added, reasoningly,
                        consolingly, “it wasn’t one of these horses you know. They’ve never done
                        anybody any harm. It was an accident. There must always be accidents
                        sometimes, mustn’t there? And then, you see, it all happened long, long ago.
                        It must have, for I don’t remember anything about it. It must have happened
                        when I was a baby.”
                    “Alas, no!” Katherine exclaimed, wrung by the pathos of his innocent egoism;
                        “it happened even before then, my dearest, before you were born.”
                    With the unconscious arrogance of childhood, Richard had, so far, taken his
                        mother’s devotion very much as a matter of course. He had never doubted that
                        he was, and always had been, the inevitable centre of all her interests. So,
                        now, her words and her bearing, bringing—in as far as he grasped them—the
                        revelation of aspects of her life quite independent of his all?important,
                        little self, staggered him. For the first time poor Dickie realised that
                        even one’s own mother, be she never so devoted, is not her child’s exclusive
                        and wholly private property, but has a separate existence, joys and sorrows
                        apart. Instinctively he took his arms from about her neck and backed away
                        into the angle of the window?seat, regarding her with serious and somewhat
                        startled attention. And, doing so, he for the first time realised
                        consciously something more, namely the greatness of her beauty.
                    For the years had dealt kindly with Katherine Calmady. Not the great sorrows
                        of life, or its great sacrifices, but fretfulness, ignoble worries, sordid
                        cares, are that which draw lines upon a woman’s face and harshen her
                        features. At six and thirty Lady Calmady’s skin was smooth and delicate, her
                        colour still clear and softly bright. Her hair, though somewhat darker than
                        of old, was abundant. Still she wore it rolled up and back from her
                        forehead, showing the perfect oval of her face. Her eyes, too, were darker;
                        and the expression of them had become profound—the eyes of one who has
                        looked on things which may not be told and has chosen her part. Her bosom
                        had become a little fuller; but the long, inward curve of her figure below
                        it to the round and shapely waist, and the poise of her rather small hips,
                        were lithe and free as ever. While there was that enchanting freshness about
                        her which is more than the mere freshness of youth or of physical
                        health—which would seem, indeed, to be the peculiar dowry of those women
                        who, having once known love in all its
                        completeness and its strength, of choice live ever afterwards in perfect
                        chastity of act and thought.
                    And a perception not only of the grace of her person, as she sat sideways on
                        the window?seat in her close?fitting, grey gown, with its frilled lace
                        collar and ruffles at the wrists, came to Richard now. He perceived
                        something of this more intimate and subtle charm which belonged to her. He
                        was enthralled by the clear sweetness, as of dewy grass newly turned by the
                        scythe, which always clung about her, and by the whispering of her silken
                        garments when she moved. A sudden reverence for her came upon him, as
                        though, behind her gracious and so familiar figure, he apprehended that
                        which belonged to a region superior, almost divine. And then he was
                        seized—it is too often the fate of worshippers—with jealousy of that past of
                        hers of which he had been, until now, ignorant. And yet another emotion
                        shook him, for, in thus realising and differentiating her personality, he
                        had grown vividly, almost painfully, conscious of his own.
                    He turned away, laying his cheek against the stone window?ledge, while the
                        drops of a passing scud of rain beat in on his hot face.
                    “Then—then my father never saw me,” he exclaimed vehemently. And, after a
                        moment’s pause, added:—“I am glad of that—very glad.”
                    “Ah! But, my dearest,” Lady Calmady cried, bewildered and aghast, “you don’t
                        know what you are saying—think!”
                    Richard kept his face to the splashing rain.
                    “I don’t want to say anything wrong; but,” he repeated, “I am glad.”
                    He turned to her, his lips quivering a little, and a desolate expression in
                        his eyes, which told Katherine, with only too bitter assurance, that his
                        childhood and the repose of it were indeed over and gone.
                    She held out her arms to him in silent invitation, and drew the dear curly
                        head on to her bosom.
                    “You’re not displeased with me, mummy?”
                    “Does this seem as if I was displeased?” she asked.
                    Then they sat silent once more, Katherine swaying a little as she held him,
                        soothing him almost as in his baby days.
                    “I won’t lean out of the window again,” he said presently, with a sigh of
                        comfort. “I promise that.”
                    “There’s a darling. But I am afraid we must go. Uncle Roger will be here
                        soon.”
                    
                    The boy raised his head.
                    “Mother,” he said quickly, “will you send Clara, please, to put away these
                        books? And may I have Winter to fetch me? I—I’m tired. If you don’t mind? I
                        don’t care to walk.”
                    Yet, since happily at thirteen Richard’s moods were still as many and
                        changeful as the aspects of that same April day, he enjoyed some royally
                        unclouded hours before he—most unwillingly—retired to bed that night. For,
                        on close acquaintance, the great Ulysses proved a very satisfactory hero.
                        Roger Ormiston’s character had consolidated. It was to some purpose that he
                        had put away the pleasant follies of his youth. He looked out now with a
                        coolness and patience, born of wide experience, upon men and upon affairs.
                        He had ceased to lose either his temper or his head. Acquiescing with
                        undismayed and cheerful common sense in the fact that life, as we know it,
                        is but a sorry business, and that rough things must of necessity be done and
                        suffered every day, he had developed an active—though far from morbidly
                        sentimental—compassion for the individual, man and beast alike. Not that
                        Colonel Ormiston formulated all that, still less held forth upon it. He was
                        content, as is so many another Englishman, to be a dumb and practical
                        philosopher—for which those who have lived with philosophers of the eloquent
                        sort will unquestionably give thanks, knowing, to their sorrow, how often
                        handsome speech is but a cloak to hide incapacity of honest doing.
                    And so, after dinner, under plea of an imperative need of cigars, Ormiston
                        had borne Dickie off to the Gun?Room; and there, in the intervals of
                        questioning him a little about his tastes and occupations, had told him
                        stories many and great. For he wanted to get hold of the boy and judge of
                        what stuff he was made. Like all sound and healthy?minded men he had an
                        inherent suspicion of the abnormal. He could not but fear that persons
                        unusually constituted in body must be the victims of some corresponding
                        crookedness of spirit. But as the evening drew on he became easy on this
                        point. Whatever Richard’s physical infirmity, his nature was wholesome
                        enough. Therefore when, at close upon ten o’clock, Lady Calmady arrived in
                        person to insist that Dickie must go, there and then, straight to bed, she
                        found a pleasant scene awaiting her.
                    The square room was gay with lamplight and firelight, which brought into
                        strong relief the pictures of famous horses and trophies of old?time
                        weapons—matchlocks, basket?handled swords, and neat, silver?hilted rapiers,
                        prettiest of toys with which to pink your man—that decorated its
                        white?panelled walls.
                    
                    Ormiston stood with his back to the fire, one heel on the fender, his broad
                        shoulders resting against the high chimney?piece, his head bent forward as
                        he looked down, in steady yet kindly scrutiny, at the boy. His face was
                        tanned by the sun and wind of the long sea voyage—people still came home
                        from India by the Cape—till his hair and moustache showed pale against his
                        bronzed skin. And to Richard, listening and watching from the deep arm?chair
                        drawn up at right angles to the hearth, he appeared as a veritable demigod,
                        master of the secrets of life and death—beheld, moreover, through an
                        atmosphere of fragrant tobacco?smoke, curiously intoxicating to unaccustomed
                        nostrils. Dickie had tucked himself into as small a space as possible, to
                        make room for young Camp, who lay outstretched beside him. The bull?dog’s
                        great underhung jaw and pendulous, wrinkled cheeks rested on the arm of the
                        chair, as he stared and blinked rather sullenly at the fire—moved and choked
                        a little, slipping off unwillingly to sleep, to wake with a start, and stare
                        and blink once more. The embroidered couvre?pieds, which Dickie had spread across him gathering
                        the top edge of it up under the front of his Eton jacket, offered luxurious
                        bedding. But Camp was a typical conservative, slow?witted, stubborn against
                        the ingress of a new idea. This tall, somewhat masterful stranger must prove
                        himself a good man and true—according to bull?dog understanding of those
                        terms—before he could hope to gain entrance to that faithful, though narrow
                        heart.
                    Ormiston meanwhile, finely contemptuous of canine criticism, greeted his
                        sister cheerily.
                    “You’re bound to give us a little law to?night, Kitty,” he said, holding out
                        his hand to her. “We won’t break rules and indulge in unbridled license as
                        to late hours again, will we, Dick? But, you see, we’ve both been doing a
                        good deal, one way and another, since we last met, and there were arrears of
                        conversation to make up.”—He smiled very charmingly at Lady Calmady, and his
                        fingers closed firmly on her hand.—“We’ve been getting on famously,
                        notwithstanding our long separation.” He looked down at Richard again.—“Fast
                        friends, already, and mean to remain so, don’t we, old chap?”
                    Thereupon Lady Calmady’s soul received much comfort. Her pride was always on
                        the alert, fiercely sensitive concerning Richard. And the joy of this
                        meeting had, till now, an edge of jealous anxiety to it. If Roger did not
                        take to the boy, then—deeply though she loved him—Roger must go. For the
                        same elements were constant in Katherine Calmady. Not all the discipline of thirteen years had tamed the hot
                        blood in her which made her order out the Clown for execution. But as
                        Ormiston spoke, her face softened, her eyes grew luminous and smiled back at
                        him with an exquisite gladness. The soft gloom of her black, velvet dress
                        emphasised the warm, golden whiteness of her bare shoulders and arms.
                        Ormiston seeing her just then, understanding something of the drama of her
                        thought, was moved from his habitual cool indifference of bearing.
                    “Katherine,” he said, “do you know you take one rather by surprise? Upon my
                        word you’re more beautiful than ever.”
                    And Richard’s clear voice rang out eagerly from the depths of the big
                        chair:—
                    “Yes—yes—isn’t she, Uncle Roger—isn’t she—delicious?”
                    The man’s smile broadened almost to laughter.
                    “You young monkey,” he said very gently; “so you have discovered that fact
                        already have you? Well, so much the better. It’s a safe basis to start from;
                        don’t you think so, Kitty?”
                    But Lady Calmady drew away her hand. The blood had rushed into her face and
                        neck. Her beauty, now for so long, had seemed a negligible quantity, a thing
                        that had out?lasted its need and use—since he who had so rejoiced in it was
                        dead. What is the value of ever so royal a crown when the throne it
                        represents has fallen to ruin? And yet, being very much a woman, those words
                        of praise came altogether sweetly to Katherine from the lips of her brother
                        and her son. She moved away, embarrassed, not quite mistress of herself, sat
                        down on the arm of Richard’s chair, leaned across him and patted the
                        bull?dog—who raised his heavy head with a grunt, and slapped Dickie smartly
                        in the stomach with his tail, by way of welcome.
                    “You dear foolish creatures,” she said, “pray talk of something more
                        profitable. I am growing old, and, in some ways, I am rather thankful for
                        it. All the same, Dickie, darling, you positively must and shall go to
                        bed.”
                    But Colonel Ormiston interrupted her. He spoke with a trace of hesitation,
                        turning to the fireplace and flicking the ash off the end of his cigar.
                    “By the bye, Katherine, how’s Mary Cathcart? Have you seen her lately?”
                    “Yes, last week.”
                    “Then she’s not gone the way of all flesh and married?”
                    “No,” Lady Calmady answered. She bent a little lower, tracing out the lines
                        on the dog’s wrinkled forehead with her finger.—“Several men have asked her
                        to marry. But there is only one man in the
                        world, I fancy, whom Mary would ever care to marry—poor Camp, did I tickle
                        you?—and he, I believe, has not asked her yet.”
                    “Ah! there,” Ormiston exclaimed quickly, “you are mistaken.”
                    “Am I?” Katherine said. “I have great faith in Mary. I suppose she was too
                        wise to accept even him, being not wholly convinced of his love.”
                    Lady Calmady raised her eyes. Ormiston looked very keenly at her. And
                        Richard, watching them, felt his breath come rather short with excitement,
                        for he understood that his mother was speaking in riddles. He observed,
                        moreover, that Colonel Ormiston’s face had grown pale for all its
                        sunburn.
                    “And so,” Katherine went on, “I think the man in question had better be quite
                        sure of his own heart before he offers it to Mary Cathcart again.”
                    Ormiston flung his half?smoked cigar into the fire. He came and stood in
                        front of Richard.
                    “Look here, old chap,” he said, “what do you say to our driving over to
                        Newlands to?morrow? You can set me right if I’ve forgotten any of the turns
                        in the road, you know. And you and Miss Cathcart are great chums, aren’t
                        you?”
                    “Mother, may I go?” the boy asked.
                    Lady Calmady kissed his forehead.
                    “Yes, my dearest,” she said. “I will trust you and Uncle Roger to take care
                        of each other for once. You may go.”
                    The immediate consequence of all which was, that Richard went to bed that
                        night with a brain rather dangerously active and eyes rather dangerously
                        bright. So that when sleep at last visited him, it came burdened with
                        dreams, in which the many impressions and emotions of the day took
                        altogether too lively a part, causing him to turn restlessly to and fro, and
                        throw his arms out wide over the cool, linen sheets and pillow.
                    For there was a new element in Dickie’s dreams to?night?namely a recurrent
                        distress of helplessness and incapacity of movement, and therefore of
                        escape, in the presence of some on?coming, multitudinous terror. He was
                        haunted, moreover, by a certain stanza of the ballad of Chevy Chase. It had
                        given him a peculiar feeling, sickening yet fascinating, ever since he could
                        remember first to have read it, a feeling which caused him to dread reading
                        it beforehand, yet made him turn back to it again and again. And, to?night,
                        sometimes Richard was himself, sometimes his personality seemed merged in
                        that of Witherington, the crippled fighting?man, of whose maiming, and
                        deadly courage, that stanza tells. And the
                        battle was long and fierce, as, from out a background of steeple?shaped,
                        honey?combed rocks and sparse trees with large, golden leaves—like those on
                        the panels of the great, lacquered cabinets in the Long Gallery—innumerable
                        hordes of fanatic Chinamen poured down on him, a hideous bedizenment of
                        vermilion war?devils painted on their blue tunics and banners and shields.
                        And he, Richard,—or was it he, Witherington?—alone facing them all,—they
                        countless in number, always changing yet always the same. From under their
                        hard, upturned hats, a peacock feather erect in each, the cruel,
                        oblique?eyed, impassive faces stared at him. They pressed him back and back
                        against the base of a seven?storied pagoda, the wind?bells of which jangled
                        far above him from the angles of its tiers of fluted roofs. And the sky was
                        black and polished. Yet it was broad, glaring daylight, every object
                        fearfully distinct. And he was fixed there, unable to get away because—yes,
                        of course, he was Witherington, so there was no need of further explanation
                        of that inability of escape.
                    And still, at the same time, he could see Chifney on the handsome, grey cob,
                        trotting soberly along the green ride, beside the long string of racehorses
                        coming home from exercise. The young leaves were fragile and green now, not
                        sparse and metallic, and the April rain splashed in his face. He tried to
                        call out to Tom Chifney, but the words died in his throat.—If they would
                        only put him on one of those horses! He knew he could ride, and so be safe
                        and free. He called again. That time his voice came. They must hear. Were
                        they not his own servants, after all, and his own horses—or would be soon,
                        when he was grown up? But neither the trainer, nor the boys so much as
                        turned their heads; and the living ribbon of brown and chestnut swept on and
                        away out of sight. No one would heed him! No one would hearken to his
                        cry!
                    Once his mother and some man, whom he knew yet did not know, passed by him
                        hand in hand. She wore a white dress, and smiled with a look of ineffable
                        content. Her companion was tall, gracious in bearing and movement, but
                        unsubstantial, a luminous shadow merely. Richard could not see his face. Yet
                        he knew the man was of near kin to him. And to them he tried to speak. But
                        it was useless. For now he was not Richard any more. He was not even
                        Witherington, the crippled fighting?man of the Chevy Chase ballad. He was—he
                        was the winged seagull, with wild, pale eyes, hiding—abject yet fierce—among
                        the vegetable beds in the Brockhurst kitchen?gardens, and picking up
                        loathsome provender of snails and slugs. Roger Ormiston, calm, able, kindly, yet just a trifle insolent,
                        cigar in mouth, sauntered up and looked at the bird, and it crawled away
                        among the cabbages ignominiously, covered with the shame of its
                        incompleteness and its fallen estate.
                    And then from out the honey?combed rocks, under the black, polished sky, the
                        blue?tunicked Chinamen swept down on Richard again with the maddening horror
                        of infinite number. They crushed in upon him, nearer and nearer, pressing
                        him back against the wall of that evil pagoda. The air was hot and musky
                        with their breath and thick with the muffled roar of their countless
                        footsteps. And they came right in on him, trampling him down, suffocating,
                        choking him with the heat of them and the dead weight.
                    Shouting aloud—as it seemed to him—in angry terror, the boy woke. He sat up
                        trembling, wet with perspiration, bewildered by the struggle and the wild
                        phantasmagoria of his dream. He pulled open the neck of his night?shirt,
                        leaned his head against the cool, brass rail of the back of the bedstead,
                        while he listened with growing relief to the rumble of the wind in the
                        chimney, and the swish of the rain against the casements, and watched the
                        narrow line of light under the door of his mother’s room.
                    Yes, he was Richard Calmady, after all,—here in his own sheltered world,
                        among those who had loved and served him all his life. Nothing hurtful could
                        reach him here, nothing of which he need be afraid. There was no real
                        meaning in that ugly dream.
                    And then Dickie paused a moment, still sitting up in the warm darkness,
                        pressing his hands down on the mattress on either side to keep himself from
                        slipping. For involuntarily he recalled the feeling which had prompted his
                        declaration that he was glad his father had never seen him; recalled his
                        unwillingness to walk, lest he should meet Ormiston unexpectedly; recalled
                        the instinct which, even during that glorious time in the Gun?Room, had
                        impelled him to keep the embroidered couvre?pieds carefully over his legs and feet. And, recalling
                        these things, poor Dickie arrived at conclusions regarding himself which he
                        had happily avoided arriving at before. For they were harsh conclusions,
                        causing him to cower down in the bed, and bury his face in the pillows to
                        stifle the sound of the tearing sobs which would come.
                    Alas! was there not only too real a meaning in that same ugly dream and that
                        shifting of personality? He understood, while his body quivered with the
                        anguish of it, that he had more in common
                        with, and was nearer—far nearer—to the maimed fighting?man of the old
                        ballad, even to the poor sea?gull robbed of its power of flight, than to all
                        those dear people whose business in life it seemed to pet and amuse him, and
                        to minister to his every want—to the handsome soldier uncle, whose
                        home?coming had so excited him, to Julius March, his indulgent tutor, to
                        Mademoiselle de Mirancourt, his delightful companion, to Clara, his obedient
                        playfellow, to brown?eyed Mary Cathcart, and even to his lovely mother
                        herself!
                    Thus did the bitter winds of truth, which blow forever across the world,
                        first touch Richard Calmady, cutting his poor boyish pride as with a whip.
                        But he was very young. And the young, mercifully, know no such word as the
                        inevitable; so that the wind of truth is ever tempered for them—the first
                        smart of it over—by the sunshine of ignorant and unlimited hope.
                
                
                    CHAPTER III
                    CONCERNING THAT WHICH, THANK GOD, HAPPENS ALMOST EVERY
                        DAY
                    THE merry, spring sky was clear, save in the south where a vast
                        perspective of dappled cloud lay against it, leaving winding rivers of blue
                        here and there, as does ribbed sand for the incoming tide. As the white gate
                        of the inner park—the grey, unpainted palings ranging far away to right and
                        left—swung to behind them, and Henry, the groom, after a smart run,
                        clambered up into his place again beside Camp on the back seat of the double
                        dog?cart, Richard’s spirits rose. Ahead stretched out the long vista of that
                        peculiar glory of Brockhurst, its avenue of Scotch firs. The trunks of them,
                        rough?barked and purple below, red, smooth, and glistering above, shot up
                        some thirty odd feet—straight as the pillars of an ancient temple—before the
                        branches, sweeping outward and downward, met, making a whispering, living
                        canopy overhead, through which the sunshine fell in tremulous shafts upon
                        the shining coats and gleaming harness of the horses, upon Ormiston’s
                        clear?cut, bronzed face and upright figure, and upon the even, straw?colored
                        gravel of the road. The said road is raised by about three feet above the
                        level of the land on either side. On the left, the self?sown firs grow in
                        close ranks. The ground below them is bare but for tussocks of coarse grass
                        and ruddy beds of fallen fir needles. On
                        the right, the fir wood is broken by coppices of silver?stemmed birches, and
                        spaces of heather—which shows a purple?brown against the grey of the
                        reindeer moss out of which it springs. Tits swung and frolicked among the
                        tree?tops, and a jay flew off noisily with a flash of azure wing?coverts and
                        volley of harsh, discordant cries.
                    The rapid movement, the moist, pungent odour of the woodland, the rhythmical
                        trot of the horses, the rattle of the splinter?bar chains as the traces
                        slackened going downhill, above all the presence of the man beside him, were
                        pleasantly stimulating to Richard Calmady. The boy was still a prey to much
                        innocent enthusiasm. It appeared to him, watching Ormiston’s handling of the
                        reins and whip, there was nothing this man could not do, and do skilfully,
                        yet all with the same easy unconcern. Indeed the present position was so
                        agreeable to him that Dickie’s spirits would have risen to an unusual
                        height, but for a certain chastening of the flesh in the shape of the
                        occasional pressure of a broad strap against his middle, which brought him
                        unwelcome remembrance of recent discoveries it was his earnest desire to
                        ignore, still better to forget.
                    For just at starting there had been a rather bad moment. Winter, having
                        settled him on the seat of the dog?cart, was preparing to tuck him in with
                        many rugs, when Ormiston said:—
                    “Look here, dear old chap, I’ve been thinking about this, and upon my word
                        you don’t seem to me very safe. You see this is a different matter to your
                        donkey?chair, or the pony?carriage. There’s no protection at the side, and
                        if the horses shied or anything—well, you’d be in the road. And I can’t
                        afford to spill you the first time we go out together, or there’d be a
                        speedy end of all our fun.”
                    Richard tried to emulate his uncle’s cool indifference, and take the broad
                        strap as a matter of course. But he was glad the tongue of the buckle
                        slipped so directly into place; and that Henry’s attention was engaged with
                        the near horse, which fretted at standing; and that Leonard, the footman,
                        was busy making Camp jump up at the back; and that his mother, who had been
                        watching him from the lowest of the wide steps, turned away and went up to
                        the flight to join Julius March standing under the grey arcade. As the
                        horses sprang forward, clattering the little pebbles of the drive against
                        the body of the carriage, and swung away round the angle of the house,
                        Katherine came swiftly down the steps again smiling, kissing her hand to
                        him. Still, the strap hurt—not poor Dickie’s somewhat ill?balanced body, to
                        which in truth it lent an agreeable sense of security, but his, just then, all too sensitive mind. So that,
                        notwithstanding a fine assumption of gaiety, as he kissed his hand in
                        return, he found the dear vision of his mother somewhat blurred by foolish
                        tears which he had resolutely to wink away.
                    But now that disquieting incident was left nearly ten minutes behind. The
                        last park gate and its cluster of mellow?tinted, thatched cottages was past.
                        Not only out?of?doors and all the natural exhilaration of it, but the
                        spectacle of the world beyond the precincts of the park—into which world he,
                        in point of fact, so rarely penetrated—wooed him to interest and enjoyment.
                        To Dickie, whose life through his mother’s jealous tenderness and his own
                        physical infirmity had been so singularly circumscribed, there was an
                        element, slightly pathetic, of discovery and adventure in this ordinary,
                        afternoon drive.
                    He did not want to talk. He was too busy simply seeing—everything food for
                        those young eyes and brain so greedy of incident and of beauty. He sat
                        upright and stared at the passing show.—At the deep lane, its banks starred
                        with primroses growing in the hollows of the gnarled roots of oaks and ash
                        trees. At Sandyfield rectory, deep?roofed, bow?windowed, the red walls and
                        tiles of it half smothered in ivy and cotoneaster. At the low,
                        squat?towered, Georgian church, standing in its acre of close?packed
                        graveyard, which is shadowed by yew trees and by the clump of three enormous
                        Scotch firs in the rectory garden adjoining. At the Church Farm, just
                        beyond—a square white house, the slated roofs of it running up steeply to a
                        central block of chimneys, it having, in consequence, somewhat the effect of
                        a monster extinguisher. At the rows of pale, wheat stacks, raised on granite
                        staddles; at the prosperous barns, yards, and stables, built of wood on
                        brick foundations, that surround it, presenting a mass of rich, solid colour
                        and of noisy, crowded, animal life. At the fields, plough and pasture,
                        marked out by long lines of hedgerow trees, broken by coppices—these dashed
                        with tenderest green—stretching up and back to the dark, purple?blue range
                        of the moorland. At scattered cottages, over the gates of whose gardens gay
                        with daffodils and polyanthus, groups of little girls and babies, in
                        flopping sun?bonnets and scanty lilac pinafores, stared back at the passing
                        carriage, and then bobbed the accustomed curtsey. In the said groups were no
                        boys, save of infant years. The boys were away shepherding, or to plough, or
                        bird?minding. For as yet education was free indeed—in the sense that you
                        were free to take it, or leave it, as suited your pocket and your fancy.
                    
                    Richard stared too at the pleasant, furze?dotted commons, spinning away to
                        right and left as the horses trotted sharply onward—commons whereon
                        meditative donkeys endured rather than enjoyed existence, after the manner
                        of their kind; and prodigiously large families of yellow?grey goslings
                        streeled after the flocks of white geese, across spaces of fresh sprung
                        grass around shallow ponds, in which the blue and dapple of the sky were
                        reflected. He stared at Sandyfield village too—a straight street of detached
                        houses, very diverse in colour and in shape, standing back, for the most
                        part, amid small orchards and gardens that slope gently up from the brook,
                        which last, backed, here by a row of fine elms, there by one of Lombardy
                        poplars, borders the road. Three or four shops, modest in size as they are
                        ambitious in the variety of objects offered for sale in them, advance their
                        windows boldly. So does the yellow?washed inn, the Calmady arms displayed
                        upon its swinging sign?board. A miller’s tented waggon, all powdery with
                        flour, and its team of six horses, brave with brass harness and bells, a
                        timber?carriage, and a couple of spring?carts, were drawn up on the
                        half?moon of gravel before the porch; while, from out the open door, came a
                        sound of voices and odour of many pipes and much stale beer.
                    And Richard had uninterrupted leisure to bestow on all this seeing, for his
                        companion, Colonel Ormiston, was preoccupied and silent. Once or twice he
                        looked down at the boy as though suddenly remembering his presence and
                        inquired if he was “all right.” But it was not until they had crossed the
                        long, white?railed bridge, at the end of Sandyfield street—which spans not
                        only the little, brown river overhung by black?stemmed alders, but a bit of
                        marsh, reminiscent of the ancient ford, lush with water?grasses, beds of
                        king?cups, and broad?leaved docks—not until then, did Colonel Ormiston make
                        sustained effort at conversation. Beyond the bridge the road forks.
                    “Left to Newlands, isn’t it?” he asked sharply.
                    Then, as the carriage swept round the turn, he woke up from his long reverie,
                        waking Richard up also, from his long dream of mere seeing, to human drama
                        but dimly apprehended close there at his side.
                    “Oh, well, well!” the man exclaimed, throwing back his head in sharp
                        impatience, as a horse will against the restraint of the bearing?rein. He
                        raised his eyebrows, while his lips set in a smile the reverse of gay. Then
                        he looked down at Richard again, an unwonted softness in his expression.
                    
                    “Been happy?” he said. “Enjoyed your drive? That’s right. You understand the
                        art of being really good company, Dick.”
                    “What’s that?”
                    “Allowing other people to be just as bad company as they like.”
                    “I—I don’t see how you could be bad company,” Dickie said, flushing at the
                        audacity of his little compliment.
                    “Don’t you, dear old chap? Well, that’s very nice of you. All the same I
                        find, at times, I can be precious bad company to myself.”
                    “Oh! but I don’t see how,” the boy argued, his enthusiasm protesting against
                        all possibility of default in the object of it. Richard wanted to keep his
                        hands down,—unconsciousness, if only assumed, told for personal
                        dignity,—but, in the agitation of protest, spite of himself, he laid hold of
                        the top edge of that same chastening strap. “It must be so awfully jolly to
                        be like you—able to do everything and go everywhere. There must be such a
                        lot to think about.”
                    The softness was still upon Ormiston’s face.—“Such a lot?” he said. “A jolly
                        lot too much, believe me, very often, Dick.”
                    He looked away up the copse?bordered road, over the ears of the trotting
                        horses.
                    “You’ve read the story of Blue Beard and that unpleasant locked?up room of
                        his, where the poor, little wives hung all of a row? Well, I’m sorry to say,
                        Dick, most men when they come to my age have a room of that sort. It’s an
                        inhospitable place. One doesn’t invite one’s friends to dine and smoke
                        there. At least no gentleman does. I’ve met one or two persons who set the
                        door open and rather gloried in inviting inspection—but they were
                        blackguards and cads. They don’t count. Still each of us is obliged to go in
                        there sometimes himself. I tell you it’s anything but lively. I’ve been in
                        there just now.”
                    The dappled cloud creeping upward from the southern horizon veiled the sun,
                        the light of which grew pale and thin. The scent of the larch wood, on the
                        right, hung in the air. Richard’s eyes were wide with inquiry. His mind
                        suffered growing?pains, as young minds of any intellectual and poetic worth
                        needs must. The possibility of moral experience, incalculable in extent as
                        that golden?grey outspread of creeping, increasing vapour overhead,
                        presented itself to him. The vastness of life touched him to fear. He
                        struggled to find a limit, clothing his effort in childish realism of
                        statement.
                    
                    “But in that locked?up room, Uncle Roger, you can’t have dead women—dead
                        wives?”
                    Ormiston laughed quietly.
                    “You hit out pretty straight from the shoulder, Master Dick,” he said.
                        “Happily I can reassure you on one point. All manner of things are hung up
                        in there—some ugly—almost all ugly now, to my eyes, though some of them had
                        charming ways with them once upon a time. But, I give you my word, neither
                        ugly nor charming, dead nor alive, are there any wives.”
                    The boy considered a moment, then said stoutly:—“I wouldn’t go in there
                        again. I’d lock the door and throw away the key.”
                    “Wait till your time comes! You’ll find that is precisely what you can’t
                        do.”
                    “Then I’d fetch them out, once and for all, and bury them.”
                    The carriage had turned in at the lodge gate. Soon a long, low, white house
                        and range of domed conservatories came into view.
                    “Heroic remedies!” Ormiston remarked, amused at the boy’s vehemence. “But no
                        doubt they do succeed now and then. To tell you the truth, Dick, I have been
                        thinking of something of the kind myself. Only I’m afraid I shall need
                        somebody to help me in carrying out so extensive a funeral.”
                    “Anybody would be glad enough to help you,” Richard declared, with a strong
                        emphasis on the pronoun.
                    “Ah! but the bother is anybody can’t help one. Only one person in all this
                        great rough and tumble of a world can really help one. And often one finds
                        out who that person is a little bit too late. However, here we are. Perhaps
                        we shall know more about it all in the next half?hour, if these good people
                        are at home.”
                    In point of fact the good people in question were not at home. Ormiston,
                        holding reins and whip in one hand, felt for his card?case. 
                    “So we’ve had our journey for nothing you see, Dick,” he said.
                    And to Richard the words sounded regretful. Moreover, the drama of this
                        expedition seemed to him shorn of its climax. He knew there should be
                        something more, and pushed for it.
                    “You haven’t asked for Mary,” he said. “And I thought we came on purpose to
                        see Mary. She won’t like us to go away like this. Do ask.”
                    Colonel Ormiston’s expression altered, hardened. And Richard, in his present
                        hypersensitive state, remembered the cool scrutiny bestowed on the winged
                        sea?gull of his dream last night. This man
                        had seemed so near him just now while they talked. Suddenly he became remote
                        again, all understanding of him shut away by that slight insolence of
                        bearing. Still he did as Richard prayed him. Miss Cathcart was at home. She
                        had just come in from riding.
                    “Tell her Sir Richard Calmady is here, and would like, if he may, to see
                        her.”
                    Without waiting for a reply, Ormiston unbuckled that same chastening strap
                        silently, quickly. He got down and, coming round to the farther side of the
                        carriage, lifted Richard out; while Camp, who had jumped off the back seat,
                        stood yawning, whining a little, shaking his heavy head and wagging his tail
                        in welcome on the doorstep. With the bull?dog close at his heels, Ormiston
                        carried the boy into the house.
                    The inner doors were open, and, up the long, narrow, pleasantly fresh?tinted
                        drawing?room, Mary Cathcart came to meet them. The folds of her habit were
                        gathered up in one hand. In the other she carried a bunch of long?stalked,
                        yellow and scarlet tulips. Her strong, supple figure stood out against the
                        young green of the lawns and shrubberies, seen through the French windows
                        behind her. She walked carefully, with a certain deliberation, thanks to her
                        narrow habit and top?boots. The young lady carried her thirty?one years
                        bravely. Her irregular features and large mouth had always been open to
                        criticism. But her teeth, when her lips parted, were white and even, and her
                        brown eyes frankly honest as ever.
                    “Why, Dickie dear, it is simply glorious to have you and Camp paying visits
                        on your own account.”—Her speech broke into a little cry, while her fingers
                        closed, so tightly on the tulips that the brittle stalks snapped, and the
                        gay?coloured bells of them hung limply, some falling on to the carpet about
                        her feet. “Roger—Colonel Ormiston—I didn’t know you were home—were
                        here!”—Her voice was uncontrollably glad.
                    Still carrying the boy, Ormiston stood before her, observing her keenly. But
                        he was no longer remote. His insolence, which, after all, may have been
                        chiefly self?protective, had vanished.
                    “I’m very sorry—I mean for those poor tulips. I came to pay my respects to
                        Mr. and Mrs. Cathcart, and not finding them was preparing to drive humbly
                        home again. But”—Certainly she carried her years well. She looked absurdly
                        young. The brown and rose?red of her complexion was clear as that of the
                        little maiden who had fought with, and over? come, and kissed the rough, Welsh pony refusing the grip by the roadside
                        long ago. The hint of a moustache emphasised the upturned corners of her
                        mouth—but that was rather captivating. Her eyes danced, under eyelids which
                        fluttered for the moment. She was not beautiful, not a woman to make men run
                        mad. Yet the comeliness of her body, and the spirit to which that body
                        served as index, was so unmistakably healthful, so sincere, that surely no
                        sane man, once gathering her into his arms, need ask a better
                        blessing.—“But,” Ormiston went on, still watching her, “nothing would
                        satisfy Dick but he must see you. With many injunctions regarding his
                        safety, Katherine made him over to me for the afternoon. I’m on duty, you
                        see. Where he goes, I’m bound to go also—even to the destruction of your
                        poor tulips.”
                    Miss Cathcart made no direct answer.
                    “Sit here, Dickie,” she said, pointing to a sofa.
                    “But you don’t really mind our coming in, do you?” he asked, rather
                        anxiously.
                    The young lady placed herself beside him, drew his hand on to her knee,
                        patted it gently.
                    “Mind? No; on the whole, I don’t think I do mind very much. In fact, I think
                        I should probably have minded very much more if you had gone away without
                        asking for me.”
                    “There, I told you so, Uncle Roger,” the boy said triumphantly. Camp had
                        jumped up on to the sofa too. He put his arm comfortably round the dog’s
                        neck. It was as well to acquire support on both sides, for the surface of
                        the glazed chintz was slippery, inconveniently unsustaining to his
                        equilibrium.—“It’s an awfully long time since I’ve seen Mary,” he continued,
                        “more than three weeks.”
                    “Yes, an awfully long time,” Ormiston echoed, “more than six years.”
                    “Dear Dickie,” she said; “how pretty of you! Do you always keep count of my
                        visits?”
                    “Of course I do. They were about the best things that ever happened, till
                        Uncle Roger came home.”
                    Forgetting herself, Mary Cathcart raised her eyes to Ormiston’s in appeal.
                        The boy’s little declaration stirred all the latent motherhood in her. His
                        fortunes at once passed so very far beyond, and fell so far short of, the
                        ordinary lot. She wondered whether, and could not but trust that, this old
                        friend and new?comer was not too self?centred, too hardened by ability and
                        success, to appreciate the intimate pathos of the position. Ormiston read
                        and answered her thought.
                    
                    “Oh! we are going to do something to change all that,” he said confidently.
                        “We are going to enlarge our borders a bit, aren’t we, Dick? Only, I think,
                        we should manage matters much better if Miss Cathcart would help us, don’t
                        you?”
                    Richard remembering the locked?up room of evil contents and that proposal of
                        inclusive funeral rites, gave this utterance a wholly individual
                        application. His face grew bright with intelligence. But, greatly
                        restraining himself, he refrained from speech. All that had been revealed to
                        him in confidence, and so his honour was engaged to silence.
                    Ormiston pulled forward a chair and sat down by him, leaning forward, his
                        hands clasped about one knee, while he gazed at the tulips scattered on the
                        floor.
                    “So tell Miss Cathcart we all want her to come over to Brockhurst just as
                        often as she can,” he continued, “and help us to make the wheels go round a
                        little faster. Tell her we’ve grown very old, and discreet, and respectable,
                        and that we are absolutely incapable of doing or saying anything foolish or
                        naughty, which she would object to—and”—
                    But Richard could restrain himself no longer.—“Why don’t you tell her
                        yourself, Uncle Roger?”
                    “Because, my dear old chap, a burnt child fears the fire. I tried to tell
                        Miss Cathcart something once, long ago. She mayn’t remember”—
                    “She does remember,” Mary said quietly, looking down at Richard’s hand and
                        patting it as it lay on her lap.
                    “But she stopped me dead,” Ormiston went on. “It was quite right of her. She
                        gave the most admirable reasons for stopping me. Would you care to hear
                        them?”
                    “Oh! don’t, pray don’t,” Mary murmured. “It is not generous.”
                    “Pardon me, your reasons were absolutely just—true in substance and in fact.
                        You said I was a selfish, good?for?nothing spendthrift, and so”—
                    “I was odious,” she broke in. “I was a self?righteous little Pharisee—forgive
                        me”—
                    “Why—there’s nothing to forgive. You spoke the truth.”
                    “I don’t believe it,” Richard cried, in vehement protest.
                    “Dickie, you’re a darling,” Mary Cathcart said.
                    Colonel Ormiston left off nursing his knee, and leaned a little farther
                        forward.
                    “Well then, will you come over to Brockhurst very often, and help us to make
                        the wheels go round, and cheer us all up, and do us no end of good, though—I
                        am a selfish, good?for? nothing
                        spendthrift? You see I run through the list of my titles again to make sure
                        this transaction is fair and square and above?board.”
                    A silence followed, which appeared to Richard protracted to the point of
                        agitation. He became almost distressingly conscious of the man’s still,
                        bronzed, resolute face on the one hand, of the woman’s mobile, vivid, yet
                        equally resolute face on the other, divining far more to be at stake than he
                        had clear knowledge of. Tired and excited, his impatience touched on
                        anger.
                    “Say yes, Mary,” he cried impulsively, “say yes. I don’t see how anybody can
                        want to refuse Uncle Roger anything.”
                    Miss Cathcart’s eyes grew moist. She turned and kissed the boy.
                    “I don’t think—perhaps—Dickie, that I quite see either,” she answered very
                        gently.
                    “Mary, you know what you’ve just said?”—Ormiston’s tone was stern. “You
                        understand this little comedy? It means business. This time you’ve got to go
                        the whole hog or none.”
                    She looked straight at him, and drew her breath in a long half?laughing
                        sigh.
                    “Oh, dear me! what a plague of a hurry you are in!” she said.
                        “Well—then—then—I suppose I must—it is hardly a graceful expression, but it
                        is of your choosing, not of mine—I suppose I must go the whole hog.”
                    Roger Ormiston rose, treading the fallen tulips under foot. And Richard,
                        watching him, beheld that which called to his remembrance, not the hopeless
                        and impotent battle under the black, polished sky of his last night’s dream,
                        but the gallant stories he had heard, earlier last night, of the battles of
                        Sobraon and Chillianwallah, of the swift dangers of sport, and large daring
                        of travel. Here he beheld—so it seemed to his boyish thought?the aspect of a
                        born conqueror, of the man who can serve and wait long for the good he
                        desires, and who, winning it, lays hold of it with fearless might. And this,
                        while causing Richard an exquisite delight of admiration, caused him also a
                        longing to share those splendid powers so passionate that it amounted to
                        actual pain.
                    Mary Cathcart’s hand slid from under his hand. She too rose to her feet.
                    “Then you have actually cared for me all along, all these years?” Ormiston
                        declared in fierce joy.
                    “Of course—who else could I care for? And—and—you’ve loved me, Roger, all the
                        while?”
                    And Ormiston answered “Yes,”—speaking the truth, though with a difference. There had been interludes that
                        had contributed somewhat freely to the peopling of that same locked?up room.
                        But it is possible for a man to love many times, yet always love one woman
                        best.
                    All this, however, Dickie did not know. He only knew they dazzled him—the man
                        triumphantly strong, the woman so bravely glad. He could not watch them any
                        longer. He went hot all over, and his heart beat. He felt strangely desolate
                        too. They were far away from him, in thought, though so close by. Dickie
                        shut his eyes, put his arms round the bull?dog, pressed his face hard
                        against the faithful beast’s shoulder; while Camp, stretching his short neck
                        to the uttermost, nuzzled against him and essayed to lick his cheek.
                    Thus did Richard Calmady gain yet further knowledge of things as they
                        are.
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV
                    WHICH SMELLS VERY VILELY OF THE STABLE
                    APRIL softened into May, and the hawthorns were in blossom before
                        Richard passed any other very noteworthy milestone on the road of personal
                        development. Then, greatly tempted, he committed a venial sin; received
                        prompt and coarse chastisement; and, by means of the said chastisement, as
                        is the merciful way of the Eternal Justice, found unhoped of
                        emancipation.
                    It happened thus. As the spring days grew warm Mademoiselle de Mirancourt
                        failed somewhat. The darkness and penetrating chill of the English winter
                        tried her, and this year her recuperative powers seemed sadly deficient. A
                        fuller tide of life had pulsed through Brockhurst since Colonel Ormiston’s
                        arrival. The old stillness was departing, the old order changing. With that
                        change Mademoiselle de Mirancourt had no quarrel, since, to her serene
                        faith, all that came must, of necessity, come through a divine ordering and
                        in conformity to a divine plan. Yet this more of activity and of movement
                        strained her. The weekly drive over to Westchurch, to hear mass at the
                        humble Catholic chapel tucked away in a side street, sorely taxed her
                        strength. She returned fortified, her soul ravished by that heavenly love,
                        which, in pure and innocent natures, bears such gracious kinship to earthly
                        love. Yet in body she was outworn and
                        weary. On such occasions she would rally Julius March, not without a touch
                        of malice, saying:—
                    “Ah! très cher ami, had you only followed
                        the ever blessed footsteps of those dear Oxford friends of yours and entered
                        the fold of the true Church, what fatigue might you not now spare me—let
                        alone the incalculable advantages to your own poor, charming, fatally
                        darkened soul!”
                    While Julius—who, though no less devout than of yore, was happily less
                        fastidiously sensitive—would reply:—
                    “But, dearest lady, had I followed the footsteps of my Oxford friends,
                        remember I should not be at Brockhurst at all.”
                    “Clearly, then, everything is well ordered,” she would say, folding her
                        fragile hands upon her embroidery frame, “since it is altogether impossible
                        we could do without you. Yet I regret for your soul. It is so capable of
                        receiving illumination. You English—even the most finished among you—remain
                        really deplorably stubborn, and nevertheless it is my fate perpetually to
                        set my affections upon one or other of you.”
                    It followed that Katherine devoted much of her time to Mademoiselle de
                        Mirancourt, walked slowly beside her up and down the sunny, garden paths
                        sheltered by the high, red walls whereon the clematis and jasmine began to
                        show for flower; or took her for quiet, little drives within the precincts
                        of the park. They spoke much of Lucia St. Quentin, of Katherine’s girlhood,
                        and of those pleasant days in Paris long ago. And this brought soothing and
                        comfort, not only to the old lady, but to the young lady also—and of
                        soothing and comfort the latter stood in need just now.
                    For it is harsh discipline even to a noble woman, whose life is still strong
                        in her, to stand by and see another woman, but a few years her junior,
                        entering on those joys which she has lost—marriage, probably motherhood as
                        well. Roger Ormiston and Mary Cathcart’s love?making was restrained and
                        dignified. But the very calm of their attitude implied a security of
                        happiness passing all need of advertisement. And Katherine was very far from
                        grudging them this. She was not envious, still less jealous. She did not
                        want to take anything of theirs; but she wanted, she sorely wanted, her own
                        again. A word, a look, a certain quickness of quiet laughter, would pierce
                        her with recollection. Once for her too, below the commonplaces of daily
                        detail, flowed that same magic river of delight. But the springs of it had
                        gone dry. Therefore it was a relief to be alone with Mademoiselle de
                        Mirancourt—virgin and saint—and to speak with her of the days before she,
                        Katherine, had sounded the lovely depths of that same magic flood—days when she had known of its
                        existence only by the mirage, born of the dazzle of its waters, which plays
                        over the innocent, vacant spaces of a young girl’s mind.
                    It was a relief even, though of sterner quality, to go into the red
                        drawing?room on the ground floor and pace there, her hands clasped behind
                        her, her proud head bowed, by the half?hour together. If personal joy is
                        dead past resurrection, there is bitter satisfaction in realising to the
                        full personal pain. The room was duly swept, dusted, casements set open to
                        welcome breeze and sunshine, fires lighted in the grate. But no one ever sat
                        there. It knew no cheerfulness of social intercourse. The crimson curtains
                        and covers had become faded. They were not renewed. The furniture, save for
                        the absence of the narrow bed, stood in precisely the same order as on the
                        night when Sir Richard Calmady died. It was pushed back against the walls.
                        And in the wide, empty way between the two doors, Katherine paced,
                        saturating all her being with thoughts of that which was, and must remain,
                        wholly and inalienably her own—namely her immense distress.
                    And in this she took the more comfort, because something else, until now
                        appearing wholly her own, was slipping a little away from her. Dickie’s
                        health had improved notably in the last few weeks. His listlessness had
                        vanished, while his cheeks showed a wholesome warmth of colour. But his cry
                        was ever—“Mother, Uncle Roger’s going to such a place. He says he’ll take
                        me. I can go, can’t I?” Or—“Mother, Mary’s going to do such a thing. She
                        says she’ll show me how. She may, mayn’t she?” And Katherine’s answer was
                        always “Yes.” She grudged the boy none of his new?found pleasures, rejoiced
                        indeed to see him interested and gay. Yet to watch the new broom, which
                        sweeps so clean, is rarely exhilarating to those that have swept diligently
                        with the old one. The nest had held her precious fledgling so safely till
                        now, and this fluttering of wings, eager for flight, troubled her somewhat.
                        Not only was Dickie’s readiness to be away from her a trifle hard to bear;
                        but she knew that disappointment, of a certainty, lay in wait for him, and
                        that each effort towards wider action would but reveal to him how
                        circumscribed his powers actually were.
                    Meanwhile, however, Richard enjoyed himself recklessly, almost feverishly, in
                        the attempt to disprove the teaching of that ugly dream, and keep truth at
                        bay. There had been further drives, and the excitement of witnessing a
                        forest fire—only too frequent in the Brockhurst country when the sap is up,
                        and the easterly wind and May sun have scorched all moisture from the surface of the moorland. He and Mary had
                        bumped over fir roots and scuttled down bridle?paths in the pony?carriage,
                        to avoid the rush of flame and smoke; had skirmished round at a hand gallop,
                        in search of recruits to reinforce Ormiston, and Iles, and a small army of
                        beaters, battling against the blazing line that threatened destruction to
                        the fir avenue. Now and again, with a mighty roar, which sent Dickie’s heart
                        into his mouth, great tongues of flame, clear as topaz and ruby in the
                        steady sunshine, would leap upwards, converting a whole tall fir into a tree
                        of fire, while the beaters running back, grimed with smoke and sweat, took a
                        moment’s breathing?space in the open.
                    There had been more peaceful pastimes as well—several days’ fishing,
                        enchanting beyond the power of language to describe. The clear trout?stream
                        meandering through the rich water?meadows; the herds of cattle standing
                        knee?deep in the grass, lazily chewing the cud and switching their tails at
                        the cloud of flies; the birds and wild creatures haunting the streamside;
                        the long dreamy hours of gentle sport, had opened up to Dickie a whole new
                        world of romance. His donkey?chair had been left at the yellow?washed mill
                        beneath the grove of silvery?leaved, ever?rustling, balsam poplars. And
                        thence, while Ormiston and Mary sauntered slowly on ahead, the men—Winter in
                        mufti, oblivious of plate?cleaning and cellarage, and the onerous duties of
                        his high estate, Stamp, the water?bailiff, and Moorcock, one of the
                        under?keepers—had carried him across the great, green levels. Winter was an
                        old and tried friend, and it was somewhat diverting to behold him in this
                        novel aspect, affable and chatty with inferiors, displaying, moreover,
                        unexpected knowledge in the mysteries of the angler’s craft. The other two
                        men—sharp?featured, their faces ruddy as summer apples, merry?eyed, clad in
                        velveteen coats, that bulged about the pockets, and wrinkled leather gaiters
                        reaching half?way up the thigh—charmed Richard, when his first shyness was
                        passed. They were eager to please him. Their talk was racy. Their laughter
                        ready and sincere. Did not Stamp point out to him a water?ouzel, with
                        impudently jerking tail, dipping and wading in the shallows of the stream?
                        Did not Moorcock find him a water?rail’s nest, hidden in a tuft of reeds and
                        grass, with ten, yellowish, speckled eggs in it? And did not both men pluck
                        him handfuls of cowslips, of tawny?pink avens, and of mottled, snake?headed
                        fritillarias, and stow them away in the fishing?baskets above the load of
                        silver?and?red spotted trout?
                    Mary had protested Dickie could throw a fly, if he had a light enough rod.
                        And not only did he throw a fly, but at the fourth or fifth cast a fish rose, and he played it—with skirling reel and
                        much advice and most complimentary excitement on the part of the whole good
                        company—and brought it skilfully within range of Stamp’s landing?net. Never
                        surely was trout spawned that begot such bliss in the heart of an angler!
                        As, with panting sides and open gills, this three?quarter?pound treasure of
                        treasures flopped about on the sunny stream bank all the hereditary instinct
                        of sport spoke up clearly in Dickie. The boy—such is youthful masculine
                        human nature—believed he understood at last why the world was made! At
                        dressing?time he had his sacred fish carried on a plate up to his room to
                        show Clara; and, but for strong remonstrance on the part of that devoted
                        handmaiden, would have kept it by his bedside all night, so as to assure
                        himself at intervals, by sense of touch—let alone that of smell—of the
                        adorable fact of its veritable existence.
                    But all this, inspiring though it was, served but as prelude to a more
                        profoundly coveted acquaintance—that with the racing?stable. For it was
                        after this last that Dickie still supremely longed—the more so, it is to be
                        feared, because it was, if not explicitly, yet implicitly forbidden. A
                        spirit of defiance had entered into him. Being granted the inch, he was
                        disposed to take the ell. And this, not in conscious opposition to his
                        mother’s will; but in protest, not uncourageous, against the limitations
                        imposed on him by physical misfortune. The boy’s blood was up, and
                        consequently, with greater pluck than discretion, he struggled against the
                        intimate, inalienable enemy that so marred his fate. And it was this not
                        ignoble effort which culminated in disobedience.
                    For driving back one afternoon, later than usual,—Ormiston had met them, and
                        Mary and he had taken a by?path home through the woods,—the pony?carriage,
                        turned along the high level road beside the lake, going eastward, just as
                        the string of racehorses, coming home from exercise, passed along it coming
                        west. Richard was driving, Chaplin, the second coachman, sitting in the
                        dickey at the back of the low carriage. He checked the pony, and his eyes
                        took in the whole scene—the blue?brown expanse of the lake dotted with
                        water?fowl, on the one hand, the immense, blue?brown landscape on the other,
                        ranging away to the faint line of the chalk downs in the south; the downward
                        slope of the park, to the great square of red stable?buildings in the
                        hollow; the horses coming slowly towards him in single file. Cawing rooks
                        streamed back from the fallow?fields across the valley. Thrushes and
                        blackbirds carolled. A wren, in the bramble?brake close by, broke into
                        sharp, sweet song. The recurrent ring of
                        an axe came from somewhere away in the fir plantations, and the strident
                        rasping of a saw from the wood?yard in the beech grove near the house.
                    Richard stared at that oncoming procession. Half?way between him and the
                        foremost of the horses the tan ride branched off, and wound down the
                        hillside to the stables. The boy set his teeth. He arrived at a desperate
                        decision—touched up the pony and drove on.
                    Chaplin leaned forward, addressing him over the back of the seat.
                    “Better wait here, hadn’t we, Sir Richard? They’ll turn off in a minute.”
                    Richard did not look round. He tried to answer coldly, but his voice
                        shook.
                    “I know. That’s why I am going on.”
                    There was a silence save for the cawing of the rooks, ring of the axe, and
                        grinding of wheels on the gravel. Chaplin, responsible, correct, over
                        five?and?thirty, and fully intending to succeed old Mr. Wenham, the head
                        coachman, on the latter’s impending retirement from active service, went
                        very red in the face.
                    “Excuse me, but I have my orders, Sir Richard,” he said.
                    Dickie still looked straight ahead.
                    “Very well,” he answered, “then perhaps you’d better get out and walk on
                        home.”
                    “You know I’m bound not to leave you, sir,” the man said.
                    Dickie laughed a little in uncontrollable excitement. He was close to them
                        now. The leading horse was just moving off the main road, its shadow lying
                        long across the turf. How was it possible to give way with the prize within
                        reach?—“You can go or stay Chaplin, as you please. I mean to speak to
                        Chifney. I—I mean to see the stables.”
                    “It’s as much as my place is worth, sir.”
                    “Oh! bother your place!” the boy cried impetuously.—Dear heart alive, how
                        fine they were as they filed by! That chestnut filly, clean made as a deer,
                        her ears laid back as she reached at the bit; and the brown, just behind
                        her—“I mean, I mean you needn’t be afraid, Chaplin—I’ll speak to her
                        ladyship. I’ll arrange all that. Go to the pony’s head.”
                    At the end of the long string of horses came the trainer—a square?built,
                        short?necked man, sanguine complexioned and clean shaven. Of hair, indeed,
                        Mr. Chifney could only boast a rim of carroty?grey stubble under the rim of
                        the back of his hard hat. His right eye
                        had suffered damage, and the pupil of it was white and viscous. His lips
                        were straight and purplish in colour. He raised his hat and would have
                        followed on down the slope, but Dickie called to him.
                    As he rode up an unwonted expression came over Mr. Chifney’s shrewd,
                        hard?favoured face. He took off his hat and sat there, bare?headed in the
                        sunshine, looking down at the boy his hand on his hip.
                    “Good?day, Sir Richard,” he said. “Anything I can do for you?”
                    “Yes, yes,” Dickie stammered, all his soul in his eyes, his cheeks aflame,
                        “you can do just what I want most. Take me down, Chifney, and show me the
                        horses.”
                    Here Chaplin coughed discreetly behind his hand. But that proved of small
                        avail, save possibly in the way of provocation. For, socially, between the
                        racing and house stables was a great gulf fixed; and Mr. Chifney could
                        hardly be expected to recognise the existence of a man in livery standing at
                        a pony’s head, still less to accept direction from such a person. Servants
                        must be kept in their place—impudent, lazy enough lot anyhow, bless you! On
                        his feet the trainer had been known to decline to moments of weakness. But
                        in the saddle, a good horse under him, he possessed unlimited belief in his
                        own judgment, fearing neither man, devil, nor even his own meek?faced wife
                        with lilac ribbons in her cap. Moreover, he felt such heart as he had go out
                        strangely to the beautiful, eager boy gazing up at him.
                    “Nothing ’ud give me greater pleasure in life, Sir Richard,” he said, “if
                        you’re free to come. We’ve waited a long time, a precious long time, sir,
                        for you to come down and take a look at your horses.”
                    “I’d have been to see them sooner. I’d have given anything to see them. I’ve
                        never had the chance, somehow.”
                    Chifney pursed up his lips, and surveyed the distant landscape with a very
                        meaning glance. “I daresay not, Sir Richard. But better late than never, you
                        know; and so, if you are free to come”—
                    Again Chaplin coughed.
                    “Free to come? Of course I am free to come,” Dickie asserted, his pride
                        touched to arrogance. And Mr. Chifney looked at him, an approving twinkle in
                        his sound eye.
                    “I agree, Sir Richard. Quite right, sir, you’re free, of course.”
                    Stolen waters are sweet, says the proverb. And to Richard Calmady, his not
                        wholly legitimate experience of the next hour was sweet indeed. For there remains rich harvest
                        of poetry in all sport worth the name, let squeamish and sentimental persons
                        declaim against it as they may. Strength and endurance, disregard of
                        suffering, have a permanent appeal and value, even in their coarsest
                        manifestations. No doubt the noble gentlemen of the neighbourhood, who “lay
                        at Brockhurst two nights” on the occasion of Sir Denzil’s historic
                        house?warming, to witness the mighty bear?baiting, were sensible of
                        something more in that somewhat disgusting exhibition, than the mere
                        gratification of brutal instincts, the mere savage relish for wounds and
                        pain and blood. And to Sir Denzil’s latest descendant the first sight of the
                        training?stable—as the pony?carriage came to a standstill alongside the
                        grass plot in the centre of the great, gravelled square—offered very
                        definite and stirring poetry of a kind.
                    On three sides the quadrangle was shut in by one?storied, brick buildings,
                        the woodwork of doors and windows immaculate with white paint. Behind, over
                        the wide archway,—closed fortress?like by heavy doors at night,—were the
                        head?lad’s and helpers’ quarters. On either side, forge and weighing?room,
                        saddler’s and doctor’s shop. To right and left a range of stable doors, with
                        round swing?lights between each; and, above these, the windows of hay and
                        straw lofts and of the boys’ dormitories. In front were the dining?rooms and
                        kitchens, and the trainer’s house—a square clock tower, carrying an ornate
                        gilt vane, rising from the cluster of red roofs. Twenty years had weathered
                        the raw of brick walls, and painted the tiling with all manner of orange and
                        rusty?coloured lichens; yet the whole place was admirably spick and span,
                        free of litter. Many cats, as Dickie noted, meditated in sunny corners, or
                        prowled in the open with truly official composure. Over all stretched a
                        square of bluest sky, crossed by a skein of homeward?wending rooks. While
                        above the roofs, on either side the archway, the high?lying lands of the
                        park showed up, broken here and there by clumps of trees.
                    Mr. Chifney slipped out of the saddle.—“Here, boy, take my horse,” he shouted
                        to a little fellow hurrying across the yard. “I’m heartily glad to see you,
                        Sir Richard,” he went on. “Now, if you care, as your father’s son can’t very
                        well be off caring, for horses”—
                    “If I care!” echoed Dickie, his eyes following the graceful, chestnut filly
                        as she was led in over the threshold of her stable.
                    “I like that. That’ll do. Chip of the old block after all,” the trainer said,
                        with evident relish. “Well then, since you do care for horses as you ought
                        to, Sir Richard, we’ll just make you free
                        of this establishment. About the most first?class private establishment in
                        England, sir, though I say it that have run the concern pretty well
                        single?handed for the best part of the last fifteen years—make you free of
                        it right away, sir. And, look you, when you’ve got hold, don’t you leave
                        hold.”
                    “No, I won’t,” Dickie said stoutly.
                    Mr. Chifney was in a condition of singular emotion, as he wrapped Richard’s
                        rug about him and bore him away into the stables. He even went so far as to
                        swear a little under his breath; and Chifney was a very fairly clean?mouthed
                        man, unless members of his team of twenty and odd naughty boys got up to
                        some devilry with their charges. He carried Richard as tenderly as could any
                        woman, while he tramped from stall to stall, loose?box to loose?box,
                        praising his racers, calling attention to their points, recounting past
                        prowess, or prophesying future victories.
                    And the record was a fine one; for good luck had clung to the masterless
                        stable, as Lady Calmady’s bank?books and ledgers could testify.
                    “Vinedresser, by Red Burgundy out of Valeria—won two races at the Newmarket
                        Spring Meeting the year before last. Lamed himself somehow in the horse?box
                        coming back—did nothing for eighteen months—hope to enter him for some of
                        the autumn events.”—Then later:—“Sahara, by North African out of
                        Sally?in?our?Alley. Beautiful mare? I believe you, Sir Richard. Why she won
                        the Oaks for you. Jack White was up. Pretty a race as ever I witnessed, and
                        cleverly ridden. Like to go up to her in the stall? She’s as quiet as a
                        lamb. Catch hold of her head, boy.”
                    And so Dick found himself seated on the edge of the manger, the trainer’s arm
                        round him, and the historic Sahara snuffing at his jacket pockets.
                    Then they crossed the quadrangle to inspect the colts and fillies, whose
                        glories still lay ahead.
                    “Verdigris, by Copper King out of Valeria again. And if he doesn’t make a
                        name I’ll never judge another horse, sir. Strain of the old Touchstone blood
                        there. Rather ugly? Yes, they’re often a bit ugly that lot, but devilish
                        good ’uns to go. You ask Miss Cathcart about them. Never met a lady who’d as
                        much knowledge as she has of a horse. The Baby, by Punch out of Lady
                        Bountiful. Not much good, I’m afraid. No grip, you see, too contracted in
                        the hoofs. Chloroform, by Sawbones out of sister to Castinette.”
                    And so forth, an endless repetition of genealogies, comments, anecdotes to which Dickie lent most attentive
                        ear. He was keen to learn, his attention was on the stretch. He was in
                        process of initiation, and every moment of the sacred rites came to him with
                        power and value. Yet it must be owned that he found the lessening of the
                        strain on his memory and attention not wholly unwelcome when Mr. Chifney,
                        sitting beside him on the big, white?painted corn?bin opposite Diplomacy’s
                        loose?box, began to tell him of the old times when he—a little fellow of
                        eight to ten years of age—had been among the boys in his cousin, Sam
                        Chifney’s famous stable at Newmarket. Of the long, weary travelling, before
                        the days of railways, when the horses were walked by highroad and country
                        lane, ankle deep in mud, from Newmarket to Epsom; and after victory or
                        defeat, walked by slow stages all the way home again. Of how, later, he had
                        migrated to Doncaster; but, not liking the “Yorkshire tykes,” had got taken
                        on in some well?known stables upon the Berkshire downs.
                    “And it was there, Sir Richard,” he said, “I met your father, and we fancied
                        each other from the first. And he asked me to come to him. These stables
                        were just building then. And here I’ve been ever since.”
                    Mr. Chifney stared down at the clean, red quarries of the stable floor, and
                        tapped his neat gaiters with the switch he held in his hand.
                    “Rum places, racing?stables,” he went on, meditatively, “and a lot of rum
                        things go on in ’em, one way and another, as you’ll come to know. And it
                        ain’t the easiest thing going, I tell you, to keep your hands clean.
                        Ungrateful business a trainer’s, Sir Richard—wearing business—shortens a
                        man’s temper and makes him old before his time. Out by four o’clock on
                        summer mornings, minding your cattle and keeping your eye on those shirking
                        blackguards of boys. No real rest, sir, day or night. Wearing
                        business—studying all the meetings and entering your horses where you’ve
                        reason to reckon they’ve most chance. And if your horse wins, the jockey
                        gets all the praise and the petting. And if it fails, the trainer gets all
                        the blame. Yes, it’s wearing work. But, confound it all, sir,” he broke out
                        hotly, “there’s nothing like it on the face of God’s earth.
                        Horses—horses—horses—why the very smell of the bedding’s sweeter than a
                        bunch of roses. Love ’em? I believe you. And you’ll love ’em too before
                        you’ve done.”
                    He turned and gripped Dickie hard by the shoulder.
                    “For we’ll make a thorough?paced sportsman of you yet, Sir Richard,” he said,
                        “God bless you—danged if we don’t.”
                    
                    Which assertion Mr. Chifney repeated at frequent intervals over his grog that
                        evening, as he sat, not in the smart dining?room hung round with portraits
                        of Vinedresser and Sahara and other equine notabilities, but in the snug,
                        little, back parlour looking out on to the yard. Mrs. Chifney was a gentle,
                        pious woman, with whom her husband’s profession went somewhat against the
                        grain. She would have preferred a nice grocery, or other respectable,
                        uneventful business, in a country town, and dissipation in the form of
                        prayer rather than of race?meetings. But as a slender, slightly
                        self?righteous, young maiden she had fallen very honestly and completely in
                        love with Tom Chifney. So there was nothing for it but to marry him and
                        regard the horses as her appointed cross. She nursed the boys when they were
                        sick or injured, intervened fairly successfully between their poor, little
                        backs and her husband’s all?too?ready ash stick; and assisted Julius March
                        in promoting their spiritual welfare, even while deploring that the latter
                        put his faith in forms and ceremonies rather than in saving grace. Upon the
                        trainer himself she exercised a gently repressive influence.
                    “We won’t swear, Mr. Chifney,” she remarked mildly now.
                    “Swear! It’s enough to make the whole bench of bishops swear to see that
                        lad.”
                    “I did see him,” Mrs. Chifney observed.
                    “Yes, out of window. But you didn’t carry him round, and hear him
                        talk—knowledgeable talk as you could ask from one of his age. And watch his
                        face—as like as two peas to his father’s.”
                    “But her ladyship’s eyes,” put in Mrs. Chifney.
                    “I don’t know whose eyes they are, but I know he can use ’em. It was as
                        pretty as a picture to see how he took it all.”
                    Chifney tossed off the remainder of his tumbler of brandy and water at a
                        gulp.
                    “Swear,” he repeated, “I could find it in my heart to swear like hell. But I
                        can find it in my heart to do more than that. I can forgive her ladyship. By
                        all that’s”—
                    “Thomas, forgiveness and oaths don’t go suitably together.”
                    “Well, but I can though, and I tell you, I do,” he said solemnly. “I forgive
                        her.—Shoot the Clown! by G—! I beg your pardon, Maria—but upon my soul, once
                        or twice, when I had him in my arms to?day, I felt I could have understood
                        it if she’d had every horse shot that stood in the stable.”
                    He held the tumbler up against the lamp. But it was quite empty.
                    “Uncommon glad she didn’t though, poor lady, all the same,” he added, parenthetically, as he set it
                        down on the table again.—“What do you say, Maria—about time we toddled off
                        to bed?”
                
                
                    CHAPTER V
                    IN WHICH DICKIE IS INTRODUCED TO A LITTLE DANCER WITH
                        BLUSH?ROSES IN HER HAT
                    “HER ladyship’s inquired for you more than once, sir.”—This from
                        Winter meeting the pony?carriage and the returning prodigal at the bottom of
                        the steps.
                    The sun was low. Across the square lawn—whereon the Clown had found death
                        some thirteen years before—peacocks led home their hens and chicks to roost
                        within the two sexagonal, pepper?pot summer?houses that fill in the angles
                        of the red?walled enclosure. The pea?fowl stepped mincingly,
                        high?shouldered, their heads carried low, their long necks undulating with a
                        self?conscious grace. Dickie’s imagination was aglow like that rose?red,
                        sunset sky. The virile sentiment of all just heard and seen, and the
                        exultation of admitted ownership were upon him. He felt older, stronger,
                        more secure of himself, than ever before. He proposed to go straight to his
                        mother and confess. In his present mood he entertained no fear but that she
                        would understand.
                    “Is Lady Calmady alone?” he asked.
                    “Mr. and Mrs. Cathcart are with her, Sir Richard.”—Winter leant down,
                        loosening the rug. His usual undemonstrative speech took on a loftiness of
                        tone. “Mrs. William Ormiston and her daughter have driven over with Mrs.
                        Cathcart.”—The butler was not without remembrance of that dinner on the day
                        following Dickie’s birth. Socially he had never considered Lady Calmady’s
                        sister?in?law quite up to the Brockhurst level.
                    Richard leaned back, watching the mincing peacocks. It was so fair here out
                        of doors. The scent of the may hung in the air. The flame of the sunset
                        bathed the façade of the stately house. No doubt it would be interesting to
                        see new people, new relations; but he really cared to see no one, just now,
                        except his mother. From her he wanted to receive absolution, so that, his
                        conscience relieved of the burden of his disobedience, he might revel to the
                        full in the thought of the inheritance upon which—so it seemed to him—he had to?day entered. Still, in his present
                        humour, Dickie’s sense of noblesse oblige
                        was strong.
                    “I suppose I’ve got to go in and help entertain everybody,” he remarked.
                    “Her ladyship’ll think something’s wrong, Sir Richard, and be anxious if you
                        stay away.”
                    The boy held out his arms. “All right then, Winter,” he said.
                    Here Chaplin again gave that admonitory cough. Richard, his face hardening to
                        slight scorn, looked at him over the butler’s shoulder.
                    “Oh! You need not be uneasy, Chaplin. When I say I’ll do a thing, I don’t
                        forget.”
                    Which brief speech caused the butler to reflect, as he bore the boy across
                        the hall and upstairs, that Sir Richard was coming to have an uncommonly
                        high manner about him, at times, considering his age.
                    An unwonted loudness of conversation filled the Chapel?Room. It was filled
                        also by the rose?red light of the sunset streaming in through the curve of
                        the oriel?window. This confused and dazzled Richard slightly, entering upon
                        it from the silence and sober clearness of the stair?head. A shrill note of
                        laughter.—Mr. Cathcart’s voice saying—“I felt it incumbent upon me to
                        object, Lady Calmady. I spoke very plainly to Fallowfeild.”—Julius March’s
                        delicately refined tones—“I am afraid spirituality is somewhat deficient in
                        that case.”—Then the high, flute?like notes of a child, rising dearly above
                        the general murmur?“Ah! enfin—le voilà, Maman. C’est
                            bien lui, n’est?ce pas?” And with that, Richard was aware of a
                        sudden hush falling upon the assembled company. He was sensible everyone
                        watched him as Winter carried him across the room and set him down in the
                        long, low arm?chair near the fireplace. Poor Dickie’s self?consciousness,
                        which had been so agreeably in abeyance, returned upon him, and a red, not
                        of the sunset, dyed his face. But he carried his head proudly. He thought of
                        Chifney and the horses. He refused to be abashed.
                    And Ormiston, breaking the silence, called to him cheerily:—
                    “Hello, old chap, what have you been up to? You gave Mary and me the
                        slip.”
                    “I know I did,” the boy answered bravely. “How d’ye do, Mrs. Cathcart?” as
                        the latter nodded and smiled to him—a large, gentle, comfortable lady,
                        uncertain in outline, thanks to voluminous draperies of black silk and black
                        lace. “How d’ye do, sir?” this to Mr. Cathcart—a tall, neatly?made man, but
                        for a slight roundness of the shoulders.
                        Seeing him, there remained no doubt as to whence Mary inherited her large
                        mouth; but matter for thankfulness that she had avoided further inheritance.
                        For Mr. Cathcart was notably plain. Small eyes and snub nose, long, lower
                        jaw, and grey, forward?curled whiskers rendered his appearance unfortunately
                        simian. He suggested a caricature; but one, let it be added, of a person
                        undeniably well?bred.
                    “My darling, you are very late,” Katherine said. Her back was towards her
                        guests as she stooped down arranging the embroidered rug across Dickie’s
                        feet and legs. Laying his hand on her wrist he squeezed it closely for a
                        moment.
                    “I—I’ll tell you all about that presently, mummy, when they’re gone. I’ve
                        been enjoying myself awfully—you won’t mind?”
                    Katherine smiled. But, looking up at her, it appeared to Richard that her
                        face was very white, her eyes very large and dark, and that she was very
                        tall and, somehow, very splendid just then. And this fed his fearlessness,
                        fed his young pride, even as, though in a more subtle and exquisite manner,
                        his late experience of the racing?stable had fed them. His mother moved away
                        and took up her interrupted conversation with Mr. Cathcart regarding the
                        delinquencies of Lord Fallowfeild. Richard looked coolly round the room.
                    Everyone was there—Julius, Mary, Mademoiselle de Mirancourt, while away in
                        the oriel?window Roger Ormiston stood talking to a pretty, plump, very much
                        dressed lady, who chattered, laughed, stared, with surprising vivacity. As
                        Dickie looked at her she stared back at him through a pair of gold
                        eye?glasses. Against her knee, that rosy light bathing her graceful, little
                        figure, leant a girl about Dickie’s own age. She wore a pale pink and blue
                        frock, short and outstanding in the skirts. She also wore a broad?brimmed,
                        white hat, with a garland of blush?roses around the crown of it. The little
                        girl did not stare. She contemplated Richard languidly, yet with sustained
                        attention. Her attitude and bearing were attractive. Richard wanted to see
                        her close, to talk to her. But to call and ask her to come to him was
                        awkward. And to go to her—the boy grew a little hot again—was more awkward
                        still.
                    Mrs. Ormiston dropped her gold eye?glasses into her lap.
                    “It really is ten thousand pities when these things happen in the wrong rank
                        of life,” she said. “Rightly placed they might be so profitable.”
                    “For goodness sake, be careful, Charlotte,” Ormiston put in quickly.
                    
                    “Oh! my dear creature, don’t be nervous. Everybody’s attending to everybody
                        else, and if they did hear they wouldn’t understand. I’m one of the
                        fortunate persons who are supposed never to talk sense and so I can say what
                        I like.” Mrs. Ormiston gave her shrill little laugh. “Oh! there are
                        consolations, depend upon it, in a well?sustained reputation for folly!”
                    The laugh jarred on Richard. He decided that he did not quite like his aunt
                        Charlotte Ormiston. All the same he wished the charming, little girl would
                        come to him.
                    “But to return.—It’s a waste. To some poor family it might have been a
                        perfect fortune. And I hate waste. Perhaps you have never discovered
                        that?”
                    Ormiston let his glance rest on the somewhat showy figure.
                    “I doubt if William has discovered it either,” he remarked.
                    “Oh! as to your poor brother William, Heaven only knows what he has or has
                        not discovered!—Now, Helen, this conversation becomes undesirable. You’ve
                        asked innumerable questions about your cousin. Go and make acquaintance with
                        him. I’m the best of mothers of course, but, at times, I really can do quite
                        well without you.”
                    Now surely this was a day of good fortune, for again Dickie had his desire.
                        And a most surprisingly pretty, little desire it proved—seductive even,
                        deliciously finished in person and in manner. The boy gazed at the girl’s
                        small hands and small, daintily shod feet, at the small, lovely, pink and
                        white face set in a cloud of golden?brown hair, at the innocent, blue eyes,
                        at the mouth with upturned corners to it. Richard was not of age to remark
                        the eyes were rather light in colour, the lips rather thin. The exquisite
                        refinement of the girl’s whole person delighted him. She was delicate as a
                        miniature, as a figure carved in ivory. She was like his uncle Roger, when
                        she was silent and still. She was like—oh, poor Dick!—some bright glancing,
                        small, saucy bird when she spoke and her voice had those clear, flute tones
                        in it.
                    “Since you did not come to me, I had to come to you,” she said. “I have
                        wanted so much to see you. I had heard about you at home, in Paris.”
                    “Heard about me?” Dickie repeated, flattered and surprised. “But won’t you
                        sit down? Look—that little chair. I can reach.”
                    And leaning sideways he stretched out his hand. But his finger?tips barely
                        touched the top rail. Richard flushed.—“I’m awfully sorry,” he said, “but I
                        am afraid—it isn’t heavy—I must let you get it yourself.”
                    
                    The girl, who had watched him intently, her hands clasped, gave a little
                        sigh. Then the corners of her mouth turned up as she smiled. A delightful
                        dimple showed in her right cheek.
                    “But, of course,” she replied, “I will get it.”
                    She settled herself beside him, folded her hands, crossed her feet, exposing
                        a long length of fine, open?work, silk stocking.
                    “I desired enormously to see you,” she continued. “But when you came in I
                        grew shy. It is so with one sometimes.”
                    “You should use your influence, Lady Calmady,” Mr. Cathcart was saying.
                        “Unquestionably the condition of the workhouse is far from satisfactory. And
                        Fallowfeild is too lenient. That laisser?aller policy of his threatens to land us in serious
                        difficulties. The place is insanitary, and the food is unnecessarily poor. I
                        am not an advocate for extravagance, but I cannot bear to see discomfort
                        which might be avoided. Fallowfeild is the most kind?hearted of men, but he
                        has a fatal habit of believing what people tell him. And those workhouse
                        officials have got round him. The whole matter ought to be subjected to the
                        strictest investigation.”
                    “It is very nice of you to have wanted so much to see me,” Dickie said. His
                        eyes were softly bright.
                    “Oh! but one always wants to see those who are talked about. It is a
                        privilege to have them for one’s relations.”
                    “But—but—I’m not talked about?” the boy put in, somewhat startled.
                    “But certainly. You are so rich. You have this superb château. You are”—she
                        put her head on one side with a pretty, saucy, birdlike movement—“enfin,” she said, “I had the greatest curiosity
                        to make your acquaintance. I shall tell all my young friends at the convent
                        about this visit. I promised them that, as soon as mama said we should
                        probably come here. The good sisters also are interested. I shall recount a
                        whole history of this beautiful castle, and of you, and your”—
                    She paused, clasped her hands, looking away at her mother, then sideways at
                        Richard, bowing her little person backwards and forwards, laughing softly
                        all the while. And her laughing face was extraordinarily pretty under the
                        shade of her broad?brimmed hat.
                    “It is a great misfortune we stay so short a time,” she continued. “I shall
                        not see the half of all that I wish to see.”
                    Then an heroic plan of action occurred to Richard. The daring engendered by
                        his recent act of disobedience was still active in him. He was in the humour
                        to attempt the impossible. He longed, moreover, to give this delectable
                        little person pleasure. He was willing
                        even to sacrifice a measure of personal dignity in her service.
                    “Oh! but if you care so much, I—I will show you the house,” he said.
                    “Will you?” she cried, “You and I alone together? But that is precisely what
                        I want. It would be ravishing.”
                    Poor Dickie’s heart misgave him slightly; but he summoned all his resolution.
                        He threw off the concealing rug.
                    “I—I walk very slowly, I’m afraid,” he said rather huskily, looking up at
                        her, while in his expression appeal mingled pathetically with defiant
                        pride.
                    “But, so much the better,” she replied. “We shall be the longer together. I
                        shall have the more to observe, to recount.”
                    She was on her feet. She hovered round him, birdlike, intent on his every
                        movement.
                    Meanwhile the sound of conversation rose continuous. Lady Calmady, calling to
                        Julius, had moved away to the great writing?table in the farther window.
                        Together they searched among a pile of papers for a letter of Dr. Knott’s,
                        embodying his scheme of the new hospital at Westchurch. Mr. Cathcart stood
                        by, expounding his views on the subject.
                    “Of course a considerable income can be derived from letters of
                        recommendation,” he was saying, “in?patient and out?patient tickets. The
                        clergy come in there. They cannot be expected to give large donations. It
                        would be unreasonable to expect that of them.”
                    Mademoiselle de Mirancourt, Mrs. Cathcart, and Mary, had drawn their chairs
                        together. The two elder ladies spoke with a subdued enthusiasm, discussing
                        pleasant details of the approaching wedding, which promised the younger lady
                        so glad a future. Mrs. Ormiston chattered; while Ormiston, listening to her,
                        gazed away down the green length of the elm avenue, beyond the square lawn
                        and pepper?pot summer?houses, and pitied men who made such mistakes in the
                        matter of matrimony as his brother William obviously had. The rose of the
                        sunset faded in the west. Bats began to flit forth, hawking against the
                        still?warm house?walls for flies.
                    And so, unobserved, Dickie slipped out of the security of his arm?chair, and
                        rose to that sadly deficient full height of his. He was nervous, and this
                        rendered his balance more than ever uncertain. He shuffled forward,
                        steadying himself by a piece of furniture here and there in passing, until
                        he reached the wide open space before the door on to the stair?head. And
                            it required some fortitude to cross
                        this space, for here was nothing to lay hold of for support.
                    Little Helen Ormiston had kept close beside him so far. Now she drew back,
                        leaving him alone. Leaning against a table, she watched his laborious
                        progress. Then a fit of uncontrollable laughter took her. She flew half?way
                        across to the oriel?window, her voice ringing out clear and gay, though
                        broken by bursts of irrepressible merriment.
                    “Regardez, regardez donc, Maman! Ma bonne m’avait dit
                            qu’il était un avorton, et que ce serait très amusant de le voir. Elle
                            m’a conseiller de lui faire marcher.”
                    She darted back, and clapping her hands upon the bosom of her charming frock,
                        danced, literally danced and pirouetted around poor Dickie.
                    “Moi, je ne comprenais pas ce que c’était qu’un
                            avorton,” she continued rapidly. “Mais je comprends parfaitement
                            maintenant. C’est un monstre, n’est?ce pas, Maman?”
                    She threw back her head, her white throat convulsed by laughter.
                    “Ah! Mon Dieu, qu’il est drôle!” she cried.
                    Silence fell on the whole room, for sight and words alike were paralysing in
                        their grotesque cruelty. Ormiston was the first to speak. He laid his hand
                        somewhat roughly on his sister?in?law’s shoulder.
                    “For God’s sake, stop this, Charlotte,” he said. “Take the girl away. Little
                        brute,” he added, under his breath, as he went hastily across to poor
                        Dick.
                    But Lady Calmady had been beforehand with him. She swept across the room,
                        flinging aside the dainty, dancing figure as she passed. All the primitive
                        fierceness, the savage tenderness, of her motherhood surged up within her.
                        Katherine was in the humour to kill just then, had killing been possible.
                        She was magnificently regardless of consequences, regardless of
                        conventionalities, regardless of every obligation save that of sheltering
                        her child. She cowered down over Richard, putting her arms about him,
                        knew—without question or answer—that he had heard and understood. Then
                        gathering him up against her, she stood upright, facing them all, brother,
                        sister, old and tried friends, a terrible expression in her eyes, the boy’s
                        face pressed down upon her shoulder. For the moment she appeared alienated
                        from, and at war with, even Julius, even Marie de Mirancourt. No love,
                        however faithful, could reach her. She was alone, unapproachable, in her
                        immense anger and immense sense of outrage.
                    
                    “I will ask you to go,” she said to her sister?in?law,—“to go and take your
                        daughter with you, and to enter this house no more.”
                    Mrs. Ormiston did not reply. Even her chatter was for the moment stilled. She
                        pressed a handkerchief against the little dancer’s forehead, and it was
                        stained with blood.
                    “Ah! she is a wicked woman!” wailed the child. “She has hurt me. She threw me
                        against the table. Maman quel malheur ça se verra.
                            Il y aura certainement une cicatrice!”
                    “Nonsense,” Ormiston said harshly. “It’s nothing, Kitty, the merest
                        scratch.”
                    “Yes, my dear, we will have the carriage at once,”—this from Mr. Cathcart to
                        his wife. The incident, from all points of view, shocked his sense of
                        propriety. Immediate retirement became his sole object.
                    Lady Calmady moved away, carrying the boy. She trembled a little. He was
                        heavy. Moreover, she sickened at the sight of blood. But little Helen
                        Ormiston caught at her dress, and looked up at her.
                    “I hate you,” she said, hissing the words out with concentrated passion
                        between her pretty even teeth. “You have spoilt me. I will hate you always,
                        when I grow up. I will never forget.”
                    Alone in the great state?bedroom next door, a long time elapsed before either
                        Richard or Katherine spoke. The boy leaned back against the sofa cushions,
                        holding his mother’s hand. The casements stood wide open, and little winds
                        laden with the scent of the hawthorns in the park wandered in, gently
                        stirring the curtains of the ebony bed, so that the Trees of the Forest of
                        This Life, thereon embroidered, appeared somewhat mournfully to wave their
                        branches, while the Hart fled forward and the Leopard, relentless in
                        perpetual pursuit, followed close behind. There was a crunching of wheels on
                        the gravel, a sound of hurried farewells. Then in a minute or two more the
                        evening quiet held its own again.
                    Suddenly Dickie flung himself down across Katherine’s lap, his poor body
                        shaken by a tempest of weeping.
                    “Mother, I can’t bear it—I can’t bear it,” he sobbed. “Tell me, does
                        everybody do that?”
                    “Do what, my own precious?” she said, calm from very excess of sorrow. Later
                        she would weep too, in the dark, lying lonely in the cold comfort of that
                        stately bed.
                    “Laugh at me, mother, mock at me?” and his voice, for all that he tried to
                        control it, tore at his throat and rose almost to a shriek.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI
                    DEALING WITH A PHYSICIAN OF THE BODY AND A PHYSICIAN OF THE
                        SOUL
                    HISTORY repeats itself, and to Katherine just now came most
                        unwelcome example of such repetition. She had foreseen that some such crisis
                        must arise as had arisen. Yet when it arose, the crisis proved none the less
                        agonising because of that foreknowledge. Two strains of feeling struggled
                        within her. A blinding sorrow for her child, a fear of and shame at her own
                        violence of anger. Katherine’s mind was of an uncompromising honesty. She
                        knew that her instinct had, for a space at least, been murderous. She knew
                        that, given equal provocation, it would be murderous again.
                    And this was, after all, but the active, objective aspect of the matter. The
                        passive and subjective aspect showed danger also. In her extremity
                        Katherine’s soul cried out for God—for the sure resting?place only to be
                        found by conscious union of the individual with the eternal will. But such
                        repose was denied her. For her anger against God, even while thus earnestly
                        desiring Him, was even more profound than her anger against man. The passion
                        of those terrible early days when her child’s evil fortune first became
                        known to her—held in check all these years by constant employment and the
                        many duties incident to her position—returned upon her in its first force.
                        To believe God is not, leaves the poor human soul homeless, sadly desolate,
                        barren in labour as is a slave. But the sorrow of such belief is but a
                        trifle beside the hideous fear that God is careless and unjust, that virtue
                        is but a fond imagination of all?too?noble human hearts, that the
                        everlasting purpose is not good but evil continually. And, haunted by such
                        fears, Katherine once again sat in outer darkness. All gracious things
                        appeared to her as illusions; all gentle delights but as passing anodynes
                        with which, in his misery, man weakly tries to deaden the pain of existence.
                        She suffered a profound discouragement.
                    And so it seemed to her but as part of the cruel whole when history repeated
                        itself yet further, and Dr. Knott, pausing at the door of Richard’s bedroom,
                        turned and said to her:—
                    “It will be better, you know, Lady Calmady, to let him face it alone. He’ll
                        feel it less without you. Winter can give me all the assistance I want.”
                        Then he added, a queer smile playing about
                        his loose lips:—“ Don’t be afraid. I’ll handle him very gently. Probably I
                        shan’t hurt him at all—certainly not much.”
                    “Ah!” Katherine said, under her breath.
                    “You see it is done by his own wish,” John Knott went on.
                    “I know,” she answered.
                    She respected and trusted this man, entertained for him, notwithstanding his
                        harsh speech and uncouth exterior, something akin to affection. Yet
                        remembering the part he had played in the fate of the father, it was very
                        dreadful to her that he should touch the child. And Dr. Knott read her
                        thought. He did not resent it. It was all natural enough! From his heart he
                        was sorry for her, and would have spared her had that been possible. But he
                        discriminated very clearly between primary and secondary issues, never
                        sacrificing, as do feeble and sentimental persons, the former to the latter.
                        In this case the boy had a right to the stage, and so the mother must stand
                        in the wings. John Knott possessed a keen sense of values in the human drama
                        which the exigencies of his profession so perpetually presented to him. He
                        waited quietly, his hand on the door?handle, looking at Katherine from under
                        his shaggy eyebrows, silently opposing his will to hers.
                    Suddenly she turned away with an impatient gesture.
                    “I will not come with you,” she said.
                    “You are right.”
                    “But—but—do you think you can really do anything to help him, to make him
                        happier?” Katherine asked, a desperation in the tones of her voice.
                    “Happier? Yes, in the long?run, because certainty of whatever kind, even
                        certainty of failure, makes eventually for peace of mind.”
                    “That is a hard saying.”
                    “This is a hard world.”—Dr. Knott looked down at the floor, shrugging his
                        unwieldy shoulders. “The sooner we learn to accept that fact the better,
                        Lady Calmady. I know it is sharp discipline, but it saves time and money,
                        let alone disappointment.—Now as to all these elaborate contrivances I’ve
                        brought down from London, they’re the very best of their kind. But I am
                        bound to own the most ingenious of such arrangements are but clumsy remedies
                        for natural deficiency. Man hasn’t discovered how to make over his own body
                        yet, and never will. The Almighty will always have the whip?hand of us when
                        it comes to dealing with flesh and blood. All the same we’ve got to try
                        these legs and things”—
                    Katherine winced, pressing her lips together. It was brutal, surely, to speak so plainly? But John Knott went
                        on quietly, commiserating her inwardly, yet unswerving in common sense.
                    “Try ’em every one, and so convince Sir Richard one way or the other. This is
                        a turning?point. So far his general health has been remarkably good, and
                        we’ve just got to set our minds to keeping it good. He must not fret if we
                        can help it. If he frets, instead of developing into the sane, manly fellow
                        he should, he may turn peevish, Lady Calmady, and grow up a morbid, neurotic
                        lad, the victim of all manner of brain?sick fancies—become envious,
                        spiteful, a misery to others and to himself.”
                    “Is it necessary to say all this?” Katherine asked loftily.
                    Dr. Knott’s eyes looked very straight into hers, and there were tears in
                        them.
                    “Indeed, I believe it is,” he replied, “or, trust me, I wouldn’t say it. I
                        take no pleasure in giving pain at this time of day, whether mental or
                        physical. All I want is to spare pain. But one must sacrifice the present to
                        the future, at times, you know?use the knife to save the limb. Now I must go
                        to my patient. It isn’t fair to keep him waiting any longer. I’ll be as
                        quick as I can. I suppose I shall find you here when I’ve finished?”
                    As he opened the door Dr. Knott’s heavy person showed in all its ungainliness
                        against the brightness of sunlight flooding Dickie’s room. And to Katherine
                        he seemed hideous just then—inexorable in his great common sense, in the
                        dead weight of his personality and of his will, as some power of nature. He
                        was to her the incarnation of things as they are—not things as they should
                        be, not things as she so passionately desired they might be. He represented
                        rationalism as against miracle, intellect as against imagination, the bitter
                        philosophy of experience as against that for which all mortals so
                        persistently cry out—namely the all?consoling promise of extravagant hope.
                        As with chains he bound her down to fact. Right home on her he pressed the
                        utter futility of juggling with the actual. From the harsh truth that,
                        neither in matters practical nor spiritual, is any redemption without
                        shedding of blood he permitted her no escape.
                    And all this Katherine’s clear brain recognised and admitted, even while her
                        poor heart only rebelled the more madly. To be convinced is not to be
                        reconciled. And so she turned away from that closed door in a veritable
                        tempest of feeling, and went out into the Chapel?Room. It was safer, her
                        mind and heart thus working, to put a space between herself and that closed
                        door.
                    Just then Julius March crossed the room, coming in from the stair?head. The
                        austere lines of his cassock emphasised the height and emaciation of his figure. His appearance offered a marked
                        contrast to that of the man with whom Katherine had just parted. His
                        occupation offered a marked contrast also. He carried a gold chalice and
                        paten, and his head was bowed reverentially above the sacred vessels. His
                        eyes were downcast, and the dull pallor of his face and of his long, thin
                        hands was very noticeable. He did not look round, but passed silently, still
                        as a dream, into the chapel. Katherine paced the width of the great room,
                        turned and paced back and forth again some half?dozen times, before he
                        emerged from the chapel door. In her present humour she did not want him,
                        yet she resented his abstraction. The physician of the soul, like the
                        physician of the body, appeared to her lamentably devoid of power to sustain
                        and give comfort at the present juncture.
                    This, it so happened, was one of those days when the mystic joy of his
                        priestly office held Julius March forcibly. He had ministered to others, and
                        his own soul was satisfied. His expression was exalted, his short?sighted
                        eyes were alive with inward light. Tired and worn, there was still a
                        remarkable suavity in his bearing. He had come forth from the holy of
                        holies, and the vision beheld there dwelt with him yet.
                    Meanwhile, brooding storm sat on Katherine’s brow, on her lips, dwelt in her
                        every movement. And something of this Julius perceived, for his devotion to
                        her was intact, as was his self?abnegation. Throughout all these years he
                        had never sought to approach her more closely. His attitude had remained as
                        delicately scrupulous, untouched by worldliness, or by the baser part of
                        passion, as in the first hour of the discovery of his love. Her near
                        presence gave him exquisite pleasure; but, save when she needed his
                        assistance in some practical matter, he refused to indulge himself by
                        passing much time in her society. Abstinence still remained his rule of
                        life. Just now, however, strong with the mystic strength of his late
                        ministrations and perceiving her troubled state, he permitted himself to
                        remain and pace beside her.
                    “You have been out all day?” Katherine said.
                    “Yes, I stayed on to the end with Rebecca Light. They sent for me early this
                        morning. She passed away very peacefully in that little attic at the new
                        lodge looking out into the green heart of the woods.”
                    “Ah! It’s simple enough to die,” Katherine said, “being old. The difficult
                        thing is to live, being still young.”
                    “Has my absence been inconvenient? Have you wanted me?” Julius asked.—Those
                        quiet hours spent in the humble 
                        death?chamber suddenly appeared to him as an act of possible
                        selfishness.
                    “Oh no!” she answered bitterly. “Why should I want you Have I not sent Roger
                        and Mary away? Am I not secretly glad dear Marie de Mirancourt is just
                        sufficiently poorly to remain in her room? When the real need comes—one
                        learns that among all the other merciless lessons—one is best by
                        oneself.”
                    For a while, only the whisper of Lady Calmady’s skirts, the soft, even tread
                        of feet upon the thick carpet. Then she said, almost sharply:—
                    “Dr. Knott is with Richard.”
                    “Ah! I understand,” Julius murmured.
                    But Lady Calmady took up his words with a certain heat.
                    “No, you do not understand. You none of you understand, and that is why I am
                        better by myself. Mary and Roger in their happiness, dear Marie in her
                        saintly resignation, and you”—Katherine turned her head, smiled at him in
                        lovely scorn—“you, my dear Julius, of all men, what should you know of the
                        bitter pains of motherhood, you who are too good to be quite human, you who
                        regard this world merely as the antechamber of paradise, you, whose whole
                        affection is set on your Church—your God—how should you understand? Between
                        my experience and yours there is a very wide interval. How can you know what
                        I suffer—you who have never loved?”
                    Under the stress of her excitement Katherine’s pace quickened. The whisper of
                        her skirts grew to a soft rush. Julius kept beside her. His head was bent
                        reverently, even as over the sacred vessels he had so lately carried.
                    “I too have loved,” he said at last.
                    Katherine stopped short, and looked at him incredulously.
                    “Really, Julius?” she said.
                    Raising his head, he looked back at her. This avowal gave him a strange sense
                        of completeness and mastery. So he allowed his eyes to meet Katherine’s, he
                        allowed himself to reckon with her grace and beauty.
                    “Very really,” he answered.
                    “But when?”
                    “Long ago—and always.”
                    “Ah!” she said. Her expression had changed. Brooding storm no longer sat on
                        her brow and lips. She was touched. For the moment the weight of her
                        personal distress was lifted. Dickie and Dr. Knott together in that
                        bed?chamber, experimenting with unlovely, mechanical devices for aiding
                            locomotion and concealing the
                        humiliation of deformity, were almost forgotten. To those who have once
                        loved, love must always supremely appeal. Julius appeared to her in a new
                        aspect. She felt she had done him injustice. She placed her hand on his arm
                        with a movement of apology and tenderness. And the man grew faint, trembled,
                        feeling her hand, seeing it lie white and fair on the sleeve of his black
                        cassock. Since childhood it was the first, the solitary, caress he had
                        received.
                    “Pardon me, dear Julius,” she said. “I must have pained you at times, but I
                        did not know this. I always supposed you coldly indifferent to those
                        histories of the heart which mean so much to some of us; supposed your
                        religion held you wholly, and that you pitied us as the wise pity the
                        foolish, standing above them, looking down. Richard told me many things
                        about you, before he brought me home here, but he never told me this.”
                    “Richard never knew it,” he answered, smiling. Her perfect unconsciousness at
                        once calmed and pained him. He had kept his secret, all these years, only
                        too well.
                    Katherine turned and began to pace again, her hands clasped behind her
                        back.
                    “But, tell me—tell me,” she said. “You can trust me, you know. I will never
                        speak of this unless you speak. But if I knew, it would bring us nearer
                        together, and that would be comforting, perhaps, to us both. Tell me, what
                        happened? Did she know, and did she love you? She must have loved you, I
                        think. Then what separated you? Did she die?”
                    “No thank God she did not die,” Julius said.—He paused. He longed to gain the
                        relief of fuller confession, yet feared to betray himself. “I believe she
                        loved me truly as a friend—and that was sufficient.”
                    “Oh no, no!” Katherine cried. “Do not decline upon sophistries. That is never
                        sufficient.”
                    “In one sense, yes—in another sense, no,” Julius said. “It was thus. I loved
                        her exactly as she was. Had she loved me as I loved her she would have
                        become other than she was.”
                    “Ah! but surely you are too ingenious, too fastidious!” Katherine’s voice
                        took tones of delicate remonstrance and pleading. “That would be your
                        danger, in such a case. Le mieux est l’ennemi du
                            bien, and you would always risk sacrificing the real to the
                        ideal. I am sorry. I would like you to have tasted the fulness of life. Even
                        though the days of perfect joy are very few, it is well to have had
                        them”—
                    She threw back her head, her eyebrows drew together, and her face darkened
                        somewhat.
                    
                    “Yes, it is well to have had them, though the memory of them cuts one to the
                        very quick.”—Then her manner changed again, gaining a touch of gaiety.
                        “Really I am very unselfish in wishing all this otherwise,” she said, “for
                        it would have been a sore trial to part with you. I cannot imagine
                        Brockhurst without you. I should have been in great straits deprived of my
                        friend and counsellor. And yet, I would like you to have been very happy,
                        dear Julius.”
                    Their pacing had just brought them to the arched doorway of the chapel.
                        Katherine stopped, and raising her arm leaned her hand against the stone
                        jamb of it above her head.
                    “See,” she went on, “I want to be truly unselfish. I know how generous you
                        are. Perhaps you remain here out of all too great kindness towards my poor
                        Dick and me. You mustn’t do that, Julius. You say she is still living.
                        Consider—is it too late?”
                    Was it indeed too late? All the frustrated manhood cried aloud in Julius
                        March. He covered his face with his hands. His carefully restrained
                        imagination ran riot, presenting enchantments.
                    And Katherine, watching him, found herself strangely moved. For it was very
                        startling to see this so familiar figure under so unfamiliar an aspect—to
                        see Julius March, her every?day companion and assistant, his reticence, his
                        priestly aloofness, his mild and courtly calm, swept under by a tide of
                        personal emotion. Lady Calmady was drawn to him by deepened sympathy. Yet
                        regret arose in her that this man proved to be, after all, but as other men
                        are. She was vaguely disappointed, having derived more security than she had
                        quite realised from his apparent detachment and impassibility. And, as an
                        indirect consequence, her revolt against God suffered access of bitterness.
                        For not only was He—to her seeing—callous regarding the fate of the many,
                        but He failed to support those few most devoted to His cause. In the hour of
                        their trial He was careless even of His own elect.
                    “Ah! I think it is indeed by no means too late!” she exclaimed.
                    Julius March let his hands drop at his sides. He gazed at her, and her
                        expression was of wistful mockery—compassionate rather than ironical. Then
                        he looked away down the length of the chapel. In the warm afternoon light,
                        the solid and rich brown of the arcaded stalls on either hand, emphasised
                        the harmonious radiance of the great, east window, a radiance as of clear
                        jewels.—Ranks of kneeling saints, the gold of whose orioles rose in an upward curve. to the
                        majestic image of the Christ in the central light—a Christ risen and
                        glorified, enthroned, His feet shining forever upon heaven’s sapphire floor.
                        Before the altar hung three, silver?gilt lamps of Italian workmanship, in
                        the crimson cup of each of which it had so long been Julius’s pleasure to
                        keep the tongue of flame constantly alive. The habits of a lifetime are not
                        hastily set aside. Gazing on these things, his normal attitude returned to
                        him. Not that which he essentially was but that which, by long and careful
                        training of every thought, every faculty, he had become, authoritatively
                        claimed him. His eyes fell from contemplation of the glories of the window
                        to that of the long, straight folds of the cassock which clothed him. It was
                        hardly the garb in which a man goes forth to woo! Then he looked at Lady
                        Calmady—she altogether seductive in her innocence and in her wistful mockery
                        as she leaned against the jamb of the door.
                    “You are mistaken, dear Katherine,” he said. “It has always been too
                        late.”
                    “But why—why—if she is free to listen?”
                    “Because I am not free to speak.”
                    Julius smiled at her. His suavity had returned, and along with it a dignity
                        of bearing not observable before.
                    “Let us walk,” he said. And then:—“After all I have given you a very
                        mutilated account of this matter. Soon after I took orders, before I had
                        ever seen the very noble, to me perfect, woman who unconsciously revealed to
                        me the glory of human love, I had dedicated my life, and all my powers—poor
                        enough, I fear—of mind and body to the service of the Church. I was
                        ambitious in those days. Ambition is dead, killed by the knowledge of my own
                        shortcomings. I have proved an unprofitable servant—for which may God in His
                        great mercy forgive me. But, while my faith in myself has withered, my faith
                        in Him has come to maturity. I have learned to think very differently on
                        many subjects, and to perceive that our Heavenly Father’s purposes regarding
                        us are more generous, more far?reaching, more august, than in my youthful
                        ignorance I had ever dreamed. All things are lawful in His sight. Nothing is
                        common or unclean—if we have once rightly apprehended Him, and He dwells in
                        us. And yet—yet, a vow once made is binding. We may not do evil to gain
                        however great a good.”
                    Katherine listened in silence. The words came with the power of immutable
                        conviction. She could not believe, yet she was glad to have him believe.
                    
                    “And that vow precludes marriage?” she said at last.
                    “It does,” Julius answered.
                    For a time they paced again in silence. Then Lady Calmady spoke, a delicate
                        intimacy and affection in her manner, while once more, for a moment, she let
                        her hand rest on his arm.
                    “So Brockhurst keeps you—I keep you, dear Julius, to the last?”
                    “Yes, if you will, to the very last.”
                    “I am thankful for that,” she said. “You must forgive me if in the past I
                        have been inconsiderate at times. I am afraid the constant struggle, which
                        certain circumstances of necessity create, tends to make me harsh and
                        imperious. I carry a trouble, which calls aloud for redress, forever in my
                        arms. They ache with the burden of it. And there is no redress. And the
                        trouble grows stronger, alas! Its voice—so dear, yet so dreaded—grows
                        louder, till it deafens me to all other sounds. The music of this once
                        beautiful world becomes faint. Only angry discord remains. And I become
                        selfish. I am the victim of a fixed idea. I become heedless of the suffering
                        of those about me. And you, my poor Julius, must have suffered very
                        much!”
                    “Now, less than ever before,” he answered.—But even as he spoke, Katherine
                        was struck by his pallor, by the drawn look of his features and languor of
                        his bearing.
                    “Ah, you have fasted all day!” she cried.
                    “What matter?” he said, smiling. “The body surely can sustain a trifle of
                        hunger, if the soul and spirit are fed. I have feasted royally to?day in
                        that respect. I am strangely at ease. As to baser sort of food, what wonder
                        if I forgot?”
                    The door of Dickie’s bed?chamber opened, letting in long shafts of sunlight,
                        and Dr. Knott came slowly forward. His aspect was savage. Even his
                        philosophy had been not wholly proof against the pathos of his patient’s
                        case. It irritated him to fall from his usual relentlessness of common sense
                        into a melting mood. He took refuge in sarcasm, desirous to detect weakness
                        in others, since he was, unwillingly, so disagreeably conscious of it in
                        himself.
                    “Well, we’re through with our business, Lady Calmady,” he said.—“Eh! Mr.
                        March, what’s wrong with you? Putty?coloured skin and shortness of breath. A
                        little less prayer and a little more physical exercise is what you want.
                        Successful, Lady Calmady?—Umph—I’m afraid the less said about that the
                        better. Sir Richard will talk it out with you himself. Upset? Yes, I don’t
                        deny he is a little upset—and, like a fool, I’m upset too. You can go to him now, Lady Calmady. Keep
                        him cheerful, please, and give him his head as much as you can.”
                    John Knott watched her as she moved away. He shrugged his shoulders and
                        thrust his hands into his breeches pockets.
                    “She’s going to hear what she won’t much relish, poor thing,” he said. “But I
                        can’t help that. One man’s meat is another man’s poison; and my affair is
                        with the boy’s meat, even if it should be of a kind to turn his mother’s
                        stomach. He shall have just all the chance I can get him, poor little
                        chap.—And now, Mr. March, I propose to prescribe for you, for you look
                        uncommonly like taking a short?cut to heaven, and, if I know anything about
                        this house, you’ve got your work cut out for you here below for a long time
                        to come. Through with this business? Pooh! we’ve only taken a preliminary
                        canter as yet. That boy’s out of the common in more ways than one, and,
                        cripple or no cripple, he’s bound to lead you all a pretty lively dance
                        before he’s done.”
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII
                    AN ATTEMPT TO MAKE THE BEST OF IT
                    THE day had been hot, though the summer was but young. A wealth of
                        steady sunlight bathed the western front of the house. All was notably
                        still, save for a droning of bees, a sound of wood?chopping, voices now and
                        again, and the squeak of a wheelbarrow away in the gardens.
                    Richard lay on his back upon the bed. He had drawn the blue embroidered
                        coverlet up about his waist; but his silk shirt was thrown open, exposing
                        his neck and chest. His arms were flung up and out across the pillow on
                        either side his gold?brown, close?curled head. As his mother entered he
                        turned his face towards the open window. There was vigour and distinction in
                        the profile—in the straight nose, full chin, and strong line of the lower
                        jaw, in the round, firm throat, and small ear set close against the head.
                        The muscles of his neck and arms were well developed. Seen thus, lying in
                        the quiet glow of the afternoon sunshine, all possibility of physical
                        disgrace seemed far enough from Richard Calmady. He might indeed, not
                        unfitly, have been compared to one of those nobly graceful lads, who, upon
                        the frieze of some Greek temple, set forth forever the perfect pattern of
                        temperance and high courage, of youth and health.
                    
                    As Katherine sat down beside the bed, Richard thrust out his left hand. She
                        took it in both hers, held and stroked the palm of it. But for a time she
                        could not trust herself to speak. For she saw that, notwithstanding the
                        resolute set of his lips, his breath caught in short quick sobs and that his
                        eyelashes were glued in points by late shed tears. And, seeing this,
                        Katherine’s motherhood arose and confronted her with something of reproach.
                        It seemed to her she had been guilty of disloyalty in permitting her thought
                        to be beguiled even for the brief space of her conversation with Julius
                        March. She felt humbled, a little in Dickie’s debt, since she had not
                        realised to the uttermost each separate moment of his trial as each of those
                        moments passed.
                    “My darling, I am afraid Dr. Knott has hurt you very much?” she said at
                        last.
                    “Oh! I don’t know. I suppose he did hurt. He pulled me about awfully, but I
                        didn’t mind that. I told him to keep on till he made sure,” Richard answered
                        huskily, still turning his face from her. “But none of those beastly legs
                        and things fitted. He could not fix them so that I could use them. It was
                        horrid. They only made me more helpless than before. You see—my—my feet are
                        in the way.”
                    The last words came to Katherine as a shock. The boy had never spoken openly
                        of his deformity, and in thus speaking he appeared to her to rend asunder
                        the last of those veils with which she had earnestly striven to conceal the
                        disgrace of it from him. She remained very still, bracing herself to
                        bear—the while slowly stroking his hand. Suddenly the strong, young fingers
                        closed hard on hers. Richard turned his head.
                    “Mother,” he said, “the doctor can’t do anything for me. It’s no use. We’ve
                        just got to let it be.”
                    He set his teeth, choking a little, and drew the back of his right hand
                        across his eyes.
                    “It’s awfully stupid; but somehow I never knew I should mind so much. I—I
                        never did mind much till just lately. It began—the minding, I mean—the day
                        Uncle Roger came home. It was the way he looked at me, and hearing about
                        things he’d done. And I had a beastly dream that night. And it’s all grown
                        worse since.”
                    He paused a minute, making a strong effort to speak steadily.
                    “I suppose it’s silly to mind. I ought to be accustomed to it by this time.
                        I’ve never known anything else. But I never thought of all it meant
                        and—and—how it looked to other people till
                        Helen was here and wanted me to show her the house. I supposed everyone
                        would take it for granted, as you all do here at home. And then I’d a hope
                        Dr. Knott might find a way to hide it and so help me. But—but he can’t. That
                        hope’s quite gone.”
                    “My own darling,” Katherine murmured.
                    “Yes, please say that!” he cried, looking up eagerly. “I am your darling,
                        mother, am I not, just the same? Dr. Knott said something about you just
                        now. He’s an awfully fine old chap. I like him. He talked to me for a long
                        time after we’d sent Winter away, and he was ever so kind. And he told me it
                        was bad. for you too, you know—for both of us. I’m afraid I had not thought
                        much about that before. I’ve been thinking about it since. And I began to be
                        afraid that—that I might be a nuisance,—that you might be ashamed of me,
                        later, when I am grown up—since I’ve always got to be like this, you
                        see.”
                    The boy’s voice broke.
                    “Mother, mother, you’ll never despise me, whoever does, will you?” he
                        sobbed.
                    And it seemed to Lady Calmady that now she must have touched bottom in this
                        tragedy. There could surely be no farther to go? It was well that her mood
                        was soft, that for a little while she had ceased to be under the dominion of
                        her so sadly fixed idea. In talking with Julius March she had been reminded
                        how constant a quantity is sorrow; how real, notwithstanding their silence,
                        are many griefs; how strong is human patience. And this indirectly had
                        fortified her. Wrung with anguish for the boy, she yet was calm. She knelt
                        down by the bedside and put her arms round him.
                    “Most precious one—listen,” she said. “You must never ask me such a question
                        again. I am your mother—you cannot measure all that implies, and so you
                        cannot measure the pain your question causes me. Only you must believe,
                        because I tell it you, that your mother’s love will never grow old or wear
                        thin.
                    It is always there, always fresh, always ready. In utter security you can
                        come back to it again and again. It is like one of those clear springs in
                        the secret places of the deep woods—you know them—which bubble up forever.
                        Drink, often as you may, however heavy the drought or shrunken the streams
                        elsewhere, those springs remain full to the very lip.”—Her tone changed,
                        taking a tender playfulness. “Why, my Dickie, you are the light of my eyes,
                        my darling, the one thing which makes me still care to live. You are your
                        father’s gift to me. And so every kiss you
                        give me, every pretty word you say to me, is treasured up for his, as well
                        as for your own, dear sake.”
                    She leaned back, laid her head on the pillow beside his, cheek to cheek.
                        Katherine was a young woman still—young enough to have moments of delicate
                        shyness in the presence of her son. She could not look at him now as she
                        spoke.
                    “You know, dearest, if I could take your bodily misfortune upon me, here,
                        directly, and give you my wholeness, I would do it more readily, with
                        greater thankfulness and delight than I have ever done anything in”—
                    But Richard raised his hand and laid it, almost violently, upon her
                        mouth.
                    “Oh, stop, mother, stop!” he cried. “Don’t—it’s too dreadful to think
                        of.”
                    He flung away, and lay at as far a distance as the width of the bed would
                        allow, gazing at her in angry protest.
                    “You can’t do that. But you don’t suppose I’d let you do it even if you
                        could,” he said fiercely. Then he turned his face to the sunny western
                        window again.—“I like to know that you’re beautiful anyhow, mother, all—all
                        over,” he said.
                    There followed a long silence between them. Lady Calmady still knelt by the
                        bedside. But she drew herself up, rested her elbows on the bed and clasped
                        her hands under her chin. And as she knelt there something of proud comfort
                        came to her. For so long she had sickened, fearing the hour when Richard
                        should begin clearly to gauge the extent of his own ill?luck; yet, now the
                        first shock of plain speech over, she experienced relief. For the future
                        they could be honest, she and he,—so she thought,—and speak heart to heart.
                        Moreover, in his so bitter distress, it was to her—not to Mary, his good
                        comrade, not to Roger Ormiston, the Ulysses of his fancy—that the boy had
                        turned. He was given back to her, and she was greatly gladdened by that. She
                        was gladdened too by Richard’s last speech, by his angry and immediate
                        repudiation of the bare mention of any personal gain which should touch her
                        with loss. Katherine’s eyes kindled as she knelt there watching her son. For
                        it was very much to find him thus chivalrous, hotly sensitive of her beauty
                        and the claims of her womanhood. In instinct, in thought, in word, he had
                        shown himself a very gallant, high?bred gentleman—child though he was. And
                        this gave Katherine not only proud comfort in the present, but cheered the
                        future with hope.
                    “Look here, Dickie darling,” she said softly at last, “tell me a little more
                        about your talk with Dr. Knott.”
                    “Oh! he was awfully kind,” Richard answered, turning towards her again, while his face brightened. “He
                        said some awfully jolly things to me.”
                    The boy put out his hand and began playing with the bracelets on Katherine’s
                        wrists. He kept his eyes fixed on them as he fingered them.
                    “He told me I was very strong and well made—except, of course, for it. And
                        that I was not to imagine myself ill or invalidy, because I’m really less
                        ill than most people, you know. And—and he said—you won’t think me foolish,
                        mother, if I tell you?—he said I was a very handsome fellow.”
                    Richard glanced up quickly, while his colour deepened.
                    “Am I really handsome?” he asked.
                    Katherine smiled at him.
                    “Yes, you are very handsome, Dickie. You have always been that. You were a
                        beautiful baby, a beautiful little child. And now, every day, you grow more
                        like your father. I can’t quite talk about him, my dear—but ask Uncle
                        Roger—ask Marie de Mirancourt what he was when she knew him first.”
                    The boy’s face flashed back her smile, as the sea does the sunlight.
                    “Oh, I say, but that’s good news!” he said. He lay quite still on his back
                        for a little while, thinking about it.
                    “That seems to give one a shove, you know,” he remarked presently. Then he
                        fell to playing with her bracelets again. “After all, I’ve got a good many
                        shoves to?day, mother. Dr. Knott’s a regular champion shover. He told me
                        about a number of people he’d known who had got smashed up somehow, or who’d
                        always had something wrong, you know—and how they’d put a good face on it
                        and hadn’t let it interfere, but had done things just the same. And he told
                        me I’d just got to be plucky—he knew I could if I tried—and not let it
                        interfere either. He told me I mustn’t be soft, or lazy, because doing
                        things is more difficult for me than for other people. But that I’d just got
                        to put my back into it, and go in and win. And I told him I would—and you’ll
                        help me, mummy, won’t you?”
                    “Yes, darling, yes,” Lady Calmady said.
                    “I want to begin at once,” he went on hurriedly, looking hard at the
                        bracelets. “I shouldn’t like to be unkind to her, mother, but do you think
                        Clara would give me up? I don’t need a nurse now. It’s rather silly. May one
                        of the men?servants valet me? I should like Winter best, because he’s been
                        here always, and I shouldn’t feel shy with him. Would it bore you awfully to
                        speak about that now, so that he might begin to?night?”
                    
                    Lady Calmady’s brave smile grew a trifle sad. The boy was less completely
                        given back to her than she had fondly supposed. This day was after all to
                        introduce a new order. And the woman always pays. She was to pay for that
                        advance, so was the devoted handmaiden, Clara. Still the boy must have his
                        way— were it even towards a merely imagined good.
                    “Very well, dearest, I will settle it,” she answered.
                    “You don’t mind, though, mother?”
                    Katherine stroked the short, curly hair back from his forehead.
                    “I don’t mind anything that promises to make you happier, Dickie,” she said.
                        “What else did you and Dr. Knott settle—anything else?”
                    Richard waited, then he turned on his elbow and looked full and very
                        earnestly at her.
                    “Yes, mother, we did settle something more. And something that I’m afraid you
                        won’t like. But it would make me happier than anything else—it would make
                        all the difference that—that can be made, you know.”
                    He paused, his expression very firm though his lips quivered.
                    “Dr. Knott wants me to ride.”
                    Katherine drew back, stood up, threw out her hands as though to keep off some
                        actual and tangible object of offence.
                    “Not that, Richard!” she cried. “Anything in the world rather than that!”
                    He looked at her imploringly, yet with a certain determination, for the child
                        was dying fast in him and the forceful desires and intentions of youth
                        growing.
                    “Don’t say I mustn’t, mother. Pray, pray don’t, because”—
                    He left the sentence unfinished, overtaken by the old habit of obedience, yet
                        he did not lower his eyes.
                    But Lady Calmady made no response. For the moment she was outraged to the
                        point of standing apart even from her child. For a moment, even motherhood
                        went down before purely personal feeling—and this, by the irony of
                        circumstance, immediately after motherhood had made supreme confession of
                        immutability. But remembering her husband’s death, remembering the source of
                        all her child’s misfortune, it appeared to her indecent, a wanton insult to
                        all her past suffering, that such a proposition should be made to her. And,
                        in a flash of cruelly vivid perception, she knew how the boy would look on a
                        horse, the grotesque, to the vulgar wholly absurd, spectacle he must,
                        notwithstanding his beauty, necessarily present. For a moment the completeness of love failed before pride
                        touched to the very quick.
                    “But, how can you ride?” she said. “My poor child, think—how is it
                        possible?”
                    Richard sat upright, pressing his hands down on the bedclothes on either side
                        to steady himself. The colour rushed over his face and throat.
                    “It is possible, mother,” he answered resolutely, “or Dr. Knott would never
                        have talked about it. He couldn’t have been so unkind. He drew me the plan
                        of a saddle. He said I was to show it to Uncle Roger to?night. Of course it
                        won’t be easy at first, but I don’t care about that. And Chifney would teach
                        me. I know he would. He said the other day he’d make a sportsman of me
                        yet.”
                    “When did you talk with Chifney?”—Lady Calmady spoke very quietly, but there
                        was that in her tone which came near frightening the boy. It required all
                        his daring to answer honestly and at once.
                    “I talked to him the day Aunt Charlotte and Helen were here. I—I went down to
                        the stables with him and saw all the horses.”
                    “Then either you or he did very wrong,” Lady Calmady remarked.
                    “It was my fault, mother, all my fault. Chifney would have ridden on, but I
                        stopped him. Chaplin tried to prevent me. I—I told him to mind his own
                        business. I meant to go. I—I saw all the horses, and they were splendid,” he
                        added, enthusiasm gaining over fear.—“I saw the stables, and the
                        weighing?room, and everything. I never enjoyed myself so much before. I told
                        Chaplin I would tell you, because he ought not to be blamed, you know. I did
                        mean to tell you directly I came in. But all those people were
                        here.”—Richard’s face darkened. “And you remember what happened? That put
                        everything else out of my head.”—A pause. Then he said:—“Are you very
                        angry?”
                    Katherine made no reply. She moved away round the foot of the bed and stood
                        at the sunny window in silence. Bitterness of hot humiliation possessed her.
                        Heretofore, whatever her trial, she had been mistress of the situation; she
                        had reigned a queen?mother, her authority undisputed. And now it appeared
                        her kingdom was in revolt, conspiracy was rife. Richard’s will and hers were
                        in conflict; and Richard’s will must eventually obtain, since he would
                        eventually be master. Already courtiers bowed to that will. All this was in
                        her mind. And a wounding of feeling, far deeper and more intimate than
                        this—since Katherine’s nobility of character was great and the worldly
                            aspect, the greed of personal power
                        and undisputed rule, could not affect her for long. It wounded her, as a
                        slight upon the memory of the man she had so wholly loved, that this first
                        conflict between Richard and herself should turn on the question of horses
                        and the racing?stable. The irony of the position appeared unpardonable. And
                        then, the vision of poor Richard—her darling, whom she had striven so
                        jealously to shield ever since the day, over thirteen years ago, when
                        undressing her baby she had first looked upon its malformed limbs—Richard
                        riding forth for all the staring, mocking world to see, again arose before
                        her.
                    Thinking of all this, Katherine gazed out over the stately home scene—grass
                        plot and gardens, woodland and distant landscape, rich in the golden
                        splendour of steady sunshine—with smarting eyes and a sense of impotent
                        misery that wrapped her about as a burning garment. The boy was beginning to
                        go his own way. And his way was not hers. And those she had trusted were
                        disloyal, helping him to go it. Alone, in retirement, she had borne her
                        great trouble with tremendous courage. But how should she bear it under
                        changed conditions, amid publicity, gossip, comment?
                    Dickie, meanwhile, had let himself drop back against the pillows. He set his
                        teeth and waited. It was hard. An opportunity of escape from the galling
                        restraints of his infirmity had been presented to him, and his mother—his
                        mother after promise given, after the sympathy of a lifetime, his mother, in
                        whom he trusted absolutely—was unwilling he should accept it! As he lay
                        there all the desperate longing for freedom and activity that had developed
                        in him of late—all the passion for sport, for that primitive, half?savage
                        manner of life, that intimate, if somewhat brutal, relation to nature, to
                        wild creatures and to the beasts whom man by centuries of usage has broken
                        to his service, which is the special heritage of Englishmen of gentle
                        blood—sprang up in Richard, strong, all?compelling. He must have his part in
                        all this. He would not be denied. He cried out to her imperiously:—
                    “Mother, speak to me! I haven’t done anything really wrong. I’ve a right to
                        what any other boy has—as far as I can get it. Don’t you see riding is just
                        the one thing to—to make up—to make a man of me? Don’t you see that?”
                    He sat bolt upright, stretching out his arms to her in fierce appeal, while
                        the level sunshine touched his bright hair and wildly eager face.
                    “Mummy, mummy darling, don’t you see? Try to see. You can’t want to take away
                        my one chance!”
                    
                    Katherine turned at that reiterated cry, and her heart melted within her. The
                        boy was her own, bone of her bone, flesh of her flesh. From her he had life.
                        From her he had also lifelong disgrace and deprivation. Was there anything
                        then, which, he asking, she could refuse to give? She cast herself on her
                        knees beside the bed again and buried her face in the sheet.
                    “My precious one,” she sobbed, “forgive me. I am ashamed, for I have been
                        both harsh and weak. I said I would help you, and then directly I fail you.
                        Forgive me.”
                    And the boy was amazed, speechless at first, seeing her broken thus; shamed
                        in his turn by the humility of her attitude. To his young chivalry it was an
                        impiety to look upon her tears.
                    “Please don’t cry, mother,” he entreated tremulously, a childlike simplicity
                        of manner taking him.—“Don’t cry—it is dreadful. I never saw you cry
                        before.”—Then, after a pause, he added:—“And—never mind about my riding. I
                        don’t so very much care about it—really, I don’t believe I do—after
                        all.”
                    At that dear lie Katherine raised her bowed head, a wonderful sweetness in
                        her tear?stained face, tender laughter upon her lips. She drew the boy’s
                        hands on to her shoulders, clasped her hands across his extended arms, and
                        kissed him upon the mouth.
                    “No, no, my beloved, you shall ride,” she said. “You shall have your
                        saddle—twenty thousand saddles if you want them! We will talk to Uncle Roger
                        and Chifney to?night. All shall be as you wish.”
                    “But you’re not angry, mother, any more?” he asked, a little bewildered by
                        her change of tone and by the passion of her lovely looks and speech.
                    Katherine shook her head, and still that tender laughter curved her lips.
                    “No, I am never going to be angry any more—with you at least, Dick. I must
                        learn to be plucky too. A pair of us, Dickie, trying to keep up one
                        another’s pluck! Only let us go forward hand in hand, you and I, and then,
                        however desperate our doings, I at least shall be content.”
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VIII
                    TELLING, INCIDENTALLY, OF A BROKEN?DOWN POSTBOY AND A COUNTRY
                        FAIR
                    THE Brockhurst mail?phaeton waited, in the shade of the three large
                        sycamores, before Appleyard’s shop at Farley Row. A groom stood stiff and
                        straight at the horses’ heads. While upon the high driving?seat, a trifle
                        excited by the suddenness of his elevation, sat Richard. He held the reins
                        in his right hand, and stretched his left to get the cramp out of his
                        fingers. His arms ached—there was no question about it. He had never driven
                        a pair before, and the horses needed a lot of driving. For the wind was
                        gusty, piling up heavy masses of black?purple rain?cloud in the south?east.
                        It made the horses skittish and unsteady, and Dickie found it was just all
                        he could do to hold them, so that Chifney’s reiterated admonition, “Keep ’em
                        well in hand, Sir Richard,” had been not wholly easy to obey.
                    From out the open shop?door came mingled odour of new leather and of horse
                        clothing. Within Mr. Chifney delivered himself of certain orders; while
                        Appleyard—a small, fair man, thin of nose, a spot of violent colour on
                        either cheek?bone—skipped before him lamb?like, in a fury of complacent
                        intelligence. For it was not every day so notable a personage as the
                        Brockhurst trainer crossed his threshold. To Josiah Appleyard, indeed—not to
                        mention his two apprentices stretching eyes and ears from the back?shop, to
                        catch any chance word of Mr. Chifney’s conversation—it appeared as though
                        the gods very really condescended to visit the habitations of men. While
                        Mrs. Appleyard, peeping from behind the wire blind of the parlour, had—as
                        she afterwards repeatedly declared—“felt her insides turn right over,” when
                        she saw the carriage draw up. The conversation was prolonged and low?toned.
                        For the order was of a peculiar and confidential character, demanding much
                        explanation on the one part, much application on the other. It was an order,
                        in short, wholly flattering to the self?esteem of the saddler, both as
                        tribute to his social discretion and his technical skill. Thus did Josiah
                        skip lamb?like, being glad.
                    Meanwhile, Richard Calmady waited without, resting his aching arms, gazing
                        down the wide, dusty street, his senses lulled by the flutter of the
                        sycamore leaves overhead. The said street
                        offered but small matter of interest. For Farley Row is one of those
                        dead?alive, little towns on the borders of the forest land, across which
                        progress, even at the time in question, 1856, had written Ichabod in capital
                        letters. During the early years of the century some ninety odd coaches,
                        plying upon the London and Portsmouth road, would stop to change horses at
                        the White Lion in the course of each twenty?four hours. That was the golden
                        age of the Row. Horns twanged, heavy wheels rumbled, steaming teams were led
                        away, with drooping heads, into the spacious inn yard, and fresh horses
                        stepped out cheerily to take their place between the traces. The next stage
                        across Spendle Flats was known as a risky one. Legends of Claude Duval and
                        his fellow?highwaymen still haunt the woods and moors that top the long hill
                        going north?eastward. And the passengers by those ninety coaches were wont
                        to recover themselves from terrors escaped, or fortify themselves against
                        terrors to come, by plentiful libations at the bar of the handsome red?brick
                        inn. The house did a roaring trade. But now the traffic upon the great road
                        had assumed a local and altogether undemonstrative character. The coaches
                        had fallen into lumber, the spanking teams had each and all made their
                        squalid last journey to the knacker’s. And the once famous Gentlemen of the
                        Road had long lain at rest in Mother Earth’s lap—sleeping there none the
                        less peacefully because the necks of many of them had suffered a nasty rick
                        from the hangman’s rope, and because the hard?trodden pavement of the
                        prison?yard covered them.
                    The fine stables of the White Lion stood tenantless, now, from year’s end to
                        year’s end. Rats scampered, and bats squeaked in unlovely ardours of
                        courtship, about the ranges of empty stalls and cobweb?hung rafters. Yet one
                        ghost from out the golden age haunted the place still—a lean, withered,
                        bandy?legged, little stick of a man, arrayed in frayed and tarnished
                        splendour of sky?blue waist?jacket, silver lace, and jackboots—of which the
                        soles and upper leathers threatened speedy and final divorce. In all
                        weathers this bit of human wreckage—Jackie Deeds by name—might be seen
                        wandering aimlessly about the vacant yard, or seated upon the bench beside
                        the portico of the silent, bow?windowed inn, pulling at a, too often empty,
                        clay?pipe and spitting automatically.
                    Over Richard, tender?hearted as yet towards all creatures whom nature or
                        fortune had treated cavalierly, the decrepit postboy exercised a
                        fascination. One day, when driving through the Row with Mary Cathcart, he
                        had succeeded in establishing relations with Jackie Deeds through the medium
                        of a half?crown. And now, as he waited
                        beneath the rustling sycamores, it was with a sensation of quick, yet
                        half?shy, pleasure, that he saw the disreputable figure lurch out of the inn
                        yard, stand for a minute shading eyes with hand while making observations,
                        and then hobble across the street, touching the peak of a battered,
                        black?velvet cap as it advanced.
                    “Be ’e come to zee the show, sir?” the old man coughed out, peering with dim,
                        blear eyes up into the boy’s fresh face.
                    “No, we’ve come about something from Appleyard’s. I—I didn’t know there was a
                        show.”
                    “Oh! bain’t there though, Sir Richard! I tell ’e there be a prime sight of a
                        show. There be monkeys down town, and dorgs what dances on their ’inder
                        legs, and gurt iron cages chock?full er wild beastises, by what they tells
                        me.”
                    Dickie, feeling anxiously in his pockets for some coin of sufficient size to
                        be worthy of Mr. Deeds’ acceptance, ejaculated involuntarily:—“Oh! are
                        there? I’d give anything to see them.”
                    “Sixpence ’ud do most er they ’ere shows, I expect. The wild beastises ’ud
                        run into a shilling may be.”—The old postboy made a joyless, creaking sound,
                        bearing but slightest affinity to laughter. “But you ’ud see your way round
                        more’n a shilling, Sir Richard. A terrible, rich, young gentleman, by what
                        they tells me.”
                    Something a trifle malicious obtained in this attempt at jocosity, causing
                        Dickie to bend down rather hastily over the wheel, and thrust his offering
                        into the crumpled, shaky hands.
                    “There,” he said. “Oh! it’s nothing. I’m so pleased you—you don’t mind. Where
                        do you say this show is?”
                    “Gor a’mighty bless ’e, sir,” the old man whimpered, with a change of tone.
                        “Tain’t every day poor old Jackie Deeds runs across a rich, young gentleman
                        as ’ll give him ’arf a crown. Times is bad, mortal bad—couldn’t be much
                        wuss.”
                    “I’m so sorry,” Richard answered. He felt apologetic, as though in some
                        manner responsible for the decay of the coaching system and his companion’s
                        fallen estate.
                    “Mortal bad, couldn’t be no wuss.”
                    “I’m very sorry. But about the show—where is it, please?” the boy asked
                        again, a little anxious to change the subject.
                    “Oh! that there show. Tain’t much of a show neither, by what they tells
                        me.”
                    Mr. Deeds spoke with sudden irritability. Uplifted by the possession of half
                        a crown, he became contemptuous of the present, jealous of the past when
                        such coin was more plentiful with him.
                    
                    “Not much of a show,” he repeated. “The young ’uns’ll crack up most anything
                        as comes along. But that’s their stoopidness. Never zee’d nothing better.
                        Law bless ’e, this ain’t a patch on the shows I’ve a?zeen in my day.
                        Cock?fightings, and fellows—wi’ a lot er money laid on ’em by the gentry
                        too—a?pounding of each other till there weren’t an inch above the belt of
                        ’em as weren’t bloody. And the Irish giant, and dwarfs ’ad over from France.
                        They tell me most Frencheys’s made that way. Ole Boney ’isself wasn’t much
                        of a one to look at. And I can mind a calf wi’ two ’eads—’ud eat wi’ both
                        mouths at once, and all the food ’ud go down into the same belly. And a man
                        wi’ no arms, never ’ad none, by what they used to tell me”—
                    “Ah!” Richard exclaimed quickly.
                    “No, never ’ad none, and yet ’ud play the drum wi’ ’is toes and fire off a
                        horse pistol. Lor, you would er laughed to ’ave zeen ’im. ’E made fine sport
                        for the folks ’e did.”
                    Jackie Deeds had recovered his good?humour. He peered up into the boy’s face
                        again maliciously, and broke into cheerless, creaking merriment.
                    “Gor a’mighty ’as ’is jokes too,” he said. “I’m thinking, by the curous?made
                        creeturs ’e sends along sometimes.”
                    “Chifney,” Richard called imperatively. “Chifney, are you nearly ready? We
                        ought to get home. There’s a storm coming up.”
                    “Well, we shall get that matter of the saddle done right enough, Sir
                        Richard,” the trainer remarked presently, as the carriage bowled up the
                        street. “Don’t be too free with the whip, sir.—Steady, steady there.—Mind
                        the donkey?cart.—Bear away to the right. Don’t let ’em get above themselves.
                        Excuse me, Sir Richard.”
                    He leaned forward and laid both hands quietly on the reins.
                    “Look here, sir,” he said, “I think you’d better let Henry lead the horses
                        past all this variety business.”
                    The end of the street was reached. On either hand small red or white houses
                        trend away in a broken line along the edge of a flat, grass common, backed
                        by plantations of pollarded oak trees. In the foreground, fringing the broad
                        roadway, were booths, tents, and vans. And the staring colours of these
                        last, raw reds and yellows, the blue smoke beating down from their little
                        stove?pipe chimneys, the dirty white of tent flaps and awnings, stood out
                        harshly in a flare of stormy sunlight against the solid green of the oaks
                        and uprolling masses of black?purple cloud.
                    Here indeed was the show. But to Richard Calmady’s eyes it lacked
                        disappointingly in attraction. His nerves were some? what a?quiver. All the coarse detail, all the
                        unlovely foundations, of the business of pleasure were rather distressingly
                        obvious to his sight. A merry?go?round was in full activity—wooden horses
                        and most unseaworthy boats describing a jerky circle to the squeaking of tin
                        whistles and purposeless thumpings of a drum. Close by a crop?eared lurcher,
                        tied beneath one of the vans, dragged choking at his chain and barked
                        himself frantic under the stones and teasing of a knot of idle boys. A
                        half?tipsy slut of a woman threatened a child, who, in soiled tights and
                        spangles, crouched against the muddy hind?wheel of a waggon, tears dribbling
                        down his cheeks, his arm raised to ward off the impending blow. From the
                        menagerie—an amorphous huddle of grey tents, ranged behind a flight of
                        wooden steps leading up to an open gallery hung with advertisements of the
                        many attractions within—came the hideous laughter of a hyena, and the sullen
                        roar of a lion weary of the rows of stolid English faces staring daily,
                        hourly, between the bars of his foul and narrow cage, heart?sick with
                        longing for sight of the open, starlit heaven and the white?domed, Moslem
                        tombs amid the prickly, desert thickets and plains of clean, hot sand. On
                        the edge of the encampment horses grazed—sorry beasts for the most part,
                        galled, broken?kneed and spavined, weary and heart?sick as the captive lion.
                        But weary not from idleness, as he. Weary from heavy loads and hard
                        travelling and scant provender. Sick of collar and whip and reiterated
                        curses.
                    About the tents and booths, across the grass, and along the roadway, loitered
                        a sad?coloured, country crowd. Even to the children, it took its pleasure
                        slowly and silently; save in the case of a hulking, young carter in a
                        smock?frock, who, being pretty far gone in liquor, alternately shouted bawdy
                        songs and offered invitation to the company generally to come on and have
                        its head punched.
                    Such were the pictures that impressed themselves upon Richard’s brain, as
                        Henry led the dancing carriage?horses up the road. And it must be owned that
                        from this first sight of life, as the common populations live it, his soul
                        revolted. Delicately nurtured, finely bred, his sensibility accentuated by
                        the prickings of that thorn in the flesh which was so intimate a part of his
                        otherwise noble heritage, the grossness and brutality of much which most
                        boys of his age have already learned to take for granted affected him to the
                        point of loathing. And more especially did he loathe the last picture
                        presented to him on the outskirts of the common. At the door of a
                        gaudily?painted van, somewhat apart from the rest, stood a strapping
                            lass, tambourine in one hand, tin mug
                        for the holding of pennies in the other. She wore a black, velvet bodice,
                        rusty with age, and a blue, silk skirt of doubtful cleanliness, looped up
                        over a widely distended scarlet petticoat. Rows of amber beads encircled her
                        brown throat. She laughed and leered, bold?eyed and coarsely alluring, at a
                        couple of sheepish country lads on the green below. She called to them,
                        pointing over her shoulder with the tin cup, to the sign?board of her show.
                        At the painting on that board Richard Calmady gave one glance. His lips grew
                        thin and his face white. He jerked at the reins, causing the horses to start
                        and swerve. Was it possible that, as old Jackie Deeds said, God Almighty had
                        His jokes too, jokes at the expense of His own creation? That in cynical
                        abuse of human impotence, as a wanton pastime, He sent human beings forth
                        into the world thus ludicrously defective? The thought was unformulated. It
                        amounted hardly to a thought indeed,—was but a blind terror of insecurity,
                        which, coursing through the boy’s mind, filled him with agonised and angry
                        pity towards all disgraced fellow?beings, all enslaved and captive beasts.
                        Dimly he recognised his kinship to all such.
                    Meanwhile the carriage bowled along the smooth road and up the long hill,
                        bordered by fir and beech plantations, which leads to Spendle Flats. And
                        there, in the open, the storm came down, in rolling thunder and lashing
                        rain. Tall, shifting, white columns chased each other madly across the
                        bronze expanse of the moorland. Chifney, mindful of his charge, hurried
                        Dickie into a greatcoat, buttoned it carefully round him, offered to drive,
                        almost insisted on doing so. But the boy refused curtly. He welcomed the
                        stinging rain, the swirling wind, the swift glare of lightning, the ache and
                        strain of holding the pulling horses. The violence of it all heated his
                        blood as with the stern passion of battle. And under the influence of that
                        passion his humour changed from agonised pity to a fierce determination of
                        conquest. He would fight, he would come through, he would win, he would slay
                        dragons. Prometheus?like he would defy the gods. Again his thought was
                        unformulated, little more than the push of young, untamed energy impatient
                        of opposition. But that he could face this wild mood of nature and control
                        and guide these high?mettled, headstrong horses gave him coolness and
                        self?confidence. It yielded him assurance that there was, after all, an
                        immensity of distance between himself and all caged, outworn creatures, and
                        that the horrible example of deformity upon the brazen?faced girl’s
                        show?board had really nothing to do with him. Dickie’s last humour was less
                            noble than his first, it is to be
                        feared. But in all healthy natures, in all those in whom the love of beauty
                        is keen, there must be in youth strong repudiation of the brotherhood of
                        suffering. Time will teach a finer and deeper lesson to those that have
                        faith and courage to receive it; yet it is well the young should defy
                        sorrow, hate suffering, gallantly, however hopelessly, fight.
                    And the warlike instinct remained by Dickie all that evening. He was
                        determined to assert himself, to measure his power, to obtain. While Winter
                        was helping him dress for dinner he gave orders that his chair should be
                        placed at the bottom of the table.
                    “But the colonel sits there, Sir Richard.”
                    Dickie’s face did not give in the least.
                    “He has sat there,” he answered rather shortly. “But I have spoken to her
                        ladyship, and in future he will sit by her. I’ll go down early, Winter. I
                        prefer being in my place when the others come in.”
                    It must be added that Ormiston accepted his deposition in the best possible
                        spirit, patting the boy on the shoulder as he passed him.
                    “Quite right, old chap. I like to see you there. Claim your own, and keep
                        it.”
                    At which a lump rose in Dickie’s throat, nearly causing him to choke over his
                        first spoonful of soup. But Mary Cathcart, whose kind eyes saw most things,
                        smiled first upon her lover and then upon him, and began talking to him of
                        horses, as one sportsman to another. And so Dickie speedily recovered
                        himself and grew eager, playing host very prettily at his own table.
                    He demanded to sit up to prayers, moreover, and took his place in the dead
                        Richard Calmady’s stall nearest the altar rails on the gospel side. Next him
                        was Dr. Knott, who had come in unexpectedly just before dinner. He had the
                        boy a little on his mind; and, while contemptuous of his own solicitude in
                        the matter, wanted badly to know just how he was. Lady Calmady had begged
                        him to stay. He could be excellent company when he pleased. He had laid
                        aside his roughness of manner and been excellent company to?night. Next him
                        was Ormiston, while the seats immediately below were occupied by the
                        men?servants, Winter at their head.
                    Opposite to Richard, across the chapel, sat Lady Calmady. The fair, summer
                        moonlight streaming in through the east window spread a network of fairy
                        jewels upon her stately, grey?clad figure and beautiful head. Beside her was
                        Mary Cathcart, and then came a range of dark, vacant stalls. And below
                            these was a long line of
                        women?servants, ranging from Denny, in rustling, black silk, and
                        Clara,—alert and pretty, though a trifle tearful,—through many grades and
                        orders, down to the little scullery?maid, fresh from the keeper’s cottage on
                        the Warren—home?sick, and half scared by the grand gentlemen and ladies in
                        evening?dress, by the strange, lovely figures in the stained?glass windows,
                        by the great, gold cross and flowers, and the rich altar?cloth and costly
                        hangings but half seen in the conflicting light of the moonbeams and
                        flickering candles.
                    John Knott was impressed by the scene too, though hardly on the same lines as
                        the little scullery?maid. He had long ago passed the doors of orthodoxy and
                        dogma. Christian church and heathen temple—could he have had the interesting
                        experience of entering the latter—were alike to him. The attitude and office
                        of the priest, the same in every age and under every form of religion,
                        filled him with cynical scorn. Yet he had to own there was something
                        inexpressibly touching in the nightly gathering together of this great
                        household, gentle and simple; and in this bowing before the source of the
                        impenetrable mystery which surrounds and encloses the so curiously urgent
                        and vivid consciousness of the individual. He had to own, too, that there
                        was something inexpressibly touching in the tones of Julius March’s voice as
                        he read of the young Galilean prophet “going about and doing good ”—simple
                        and gracious record of tenderness and pity, upon which, in the course of
                        centuries, the colossal fabric of the modern Christianity, Catholic and
                        Protestant, has been built up.
                    “‘And great multitudes came to Him,’” read Julius, “‘having with them those
                        that were lame, blind, dumb, maimed, and many others, and cast them down at
                        Jesus’ feet, and He healed them; insomuch that the multitude marvelled when
                        they saw the dumb to speak, and the maimed to be whole, and the lame to
                        walk’”—
                    How simple it all sounded in that sweet, old?world story! And yet how
                        lamentably, in striving to accomplish just these same things, his own
                        far?reaching science failed!
                    “‘The maimed to be whole, the lame to walk’”—involuntarily he looked round at
                        the boy beside him.
                    Richard leaned back in his stall, tired with the long day and its varying
                        emotions. His eyes were half closed, and his profile showed pale as wax
                        against the background of dark woodwork. His eyebrows were drawn into a
                        slight frown, and his face bore a peculiar expression of reticence. Once he
                        glanced up at the reader, as though on a sudden a pleasant thought occurred
                            to him. But the movement was a passing
                        one. He leaned back in his stall again and folded his arms, with a movement
                        of quiet pride, almost of contempt.
                    Later that night, as her custom was, Katherine opened the door of Richard’s
                        room softly, and entering bent over his bed in the warm dimness to give him
                        a last look before going to rest herself. To?night Dickie was awake. He put
                        his arms round her coaxingly.
                    “Stay a little, mummy darling,” he said. “I am not a bit sleepy. I want to
                        talk.”
                    Katherine sat down on the edge of the bed. All the mass of her hair was
                        unbound, and fell in a cloud about her to the waist. Richard, leaning on one
                        elbow, gathered it together, held and kissed it. He was possessed by the
                        sense of his mother’s great beauty. She seemed so magnificently far removed
                        from all that is coarse, spoiled, or degraded. She seemed so superb, so
                        exquisite a personage. So he gazed at her, kissed her hair, and gently
                        touched her arms, where the open sleeves of her white dressing?gown left
                        them bare, in reverential ecstasy.
                    Katherine became almost perplexed.
                    “My dearest, what is it?” she asked at last.
                    “Oh! it’s only that you’re so perfect, mother,” he said. “You make me feel so
                        safe somehow. I’m never afraid when you are there.”
                    “Afraid of what?” she asked. A hope came upon her that he had grown nervous
                        of riding, and wanted her to help him to retire gracefully from the matter.
                        But his next words undeceived her. He threw himself back against the pillow
                        and clasped his hands under his head.
                    “That’s just it,” he said. “I don’t know exactly what I am afraid of, and yet
                        I do get awfully scared at times. I suppose, mother, if one’s in a good
                        position—the position we’re in, you know—nobody can ill?use one very
                        much?”
                    Lady Calmady’s eyes blazed with indignation.—“Ill?use you? Who has ever dared
                        to hint at, to dream of, such a thing, dear Richard?”
                    “Oh, no one—no one! Only I can’t help wondering about things, you know. And
                        some—some people do get most awfully ill?used. I can’t help seeing
                        that.”
                    Katherine paused before answering. The boy did not look at her. She spoke
                        with quiet conviction, her eyes gazing out into the dimness of the room.
                    “I know,” she said, almost reluctantly. “And perhaps it is as well you should
                        know it too, though it is sad knowledge.
                        People are not always very considerate of one another. But ill?usage cannot
                        touch you, my dearest. You are saved by love, by position, by wealth.”
                    “You are sure of that, mother?”
                    “Sure? Of course I am sure, darling,” she answered. Yet even while speaking
                        her heart sank.
                    Richard remained silent for a space. Then he said, with certain
                        hesitancy:—“Mother, tell me, it is true then that I am rich?”
                    “Quite true, Dick.”
                    “But sometimes people lose their money.”
                    Katherine smiled.—“ Your money is not kept in a stocking, dearest.”
                    “I don’t suppose it is,” the boy said, turning towards her. “But don’t banks
                        break?”
                    “Yes, banks break. But a good many broken banks would not affect you. It is
                        too long a story to tell you now, Dickie, but your income is very safe. It
                        would almost need a revolution to ruin you. You are rich now; and I am able
                        to save considerable sums for you yearly.”
                    “It’s—it’s awfully good of you to take so much trouble for me, mother,” he
                        interrupted, stroking her bare arm again delicately.
                    To Katherine his half?shy endearments were the most delicious thing in
                        life—so delicious that at moments she could hardly endure them. They made
                        her heart too full.
                    “Eight years hence, when you come of age and I give account of my
                        stewardship, you will be very rich,” she said.
                    Richard lay quite still, his eyes again fixed on the dimness.
                    “That—that’s good news,” he said at last, drawing a long breath. “I saw
                        things to?day, mother, while we were driving. It was nobody’s fault. There
                        was a fair with a menagerie and shows at Farley Row. I couldn’t help seeing.
                        Don’t ask me about it, mother. I’d rather forget, if I can. Only it made me
                        understand that it is safer for anyone—well, anyone like—me—don’t you know,
                        to be rich.”
                    Richard sat up, flung his arms round her and kissed her with sudden
                        passion.
                    “Beautiful mother, honey?sweet mother,” he cried, “you’ve told me just
                        everything I wanted to know. I won’t be afraid any more.” Then he added, in
                        a charming little tone of authority:—“Now you mustn’t stay here any longer.
                        You must be tired. You must go to bed and go to sleep.”
                
            
            
            
                BOOK III
                LA BELLE DAME SANS MERCI
                
                    CHAPTER I
                    IN WHICH OUR HERO’S WORLD GROWS SENSIBLY WIDER
                    IN the autumn of 1862 Richard Calmady went up to Oxford. Not through
                        ostentation, but in obedience to the exigencies of the case, his going was
                        in a somewhat princely sort, so that the venerable city, moved from the
                        completeness of her scholarly and historic calm, turned her eyes, in a
                        flutter of quite mundane excitement, upon the new?comer. Julius March
                        accompanied Richard. Time and thought had moved forward; but the towers and
                        spires of Oxford, her fair cloisters and enchanting gardens, her green
                        meadows and noble elms, her rivers, Isis and Cherwell, remained as when
                        Julius, too, had been among the young and ardent of her sons. He was greatly
                        touched by this return to the Holy City of his early manhood. He renewed old
                        friendships. He reviewed the past, taking the measure calmly of what life
                        had promised, what it had given of good. A pleasant house had been secured
                        in St. Giles’s; and a contingent of the Brockhurst household, headed by
                        Winter, went with the two gentlemen, while Chaplin and a couple of grooms
                        preceded them, in charge of a goodly number of horse?boxes.
                    For that first saddle, fashioned now some six years ago by Josiah Appleyard
                        of Farley Row, had worked something as near a miracle as ever yet was worked
                        by pigskin. It was a singularly ugly saddle, running up into a peak front
                        and back, furnished with a complicated system of straps and buckles and—in
                        place of stirrups and stirrup?leathers—with a pair of contrivances
                        resembling old?fashioned holsters. Mary Cathcart’s brown eyes had grown
                        moist on first beholding it. And Colonel Ormiston had exclaimed:—“Good God!
                        Oh, well, poor dear little chap, I suppose
                        it’s the best we can do for him.” An ugly saddle—yet had Josiah Appleyard
                        ample reason to skip, lamb?like, being glad. For, ugly or not, it fulfilled
                        its purpose, bringing custom to the maker, and happiness and health to the
                        owner of it.
                    The boy rode fearlessly, while exercise and exertion begot in him a certain
                        light?heartedness and audacity good to see. The window?seat of the Long
                        Gallery, the bookshelves of the library, knew him but seldom now. He was no
                        less courteous, no less devoted to his mother, no less in admiration of her
                        beauty; but the young barbarian was wide awake in Dickie, and drove him out
                        of doors, on to the moorland or into the merry green?wood, with dog, and
                        horse, and gun. On his well?broken pony he shot over the golden stubble
                        fields in autumn; brought down his pheasants, stationed at the edge of the
                        great coverts; went out for long afternoons, rabbiting in the warrens and
                        field banks, escorted by spaniels and retrievers, and keepers carrying
                        lithe, lemon?coloured ferrets tied up in a bag.
                    Later, when he was older,—but this tried Katherine somewhat, reminding her
                        too keenly of another Richard Calmady and days long dead,—Winter, a trifle
                        reluctant at such shortening of his own virtuous slumbers, would call Dickie
                        and help dress him, all in the grey of the summer morning; while, at the
                        little arched doorway in the west front, Chifney and a groom with a led
                        horse would await his coming, and the boy would mount and ride away from the
                        great, sleeping house. At such times a charm of dewy freshness lay on grass
                        and woodland, on hill and vale. The morning star grew pale and vanished in
                        the clear?flashing delight of sunrise, as Richard rode forth to meet the
                        string of racers; as he noted the varying form and fortune of Rattlepate or
                        Sweet Rosemary, of Yellow Jacket, Morion or Light?o’?Love, over the short,
                        fragrant turf of the gallop; as he felt the virile joy which the strength of
                        the horses, and the pounding rush of them as they swept past him, ever
                        aroused in him, Then he would ride on, by a short?cut, to the old, red?brick
                        rubbing?house, crowning the rising ground on the farther side of the lake,
                        and wait there to see the finish, talking of professional matters with
                        Chifney meanwhile; or, turning his horse’s head towards the wide, distant
                        view, sit silent, drawing near to nature and worshipping—with the innocent
                        gladness of a still virgin heart—in the Temple of the Dawn.
                    Life at Oxford was set in a different key. The university city was well
                        disposed towards this young man of so great wealth and so strange fortunes;
                        and Richard was unsuspicious, and ready enough to meet friendliness
                        half?way. Yet it must be owned he suffered
                        many bad quarters of an hour. He was, at once, older in thought and younger
                        in practical experience than his fellow?undergraduates. He was cut off, of
                        necessity, from their sports. They would eat his breakfasts, drink his wine,
                        and show no violent objection to riding his horses. They were considerate,
                        almost anxiously careful of him, being generous and good?hearted lads. And
                        yet poor Dick was perturbed by the fear that they were more at ease without
                        him, that his presence acted as a slight check upon their genial spirits and
                        their rattling talk. And so it came about that though his acquaintances were
                        many, his friends were few. Chief among the latter was Ludovic Quayle, a
                        younger son of Lord Fallowfeild—whom that kindly, if not very intelligent,
                        nobleman had long ago proposed to export from the Whitney to the Brockhurst
                        nursery with a view to the promotion of general cheerfulness. Mr. Ludovic
                        Quayle was a rather superfine, young gentleman, possessed of an excellent
                        opinion of himself, and a modest opinion of other persons—his father
                        included. But under his somewhat supercilious demeanour there was a vein of
                        true romance. He loved Richard Calmady. And neither time, nor opposing
                        interests, nor certain black chapters which had later to be read in the
                        history of life, destroyed or even weakened that love.
                    And so Dick, finding himself at sad disadvantage with most of the charming
                        young fellows about him in matters of play, turned to matters of work,
                        letting go the barbarian side of life for a while. In brain, if not in body,
                        he believed himself the equal of the best of them. His ambition was fired by
                        the desire of intellectual triumph. He would have the success of the
                        schools, since the success of the river and the cricket?field were denied
                        him. Not that Richard set any exaggerated value upon academic honours. Only
                        two things are necessary—this at least was his code at that period—never to
                        lapse from the instincts of high?breeding and honour, and to see just as
                        much of life, of men and of affairs, as obedience to those instincts
                        permits. Already the sense of proportion was strong in Richard, fed perhaps
                        by the galling sense of personal deformity. Learning is but a part of the
                        whole of man’s equipment, and a paltry enough part unless wisdom go along
                        with it. But the thirst of battle remained in him; and in this matter of
                        learning, at least, he could meet men of his own age and standing on equal
                        terms and overcome them in fair fight.
                    And so, during the last two years of his university course, he did meet them
                        and overcame, honours falling liberally to his share. Julius March looked on
                        in pleased surprise at the exploits of his
                        former pupil. While Ludovic Quayle, with raised eyebrows and half?tender,
                        half?ironical amusement relaxing the corners of his remarkably beautiful
                        mouth, would say:—
                    “Calmady, you really are a shameless glutton! How many more immortal glories,
                        any one of which would satisfy an ordinary man, do you propose to swallow
                        ”
                    “I suppose it’s a bad year,” Richard would answer. “The others can’t amount
                        to very much, or, needless to say, I shouldn’t walk over the course.”
                    “A charming little touch of modesty as far as you yourself are concerned,”
                        Ludovic answered. “But not strikingly flattering to the others. I would
                        rather suppose you abnormally clever, than all the rest abnormally
                        stupid—for, after all, you know, am not I, my great self, among the
                        rest?”
                    At which Dickie would laugh rather shamefacedly, and say:—“Oh you!—why you
                        know well enough you could do anything you liked if you weren’t so
                        confoundedly lazy!”
                    And meanwhile, at Brockhurst, as news arrived of these successes, Lady
                        Calmady’s soul received comfort. Her step was light, her eyes full of clear
                        shining as she moved to and fro ordering the great house and great estate.
                        She felt repaid for the bitter pain of parting with her darling, and sending
                        him forth to face the curious, possibly scornful, world of the university
                        city. He had proved himself and won his spurs. And this solaced her in the
                        solitude and loneliness of her present life. For her dear friend and
                        companion Marie de Mirancourt had found the final repose, before seeking
                        that of the convent. Early one February morning, in the second year of
                        Richard’s sojourn at Oxford, fortified by the rites of the Church, she had
                        passed the gates of death peacefully, blessing and blessed. Katherine
                        mourned for her, and would continue to mourn with still and faithful sorrow,
                        even while welcoming home her young scholar, hearing the details of his past
                        achievements and hopes for the future, or entertaining—with all gracious
                        hospitality—such of his Oxford friends as he elected to invite to
                        Brockhurst.
                    It was on one of these last occasions, the young men having gone down to the
                        Gun?Room to smoke and discuss the day’s pheasant?shooting, that Katherine
                        had kept Julius March standing before the Chapel?Room fire, and had looked
                        at him, a certain wistfulness in her face.
                    “He is happy—don’t you think, Julius?” she said. “He seems to me really
                        happier, more contented, than I have ever seen him since his childhood.”
                    
                    “Yes, I also think that,” Julius answered. “He has reason to be contented. He
                        has measured himself against other men and is satisfied of his own
                        powers.”
                    “Everyone admires him at Oxford?”
                    “Yes, they admire and envy him. He has been brilliantly successful.”
                    Katherine drew herself up, clasping her hands behind her, and smiling proudly
                        as she mused, gazing into the crimson heart of the burning logs. Then, after
                        a silence, she turned suddenly to her companion.
                    “It is very sweet to have you here at home again, Julius,” she said gently.
                        “I have missed you sorely since dearest Marie de Mirancourt died. Live a
                        little longer than I do, please. Ah! I am afraid it is no small thing that I
                        ask you to do for my sake, for I foresee that I shall survive to a
                        lamentably old age. But sacrifice yourself, Julius, in the matter of living.
                        Less than ever, when the shadows fall, shall I be able to spare you.”
                    For which words of his dear lady’s, though spoken lightly, half in jest,
                        Julius March gave God great thanks that night.
                    It was about this period that two pieces of news, each proving eventually to
                        have much personal significance, reached Lady Calmady from the outside
                        world. The first took the form of a letter—a rather pensive and tired
                        letter—from her brother, William Ormiston, telling her that his daughter
                        Helen was about to marry the Comte de Vallorbes, a young gentleman very well
                        known both to Parisian and Neapolitan society. The second took the form of
                        an announcement in the Morning Post, to the effect that Lady
                        Tobermory, whose lamented death that paper had already chronicled, had left
                        the bulk of her not inconsiderable fortune to her god?daughter Honoria,
                        eldest child of that distinguished officer General St. Quentin. In both
                        cases Lady Calmady wrote letters of congratulation, in the latter with very
                        sincere and lively pleasure. She held her cousin, General St. Quentin, in
                        affection for old sake’s sake. Honoria she remembered as a singularly
                        graceful, high?bred, little maiden, fleet of foot as a hind—too fleet of
                        foot indeed for little Dickie’s comfort of mind, and therefore banished from
                        the Brockhurst nursery. In the former case, her congratulations being
                        somewhat conventional, she added—in her own name and that of Richard—a
                        necklace of pearls, with a diamond clasp and bars to it, of no mean
                        value.
                    In the spring of 1865 Richard left Oxford for good, and took up his residence
                        once more at Brockhurst. But it was not
                        until the autumn of the following year, when he had reached the age of
                        three?and?twenty, and had already, for some six months, served his Queen and
                        country in the capacity of Justice of the Peace for the county of
                        Southampton, that any event occurred greatly affecting his fortunes, and
                        therefore worthy to set forth at large in this history.
                
                
                    CHAPTER II
                    TELLING HOW DICKIE’S SOUL WAS SOMEWHAT SICK, AND HOW HE MET
                        FAIR WOMEN ON THE CONFINES OF A WOOD
                    RICHARD CALMADY rode homeward through the autumn woods, and the
                        aspect of them was very lovely. But their loveliness was hectic, a
                        loveliness as it seemed, at all events at first sight, of death and burial,
                        rather than of life and hope. The sky was overcast, and a chill clung to the
                        stream?side and haunted the hollows. The young man’s humour, unfortunately,
                        was only too much in harmony with the more melancholy suggestions of the
                        scene. For Richard was by nature something of a poet, though he but rarely
                        wrote verses, and usually burned them as soon as written being scholar
                        enough to know and feel impatient of the “second best.” And this inherent
                        strain of poetry in him tempered the active and practical side of his
                        character, making wealth and position, and all those things which the
                        worldly?minded seek, seem of slight value to him at times. It induced in him
                        many and very varying moods. It carried him back often, even now in the
                        strength of his young manhood, to the fine fancies and exquisite unreason of
                        the fairy?world in which those so sadly ill?balanced footsteps of his had
                        first been set. To?day had proved, so far, an unlucky one, prolific of
                        warfare between his clear brain and all too sensitive heart. For it was the
                        burden of Richard’s temperament?the almost inevitable result of that
                        ever?present thorn in the flesh—that he shrunk as a poet, even as a woman,
                        while as a man, and a strong one, he reasoned and fought.
                    It fell out on this wise. He had attended the Quarter Sessions at Westchurch;
                        and a certain restlessness, born of the changing seasons, being upon him, he
                        had ridden. His habit, when passing outside the limits of his own property,
                        was to drive. He became aware—and angrily conscious his groom was aware
                        also—that his appearance afforded a spectacle of the liveliest interest to the passers?by; that persons of very
                        various age and class had stopped and turned to gaze at him; and that, while
                        crossing the bridge spanning the dark, oily waters of the canal, in the
                        industrial quarter of the pushing, wide?awake, county town, he had been the
                        subject of brutal comment, followed by a hoarse laugh from the collarless
                        throats of some dozen operatives and bargees loitering thereupon.
                    The consequence was that the young man arrived in court, his eyes rather hard
                        and his jaw set. Rich, well?born, not undistinguished too for his
                        attainments, and only three?and?twenty, Dickie had a fine fund of arrogance
                        to draw upon yet. He drew upon it this morning, rather to the confusion of
                        his colleagues upon the bench. Mr. Cathcart, the chairman, was already
                        present, and stood talking with Mr. Seymour, the rector of Farley, a shrewd,
                        able squarson of the old sporting type. Captain Fawkes of Water End was
                        there too; and so was Lemuel Image, eldest son of the Mr. Image, sometime
                        mayor of Westchurch, who has been mentioned in the early pages of this
                        chronicle.
                    In the last twenty years, supported by ever?increasing piles of barrels, the
                        Image family had mounted triumphantly upward in the social scale. Lemuel,
                        the man in question, married a poor and distant relation of Lord Aldborough,
                        the late lord lieutenant of the county; and had by this, and by a rather
                        truculent profession of high Tory politics, secured himself a seat on the
                        bench. He had given a fancy price, too, for that pretty, little place,
                        Frodsmill, the grounds of which form such an exasperating Naboth’s vineyard
                        in the heart of the Newlands property. Neither his person, nor his politics,
                        nor his absence of culture, found favour in Richard Calmady’s sight. And
                        to?day, being somewhat on edge, the brewer’s large, blustering presence and
                        manner—at once patronising and servile—struck him as peculiarly odious.
                        Image betrayed an evil tendency to emphasise his remarks by slapping his
                        acquaintances upon the back. He was also guilty of supposing a defect of
                        hearing in all persons older than, or in any measure denied the absolute
                        plethora of physical vigour so conspicuous in, himself. He invariably raised
                        his voice in addressing Richard. In return for which graceful attention
                        Dickie most cordially detested him.
                    “Image is a bit of a cad, and certainly Calmady makes no bones about letting
                        him know it,” Captain Fawkes remarked to Mr. Seymour, as they drove back to
                        Farley in the latter’s dogcart. “Fortunately he has a hide like a
                        rhinoceros, or we should have had a regular row between them more than
                            once this morning. Calmady’s generally
                        charming; but I must say, when he likes, he can be about the most insolent
                        fellow I’ve ever met, in a gentleman?like way.”
                    “A great deal of that is simply self?protective,” the clergyman answered. “It
                        is not difficult to see how it comes about, when you take his circumstances
                        into account. If I was him, God forgive me, I know I shouldn’t be half so
                        sweet?tempered. He bears it wonderfully well, all things considered.”
                    Nor did the disturbing incidents of the day end with the familiarities of the
                        loud?voiced brewer. The principal case to be tried was a melancholy one
                        enough—a miserable history of wayward desire, shame and suffering, followed
                        by a despairing course of lies and petty thieving to help support the poor
                        baby whose advent seemed so wholly a curse. The young mother—a pretty,
                        desperate creature—made no attempt at denial. She owned she had robbed her
                        mistress of a shilling here and sixpence there, that she had taken now a bit
                        of table silver and then a garment to the pawn?shop. How could she help it?
                        Her wages were a trifle, since her character was damaged. Wasn’t it a
                        charity to employ a girl like her at all? so her mistress said. And yet the
                        child must live. And Richard Calmady, sitting in judgment there with those
                        four other gentlemen of substantial means and excellent position, sickened
                        as he listened to the sordid details, the relentless elementary arguments.
                        For the girl, awed and frightened at first, grew eloquent in
                        self?defence.—“She loved him”—he being a smart young fellow, who, with
                        excellent recommendations from Chifney, had left the Brockhurst stables some
                        two years before, to take service in Westchurch.—“And he always spoke her
                        fair. Had told her he’d marry her right enough, after a bit—before God he
                        would. But it would ruin his chance of first?class places if he married yet.
                        The gentry wouldn’t take any but single men of his age. A wife would stand
                        in his way. And she didn’t want to stand in his way—he knew her better than
                        that. Not but that he reckoned her just as much his wife as any woman could
                        be. Of course he did. What a silly she was to trouble about it. And then
                        when there was no hiding any longer how it was with her, he up and awayed to
                        London, saying he would make a home for her there. And he kept on writing
                        for a bit, but he never told her where to write to him in return, so she
                        couldn’t answer. And then his letters came seldom, and then stopped
                        altogether, and then—and then”—
                    The girl was rebuked for her much speaking, and so wasting the time of the
                        Court. There were other cases. And Richard
                        Calmady sickened yet more, recognising in that a parable of perpetual
                        application. For are there not always other cases? The tragedy of the
                        individual life reaching its climax seems, to the chief actor, worthy to
                        claim and hold universal attention. Yet the sun never stands still in
                        heaven, nor do the footsteps of men tarry upon earth. No one person may take
                        up too much space, too much time. The movement of things is not stayed. The
                        single cry, however bitter, is drowned in the roar of the pushing crowd. The
                        individual, however keen his griefs, however heinous the offence done him,
                        must make way for those same other cases. This is the everlasting law.
                    And so pained, out of tune, troubled too by smouldering fires of anger,
                        Richard left Westchurch and his fellow?magistrates as early as he decently
                        could. Avoiding the highroad leading by Newlands and through Sandyfield
                        village, he cut across country by field lanes and over waste?lands to Farley
                        Row. The wide quiet of the autumn afternoon, the slight chill in the air,
                        were grateful to him after the noise and close atmosphere of the court. Yet
                        the young man strove vainly to think of pleasant things and to regain his
                        serenity. The girl’s tear?blotted face, the tones of her voice, haunted him.
                        Six weeks’ imprisonment. The sentence, after all, was a light one. Yet who
                        was he, who were those four other well?to?do gentlemen, that they should
                        judge her at all? How could they measure the strength of the temptation
                        which had beset her? If temptation is strong enough, must not the tempted of
                        necessity yield? If the tempted does not yield, is that not merely proof
                        that the temptation was not strong enough? The whole thing appeared to him a
                        matter of mathematics or mechanics. Given a greater weight than it can
                        carry, the rope is bound to break. And then for those who have not felt the
                        strain to blame the rope, punish the rope! It seemed to Richard, as he rode
                        homeward, that human justice is too often a very comedy of injustice. It all
                        appeared to him so exceedingly foolish. And yet society must be protected.
                        Other pretty, weak, silly creatures must be warned, by such rather brutal
                        object?lessons, not to bear bastards or pawn their mistresses’ spoons.
                    “‘Je ne sais pas ce que c’est que la vie éternelle,
                            mais celle çi est une mauvaise plainsanterie,’” Dickie quoted
                        to himself somewhat bitterly.
                    He turned aside at Farley Row, following the narrow road that runs behind the
                        houses in the main street and the great, vacant stables and outbuildings of
                        the White Lion Inn. And here, as though the immediate displeasures of this
                        ill?starred day were insufficient, memory
                        arose and recalled other displeasures of long ago. Recalled old Jackie Deeds
                        lurching out of that same inn yard, empty pipe in mouth, greedy of alms.
                        Recalled the old postboy’s ugly morsel of profanity—“God Almighty had His
                        jokes too.” And, at that, the laughter of those loafers upon the canal
                        bridge saluted Richard’s ears once more, as did the loud, familiar phrases
                        of Mr. Lemuel Image, the Westchurch brewer.
                    Before him the flat expanse of Clerke’s Green opened out; and the turf of
                        it—beaded with dew which the frail sunshine of the early morning had failed
                        to burn up—was crossed by long tracks of darker green, where flocks of geese
                        had wandered over its misty surface. Here the travelling menagerie and all
                        the booths of the fair had been stationed. Memory rigged up the tents once
                        more, painted the vans in crude, glaring colours, set drums beating and
                        merry?go?rounds turning, pointed a malicious finger at the sign?board of a
                        certain show. How many times Richard had passed this way in the intervening
                        years, and remembered in passing, yet thrown all hurt of remembrance from
                        him directly and lightly! To?day it gripped him. He put his horse into a
                        sharp trot.
                    Skirting the edge of the green, he rode down a rutted cart lane—farm
                        buildings and well?filled rickyards on the left—and forded the shallow,
                        brown stream which separates the parish of Farley from that of Sandyfield
                        and the tithing of Brockhurst.
                    Ahead lay the wide, rough road, ending in a broken avenue of ancient oaks,
                        and bordered on either hand by a strip of waste?land overgrown with coarse
                        grasses and low thickets of maple—which leads up to the entrance of the
                        Brockhurst woods. Over these hung a soft, bluish haze, making them appear
                        vast in extent, and upraising the dark ridge of the fir forest, which crowns
                        them, to mountain height against the western sky. A covey of partridges ran
                        up the sandy road before Richard’s horse; and, rising at last with a
                        long?drawn whir of wings, skimmed the top of the bank and dropped into the
                        pale stubble field on the other side of it. He paused at the head of the
                        avenue while the keeper’s wife—in lilac apron and sunbonnet—ran out to open
                        the big, white gate; the dogs meantime, from their kennels under the Spanish
                        chestnuts upon the slope behind her gabled cottage, setting up a vociferous
                        chorus. Thus heralded, Richard passed into the whispering, mysterious
                        stillness of the autumn woods.
                    The summer had been dry and fine, the foliage unusually rich and heavy, all
                        the young wood ripening well. Consequently
                        the turn of the leaf was very brilliant that year. The sweetly sober English
                        landscape seemed to have run mad and decked itself, as for a masquerade, in
                        extravagant splendours of colour. The smooth?stemmed beeches had taken on
                        every tint from fiery brown, through orange and amber, to verdigris green
                        touching latest July shoots. The round?headed oaks, practising even in
                        carnival time a measure of restraint, had arrayed themselves in a hundred
                        rich, finely?gradated tones of russet and umber. While, here and there, a
                        tall bird?cherry, waxing wanton, had clothed itself like the Woman of
                        Babylon in rose?scarlet from crown to lowest black?barked twig. Higher up,
                        the larch plantations rose in crowds of butter?coloured spires. Amethystine,
                        and blood?red, white?spotted toad?stools, in little companies, pushed
                        through the light soil on either side the road. Trailing sprays of bramble
                        glowed as flame. Rowan berries hung in heavy coral bunches, and the dogwood
                        spread itself in sparse, china?pink clusters. Only the undergrowth of
                        crooked alders, in swampy, low?lying places, kept its dark, purplish green;
                        and the light foliage of the ash waved in shadowy pallor against its knobbed
                        and knotted branches; and the ranks of the encircling firs retained their
                        solemn habit, as though in protest against the universal riot.
                    The stream hidden away in the hazel coppice gurgled and murmured. Beech?masts
                        pattered down, startling the stillness as with a sudden dropping of thunder
                        rain. Squirrels, disturbed in the ingathering of their winter store, whisked
                        up the boles of the great trees and scolded merrily from the forks of the
                        high branches. Shy, wild things rustled and scampered unseen through the
                        tangled undergrowth and beds of bracken. While that veil of bluish haze
                        touched all the distance of the landscape with a delicate mystery, and
                        softly blotted the vista of each wide shooting?drive, or winding pathway, to
                        left and right.
                    And as Richard rode onward, leaves gay even in death fluttering down around
                        him, his mood began to suffer change. He ceased to think and began to feel
                        merely. First came a dreamy delight in the beauty of the scene about him.
                        Then the sense of mystery grew upon him—of mystery, not merely hanging in
                        the delicate haze, but dwelling in the endless variety of form and colour
                        which met his eyes, of mystery inviting him in the soft, multitudinous
                        voices of the woodland. And, as the minutes passed, this sense grew
                        increasingly provocative, became too increasingly elusive. The light leapt
                        into Dickie’s eyes. He smiled to himself. He was filled with unreasoning
                        expectation. He seemed—it was absurd, yet very charming—to be playing hide?and?seek with some glad secret which
                        at any instant might be revealed to him. It murmured to him in the brook. It
                        scolded at him merrily with the scolding squirrels. It startled the
                        surrounding stillness, with the down?pattering beech?masts and fluttering of
                        leaves. It eluded him deftly, rustling away unseen through the green and
                        gold of the bracken. Lastly when, reaching the summit of the ridge of hill,
                        he entered upon the levels of the great tableland, it hailed him in the
                        long?drawn sighing of the fir forest. For a wind, suddenly awakened, swept
                        towards him from some far distance, neared, broke overhead, as summer waves
                        upon a shingly beach, died in delicious whispers, only to sweep up and break
                        and die again. Meanwhile the grey pall of cloud parted in the west,
                        disclosing spaces of faint yet clearest blue, and the declining sun, from
                        behind dim islands of shifting vapour, sent forth immense rays of mild and
                        misty light.
                    Richard laughed involuntarily to himself. For there was a fantastic,
                        curiously alluring influence in all this. It spoke to him as in delicate
                        persuasion. His sense of expectation intensified. He would not ride homeward
                        and shut himself within four walls just yet; but yield himself to the wooing
                        of these fair sylvan divinities, to that of the spirit of the evening wind,
                        of the softly shrouding haze, and of the broadening sunlight, a little
                        longer.
                    A turf?ride branches away to the left, leading along a narrow outstanding
                        spur of tableland to a summer?house, the prospect from which is among the
                        noted beauties of Brockhurst. This summer?house or Temple, as it has come to
                        be called, is an octagonal structure. Round?shafted pillars rise at each
                        projecting angle. In the recesses between them are low stone benches, save
                        in front where an open colonnade gives upon the view. The roof is leaded,
                        and surmounted by a wooden ball and tall, three?sided spike. These last, as
                        well as the plastered, windowless walls, are painted white. Within, the
                        hollow of the dome is decorated in fresco, with groups of gaily clad ladies
                        and their attendant cavaliers, with errant cupids, garlands of flowers,
                        trophies of rather impossible musical instruments, and cages full of
                        imprisoned, and therefore doubtless very naughty, loves. The colours have
                        grown faint by action of insweeping wind and weather; but this lends a
                        pathos to the light?hearted, highly?artificial art, accentuating the
                        contrast between it and its immediate surroundings.
                    For the Temple stands on a platform of turf at the extreme point of the spur
                        of tableland. The hillside, clothed with
                        heather and bracken, fringed lower down with a coppice of delicate birches,
                        falls steeply away in front and on either hand. Outstretched below, besides
                        the panorama of the great woods, lies all the country about Farley, on to
                        Westchurch, and beyond again—pasture and cornlands, scattered hamlets and
                        red?roofed farms half hidden among trees, the glint of streams set in the
                        vivid green of water?meadows, and soft, blue range behind range of distance
                        to that pale uprising of chalk down in the far south. Upon the right, some
                        quarter of a mile away, blocking the end of an avenue of secular Scotch
                        firs, the eastern façade of Brockhurst House shows planted proudly upon the
                        long grey and red lines of the terrace.
                    Richard checked his horse, pausing to look for a moment at that well?beloved
                        home. Then musing, he let his horse go forward along the level turf?ride.
                        The grey dome and white columns of the Temple standing out against the
                        spacious prospect—the growing brightness of this last, still chastened by
                        the delicious autumn haze—captivated his imagination. There was, seen thus,
                        a simplicity and distinction altogether classic in the lonely building. To
                        him it appeared not unfit shrine for the worship of that same all?pervasive
                        spirit of mystery, not unfit spot for the revelation of that same glad, yet
                        cunningly elusive secret, of which he suffered the so fond obsession.
                    And so it was that when, coming abreast of the building, the sound of young
                        voices—women’s voices—and finely modulated laughter saluted his ear, though
                        startled, for no stranger had the right of entry to the park, he was by no
                        means displeased. This seemed but part of the all?pervasive magic of this
                        strange afternoon. Richard smiled at the phantasies of his own mood—Yet he
                        forgot to be shy, forgot the distressing self?consciousness which made him
                        shrink from the observation of strangers—specially those of the other sex.
                        The adventure tempted his fancy. Even familiar things had put on a new and
                        beguiling vesture in the last half?hour, so there were miracles abroad,
                        perhaps. Anyhow he would satisfy himself as to the aspect of those
                        sweet?voiced and, as yet, unseen trespassers. He let his horse go forward
                        slowly across the platform of turf.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER III
                    IN WHICH RICHARD CONFIRMS ONE JUDGMENT AND REVERSES
                        ANOTHER
                    “HOW magnificently your imagination gallops when it once gets
                        agoing! Here you are bearing away the spoils, when the siege is not even yet
                        begun—never will be, I venture to hope, for I doubt if this would be a very
                        honourable”—
                    The speaker broke off, abruptly, as the shadow of horse and rider lengthened
                        upon the turf. And, during the silence which followed, Richard Calmady
                        received an impression at once arresting and subtly disquieting.
                    A young lady, of about his own age, leaned against one of the white pillars
                        of the colonnade. Her attitude and costume were alike slightly
                        unconventional. She was unusually tall, and there was a lazy, almost boyish
                        indifference and grace in the pose of her supple figure and the gallant
                        carriage of her small head. She wore a straight, pale grey?green jacket,
                        into the pockets of which her hands were thrust. Her skirt, of the same
                        colour and material, hung in straight folds to her feet, being innocent
                        alike of trimming and the then prevailing fashion of crinoline. Further, she
                        wore a little, round matador’s hat, three black pompoms planted
                        audaciously?upstanding above the left ear. Her eyes, long in shape and set
                        under straight, observant brows, appeared at first sight of the same clear,
                        light, warm brown as her hair. Her nose was straight, rather short, and
                        delicately square at the tip. While her face, unlined, serenely, indeed
                        triumphantly, youthful, was quite colourless and sufficiently thin to
                        disclose fine values of bone in the broad forehead and the cutting of jaw
                        and cheek and chin.
                    In that silence, as she and Richard Calmady looked full at one another, he
                        apprehended in her a baffling element, a something untamed and remote, a
                        freedom of soul, that declared itself alike in the gallantries and
                        severities of her dress, her attitude, and all the lines of her person. She
                        bore relation to the glad mystery haunting the fair autumn evening. She also
                        bore relation to the chill haunting the stream?side and the deep places of
                        the woods. And her immediate action ratified this last likeness in his mind.
                        When he first beheld her she was bright, with a certain teasing insouciance.
                        Then, for a minute, even more, she stood at gaze, as a hind does suddenly startled on the edge of the covert—her
                        head raised, her face keen with inquiry. Her expression changed, became
                        serious, almost stern. She recoiled, as in pain, as in an approach to
                        fear—this strong, nymphlike creature.
                    “Helen,” she called aloud, in tones of mingled protest and warning. And
                        thereupon, without more ado, she retired, nay, fled, into the sheltering,
                        sun?warmed interior of the Temple.
                    At this summons her companion, who until now had stood contemplating the wide
                        view from the extreme verge of the platform, wheeled round. For an
                        appreciable time she, too, looked at Richard Calmady, and that haughtily
                        enough, as though he, rather than she, was the intruder. Her glance
                        travelled unflinchingly down from his bare head and broad shoulders to that
                        pocket?like appendage—as of old?fashioned pistol holsters—on either side his
                        saddle. Swiftly her bearing changed. She uttered an exclamation of unfeigned
                        and unalloyed satisfaction—a little, joyful outcry, such as a child will
                        make on discovery of some lost treasure.
                    “Ah! it is you—you!” she said, laughing softly, while she moved forward, both
                        hands extended. Which hand, by the same token, she proposed to bestow on
                        Dickie remained matter for conjecture, since in the one she carried a
                        parasol with a staff?like gold and tortoiseshell handle to it, and in the
                        other, between the first and second fingers, a cigarette, the blue smoke of
                        which curled upward in transparent spirals upon the clear, still air.
                    As the lady of the grey?green gown retired precipitately within the Temple, a
                        wave of hot blood passed over Richard’s body. For notwithstanding his
                        three?and?twenty years, his not contemptible mastery of many matters, and
                        that same honourable appointment of Justice of the Peace for the county of
                        Southampton, he was but a lad yet, with all a lad’s quickness of sensitive
                        shame and burning resentment. The girl’s repulsion had been obvious—that
                        instinctive repulsion, as poor Dickie’s too acute sympathies assured him, of
                        the whole for the maimed, of the free for the bound, of the artist for some
                        jarring colour or sound which mars an otherwise entrancing harmony. And the
                        smart of all this was, to him, doubly salted by the fact that he, after all,
                        was a man, his critic merely a woman. The bitter mood of the earlier hours
                        of the day returned upon him. He cursed himself for a doting fool. Who was
                        he, indeed, to seek revelation of glad secrets, cherish fair dreams and
                        tempt adventures?
                    Consequently it fell out when that other lady—she of the cigarette—advanced
                        thus delightfully towards him, Richard’s
                        face was white with anger, and his lips rigid with pain—a rigidity begotten
                        of the determination that they should not tremble in altogether too unmanly
                        fashion. Sometimes it is very sad to be young. The flesh is still very
                        tender, so that a scratch hurts more then than a sword?thrust later. Only,
                        let it be remembered, the scratch heals readily; while of the sword?thrust
                        we die, even though at the moment of receiving it we seem not so greatly to
                        suffer. And unquestionably as Dickie sat there, on his handsome horse, hat
                        in hand, looking down at the lady of the cigarette, the hurt of that lately
                        received scratch began quite sensibly to lessen. For her eyes, their first
                        unsparing scrutiny accomplished, rested on his with a strangely flattering
                        and engaging insistence.
                    “But this is the very prettiest piece of good fortune!” she exclaimed. “Had I
                        arranged the whole matter to suit my own fancy it could not have turned out
                        more happily.”
                    Her tone was that of convincing sincerity; while, as she spoke, the soft
                        colour came and went in her cheeks, and her lips parting showed little, even
                        teeth daintily precious as a row of pearls. The outline of her face was
                        remarkably pure—in shape an oval, a trifle wide in proportion to its length.
                        Her eyebrows were arched, the eyelids arched also—very thin, showing the
                        movement of the eyeballs beneath them, drooping slightly, with a sweep of
                        dark lashes at the outer corner. It struck Richard that she bore a certain
                        resemblance to his mother, though smaller and slighter in build. Her mouth
                        was less full, her hair fairer—soft, glistening hair of all the many shades
                        of heather honey?comb, broken wax, and sweet, heady liquor, alike. Her
                        hands, he remarked, were very finished—the fingers pointed, the palms rosy.
                        The set of her black, velvet coat revealed the roundness of her bust. The
                        broad brim of her large, black hat, slightly upturned at the sides, and with
                        sweeping ostrich plumes as trimming to it, threw the upper part of her
                        charming face into soft shadow. Her heavy, dove?coloured, silk skirts stood
                        out stiffly from her waist, declaring its slenderness. The few jewels she
                        wore were of notable value. Her appearance, in fact, spoke the last word of
                        contemporary fashion in its most refined application. She was a great lady,
                        who knew the world and the worth of it. And she was absolute mistress both
                        of that knowledge, and of herself—notwithstanding those outstretched hands,
                        and outcry of childlike pleasure,—there, perhaps, lay the exquisite flattery
                        of this last to her hearer! She was all this, and something more than all
                        this. Something for which Dickie, his heart still virgin, had no name as
                        yet. It was new to his experience. A something clear, simple, and natural,
                        as the sunlight, yet infinitely subtle. A
                        something ravishing, so that you wanted to draw it very close, hold it,
                        devour it. Yet something you so feared, you needs must put it from you, so
                        that, faint with ecstasy, standing at a distance, you might bow yourself and
                        humbly worship. But such extravagant exercises being, in the nature of his
                        case, physically as well as socially inadmissible, the young man was
                        constrained to remain seated squarely in the saddle—that singularly ungainly
                        saddle, moreover, with holster?like appendages to it—while he watched her,
                        wholly charmed, curious and shy, carried indeed a little out of himself,
                        waiting for her to make further disclosures, since he felt absurdly slow and
                        unready of speech.
                    Nor was he destined to wait in vain. The fair lady appeared agreeably ready
                        to declare herself, and that with the finest turns of voice and manner, with
                        the most coercive variety of appeal, pathos, caprice, and dignity.
                    “I know on the face of it I have not the smallest right to have taken
                        possession in this way,” she continued. “It is the frankest impertinence.
                        But if you realised how extremely I am enjoying myself, you could not fail
                        to forgive me. All this park of yours, all this nature,” she turned
                        sideways, sketching out the great view with a broad gesture of the cigarette
                        and graceful hand that held it, “all this is divinely lovely. It is wiser to
                        possess oneself of it in an illicit manner, to defy the minor social
                        proprieties and unblushingly to steal, than not to possess oneself of it at
                        all. If you are really hungry, you know, you learn not to be too nice as to
                        the ways and means of acquiring sustenance.”
                    “And you were really hungry?” Richard found himself saying, as he feared
                        rather blunderingly. But he wanted, so anxiously, the present to remain
                        present—wanted to continue to watch her, and to hear her. She turned his
                        head. How then could he behave otherwise than with stupidity?
                    “La! la!” she replied, laughing indulgently, and thereby enchanting him still
                        more, “what must your experience of life be if you suppose one gets a full
                        meal of divine loveliness every day in the week? For my part, I am not
                        troubled with any such celestial plethora, believe me. I was ravening, I
                        tell you, positively ravening.”
                    “And your hunger is satisfied?” he asked, still as he feared blunderingly,
                        and with a queer inward movement of envy towards the wide view she looked
                        upon, and the glory of the sunset which dared touch her hair.
                    “Satisfied?” she exclaimed. “Is one’s hunger for the divinely lovely ever satisfied? Just now I have
                        stayed mine with the merest mouthful—as one snatches a sandwich at a railway
                            buffet. And directly I must get into
                        the train again, and go on with my noisy, dusty, stifling journey. Ah! you
                        are very fortunate to live in this adorable and restful place; to see it in
                        all its fine drama of changing colour and season, year in and year out.”
                    She dropped the end of her cigarette into a little, sandy depression in the
                        turf, and drawing aside her silken skirts, trod out the red heart of it
                        neatly with her daintily shod foot. Just then the other lady, she of the
                        grey?green gown, came from within the shelter of the Temple, and stood
                        between the white pillars of the colonnade. Dick’s grasp tightened on the
                        handle of the hunting?crop lying across his thigh.
                    “Am I so very fortunate?” he said, almost involuntarily.
                    His companion looked up smiling, her eyes dwelling on his with a strange
                        effect of intimacy, wholly flattering, wholly, indeed, distracting to common
                        sense.
                    “Yes—you are fortunate,” she answered, speaking slowly. “And some day,
                        Richard, I think you will come to know that.”
                    Sudden comprehension, sudden recognition struck the young man—very literally
                        struck him a most unwelcome buffet.
                    “Oh! I see—I understand,” he exclaimed, “you are my cousin—you are Madame de
                        Vallorbes.”
                    For a moment his sense of disappointment was so keen, he was minded to turn
                        his horse and incontinently ride away. The misery of that episode of his
                        boyhood set its tooth very shrewdly in him even yet. It seemed the most
                        cruelly ironical turn of fate that this entrancing, this altogether
                        worshipful, stranger should prove to be one and the same as the little
                        dancer of long ago with blush?roses in her hat.
                    But, though the colour deepened somewhat in the lady’s cheeks, she did not
                        lower her eyes, nor did they lose their smiling importunity. A little
                        ardour, indeed, heightened the charm of her manner—an ardour of delicate
                        battle, as of one whose honour has been ever so slightly touched.
                    “Certainly, I am your cousin, Helen de Vallorbes,” she replied. “You are not
                        sorry for that, Richard, are you? At this moment I am increasingly glad to
                        be your cousin—though not perhaps so very particularly glad to be Helen de
                        Vallorbes.” Then she added, rapidly:—“We are here in England for a few
                        weeks, my father and I. Troublesome, distressing things had happened, and he
                        perceived I needed change. He brought me away. London proved a desert and a
                        dust?heap. There was no solace, no
                        distraction from unpleasant thoughts, to be found there. So we telegraphed
                        and came down last night to the kind people at Newlands. Naturally my father
                        wanted to see Aunt Katherine. I desired to see her also, well understood,
                        for I have heard so much of her talent and her great beauty. But I knew
                        they—the brother and sister—would wish to speak of the past and find their
                        happiness in being very sad about it all. At our age—yours and mine—the
                        sadness of any past one may possess is a good deal too present with one
                        still to afford in the least consoling subject of conversation.”—Madame de
                        Vallorbes spoke with a certain vehemence. “Don’t you think so, Richard?” she
                        demanded.
                    And Richard could but answer, very much out of his heart, that he did indeed
                        think so.
                    She observed him a moment, and then her tone softened. The colour deepened
                        yet more in her cheeks. She became at once prettily embarrassed and prettily
                        sincere.
                    “And then, to tell you quite the truth, I am a trifle afraid of Aunt
                        Katherine. I have always wanted to come here and to see you, but—it is an
                        absurd confession to make—I have been scared at the idea of meeting Aunt
                        Katherine, and that is the real reason why I made Honoria take refuge with
                        me in this lovely park of yours, instead of going on with my father to the
                        house. There is a legend, a thrice accursed legend, in our family,—my mother
                        employs it even yet when she proposes to reduce me to salutary depths of
                        humility—that I came,—she brought me —here, once, long ago, when I was a
                        child, and that I was fiendishly naughty, that I behaved odiously.”
                    Madame de Vallorbes stretched out her hands, presenting the rosy palms of
                        them in the most engaging manner.
                    “But it can’t—it can’t be true,” she protested. “Why, in the name of all
                        folly, let alone all common decency, should I behave odiously? It is not
                        like me. I love to please, I love to have people care for me. And so I
                        cannot but believe the legend is the malign invention of some nurse or
                        governess, whom, poor woman, I probably plagued handsomely enough in her
                        day, and who, in revenge, rigged up this detestable scarecrow with which to
                        frighten me. Then, moreover, I have not the faintest recollection of the
                        affair, and one generally has an only too vivid memory of one’s own sins.
                        Surely, mon cher cousin, surely I am
                        innocent in your sight, as in my own? You do not remember the episode
                        either?”
                    Whereupon Dickie, looking down at her,—and still enchanted notwithstanding
                        his so sinister discovery, being first, and always a gentleman, and secondly, though as yet
                        unconsciously, a lover, proceeded to lie roundly. Lied, too, with a notable
                        cheerfulness born, as cheerfulness needs must be, of every act of faith and
                        high generosity.
                    “I remember it? Of course not,” he said. “So let the legend be abolished
                        henceforth and for evermore. Here, once and for all, cousin Helen, we
                        combine to pull down and bury that scarecrow.”
                    Madame de Vallorbes clapped her hands softly and laughed. And her laughter,
                        having the merit of being perfectly genuine—for the young man very really
                        pleased her fancy—was likewise very infectious. Richard found himself
                        laughing too, he knew not why, save that he was glad of heart.
                    “And now that matter being satisfactorily disposed of, you will come to
                        Brockhurst often,” he said. It seemed to him that a certain joyous equality
                        had been established between him and his divinity, both by his repudiation
                        of all former knowledge of her, and by their moment of laughter. He began
                        fearlessly to make her little offerings.—“Do you care about riding? I am
                        afraid there is not much to amuse you at Brockhurst; but there are always
                        plenty of horses.”
                    “And I adore horses.”
                    “Do you care about racing? We’ve some rather pretty things in training this
                        year. I should like awfully to show them to you.”
                    But here the conversation, just setting forth in so agreeable a fashion,
                        suffered interruption. For the other lady, she of the grey?green gown,
                        sauntered forward from the Temple. The carriage of her head was gallant, her
                        air nonchalant as ever; but her expression was grave, and the delicate
                        thinness of her face appeared a trifle accentuated. She came up to Madame de
                        Vallorbes and passed her hand through the latter’s arm caressing]y.
                    “You know, really, Helen, we ought to go, if we are not to keep your father
                        and the carriage waiting.”—Then she looked up with a certain determined
                        effort at Richard Calmady. “We promised to meet Mr. Ormiston at the first
                        park gate,” she added in explanation. “That is nearly a mile from here,
                        isn’t it?”
                    “About three?quarters—hardly that,” he answered. Her eyes were not brown, he
                        perceived, but a clear, dim green, as the soft gloom in the under?spaces of
                        a grove of ilexes. They affected him as fearlessly observant—eyes that could
                        judge both men and things and could also keep their own counsel.
                    
                    “Will you give your mother Honoria St. Quentin’s love, please?” she went on.
                        “I stayed here with her for a couple of days the year before last, while you
                        were at Oxford. She was very good to me. Now, Helen, come”—
                    “I shall see you again,” Richard cried to the lady of the cigarette. But his
                        horse, which for some minutes had been increasingly fidgety, backed away
                        down the hillside, and he could not catch the purport of her answer. To the
                        lady of the grey?green gown and eyes he said nothing at all.
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV
                    JULIUS MARCH BEARS TESTIMONY
                    “SO you really wish me to ask them both to come, Richard?”
                    Lady Calmady stood on the tiger?skin before the Gun?Room hearth. Upon the
                        said hearth a merry, little fire of pine logs clicked and chattered. Even
                        here, on the dry upland, the night air had an edge to it; while in the
                        valleys there would be frost before morning, ripening that same splendour of
                        autumn foliage alike to greater glory and swifter fall. And the snap in the
                        air, working along with other unwonted influences, made Katherine somewhat
                        restless this evening. Her eyes were dark with unspoken thought. Her voice
                        had a ring in it. The shimmering, black, satin dress and fine lace she wore
                        gave a certain magnificence to her appearance. Her whole being was vibrant.
                        She was rather dangerously alive. Her elder brother’s unlooked?for advent
                        had awakened her strangely from the reserve and stately monotony of her
                        daily existence, had shaken even, for the moment, the completeness of the
                        dominion of her fixed idea. She ceased, for the moment, to sink the whole of
                        her personality in the maternal relationship. Memories of her youth, passed
                        amid the varied interests of society and of the literary and political world
                        of Paris and London, assailed her. All those other Katherines, in short,
                        whom she might have been, and who had seemed to drop away from her,
                        vanishing phantom?like before the uncompromising realities of her husband’s
                        death and her child’s birth, crowded about her, importuning her with vague
                        desires, vague regrets. The confines of Brockhurst grew narrow, while all
                        that which lay beyond them called to her.
                        She craved, almost unconsciously, a wider sphere of action. She longed to
                        obtain, and to lend a hand in the shaping of events and making of history.
                        Even the purest and most devoted among women—possessing the doubtful
                        blessing of a measure of intellect—are subject to such vagrant heats, such
                        uprisings of personal ambition, specially during the dangerous decade when
                        the nine?and?thirtieth year is past.
                    Meanwhile Richard’s answer to her question was unfortunately somewhat
                        over?long in coming, for the young man was sunk in meditation and apparently
                        oblivious of her presence. He leaned back in the long, low arm?chair, his
                        hands clasped behind his head, the embroidered rug drawn about his waist, a
                        venerable, yellow?edged, calf?bound volume lying face downwards on his lap.
                        While young Camp—young no longer, full of years indeed beyond the allotted
                        portion of his kind—reposed, outstretched and snoring, on the all?too?wide
                        space of rug and chair?seat at his feet. And this indifference, both of man
                        and dog, grew irksome to Lady Calmady. She moved across the shining yellow
                        and black surface of the tiger?skin and straightened the bronzes of
                        Vinedresser and Lazy Lad standing on the high chimneypiece.
                    “My dear, it grows late,” she said. “Let us settle this matter. If your uncle
                        and cousin are to come, I must send a note over to Newlands to?morrow before
                        breakfast. Remember I have no choice in the matter. I leave it entirely to
                        you. Tell me seriously what you wish.”
                    Richard stretched himself, turning his head in the hollow of his hands, and
                        shrugged his shoulders slightly.
                    “That is exactly what I would thank you so heartily to tell me,” he answered.
                        “Do I, or don’t I seriously wish it? I give you my word, mother, I don’t
                        know.”
                    “Oh; but, my dearest, that is folly! You must have inclination enough, one
                        way or the other, to come to a decision. I was careful not to commit myself.
                        It is still easy not to ask them without being guilty of any
                        discourtesy.”
                    “It isn’t that,” Richard said. “It is simply that being anything but heroic I
                        am trying of two evils to choose the least. I should like to have my
                        uncle—and Helen—here immensely. But if the visit wasn’t a success I should
                        be proportionately disappointed and vexed. So is it worth the risk?
                        Disappointments are sufficiently abundant anyhow. Isn’t it slightly imbecile
                        to run a wholly gratuitous risk of adding to their number?”
                    Then the fixed idea began stealthily, yet surely, to reassert its dominion; for there was a perceptible flavour
                        of discouragement in the young man’s speech.
                    “Dickie, there is nothing wrong, is there,—nothing the matter, to?night?”
                    “Oh, dear no, of course not!” he answered, half closing his eyes. “Nothing in
                        the world’s the matter.”
                    He unclasped his hands, leaned forward and patted the bulldog lying across
                        the rug at his feet.—“At least nothing more than usual, nothing more than
                        the abiding something which always has been and always will be the
                        matter.”
                    “Ah, my dear!” Katherine cried softly.
                    “I’ve just been reading Burton’s Anatomy here,” he went on bending down, so
                        that his face was hidden, while he pulled the dog’s soft ears. “He assures
                        all—whom it may concern—that ‘bodily imperfections do not a whit blemish the
                        soul or hinder the operations of it, but rather help and much increase it.’
                        There, Camp, poor old man, don’t start—it’s nothing worse than me. I wonder
                        if the elaborate pains which have been taken through generations of your
                        ancestors to breed you into your existing and very royal hideousness—your
                        flattened nose and perpetual grin, for instance—do help and much increase
                        the operations of your soul!”
                    He looked up suddenly.
                    “What do you think, mother?”
                    “I think—think, my darling,” she said, “that perhaps neither you nor I are
                        quite ourselves to?night.”
                    “Oh, well I’ve had rather a beastly day!”—Richard dropped back against the
                        chair cushions again, clasping his hands behind his head. “Or I’ve seemed to
                        have it, which comes practically to much the same thing. I confess I have
                        been rather hipped lately. I suppose it’s the weather. You’re not really in
                        a hurry, mother, are you? Come and sit down.”
                    And obediently Katherine drew forward a chair and sat beside him. Those
                        uprisings of vagrant desire still struggled, combating the dominion of the
                        fixed idea. But the struggle grew faint and fainter. And then, for a
                        measurable time, Richard fell silent again while she waited. Verily there is
                        no sharper discipline for a woman’s proud spirit, than that administered,
                        often quite unconsciously, by the man whom she loves.
                    “We gave a wretched girl six weeks to?day for robbing her mistress,” he
                        remarked at last. “It was a flagrant case, so I suppose we were justified.
                        In fact I don’t see how we could have done otherwise. But it went against me
                        awfully, all the same. She has a child to support. Jim Gould got her into trouble and deserted her, like a
                        cowardly, young blackguard. However, it’s easy to be righteous at another
                        person’s expense. Perhaps I should have done the same in his place. I wonder
                        if I should?”—
                    “My dear, we need hardly discuss that point, I think,” Lady Calmady said.
                    Richard turned his head and smiled at her.
                    “Poor dear mother, do I bore you? But it is so comfortable to grumble. I know
                        it’s selfish. It’s a horrid bad habit, and you ought to blow me up for it.
                        But then, mother, take it all round, really I don’t grumble much, do I?”
                    “No, no!” Katherine said quickly. “Indeed, Dickie, you don’t.”
                    “I have been awfully afraid though, lately, that I do grumble more than I
                        imagine,” he went on, straightening his head, while his handsome profile
                        showed clear cut against the dancing brightness of the firelight. “But it’s
                        almost impossible always to carry something about with you which—which you
                        hate, and not let it infect your attitude of mind and, in a degree, your
                        speech. Twenty or thirty years hence it may prove altogether sufficient and
                        satisfactory to know”—his lips worked, obliging him to enunciate his words
                        carefully—“that bodily imperfections do not a whit blemish the soul or
                        hinder its operations—are, in short, an added means of grace. Think of it!
                        Isn’t it a nice, neat, little arrangement, sort of spiritual consolation
                        stakes! Only I’m afraid I’m some two or three decades on the near side of
                        that comfortable conclusion yet, and I find”—
                    Richard shifted his position, letting his arms drop along the chair arms with
                        a little thud. He smiled again, or at all events essayed to do so.
                    “In fact, I find it’s beastly difficult to care a hang about your soul, one
                        way or another, when you clearly perceive your body’s making you the
                        laughing?stock of half the people—why, mother, sweet dear mother,—what is
                        it?”
                    For Lady Calmady’s two hands had closed down on his hand, and she bowed
                        herself above them as though smitten with sharp pain.
                    “Pray don’t be distressed,” he went on. “I beg your pardon. I wasn’t thinking
                        what I was saying, I’m an ass. It’s nothing I tell you but the weather.
                        You’re all a lot too good to me and indulge me too much, and I grow soft,
                        and then every trifle rubs me the wrong way. I’m a regular spoilt child—I
                        know it, and a jolly good spanking is what I deserve. Burton, here, declares that the autumnal, like
                        the vernal, equinox breeds hot humours and distempers in the blood. I
                        believe we ought to be bled, spring and fall, like our forefathers. Look
                        here, mother, don’t take my grumbling to heart. I tell you I’m just a little
                        hipped from the weather. Let’s send for dear old Knott and get him to drive
                        out the devil with his lancet! No, no, seriously, I tell you what we will
                        do. It’ll be good for us both. I have arrived at a decision. We’ll have
                        uncle William and—Helen”—
                    Richard had spoken very rapidly, half ashamed, trying to soothe her. He
                        paused on the last word. He was conscious of a singular pleasure in
                        pronouncing it. The perfectly finished figure of his cousin, outstanding
                        against the wide, misty brightness of the sunset, the scent of the wood and
                        moorland, the haunting suggestion of glad secrets, even that upcurling of
                        blue cigarette smoke, rising as the smoke of incense—with a difference—upon
                        the clear, evening air, above all that silent flattery of intimate and
                        fearless glances, those gay welcoming gestures, that merry calling, as of
                        birds in the tree?tops, from the spirit of youth within him to the spirit of
                        youth so visibly and radiantly resident in her—all this rose up before
                        Richard. He grew reckless, though reckless of precisely what, innocent as he
                        was in fact although mature in learning, he knew not as yet. Only he turned
                        on his mother a face at once eager and shy, coaxing her as when in his
                        long?ago baby?days he had implored some petty indulgence or the gift of some
                        coveted toy on which his little heart was set.
                    “Yes, let us have them,” he said. “You know Helen is very charming. You will
                        admire her, mother. She is as clever as she can stick, one sees that at a
                        glance. And she is very much grande dame
                        too—and, oh, well, she is a whole lot of charming things! And her coming
                        would be a wholesome breaking up of our ordinary ways of going on. We are
                        usually very contented—at least, I think so—you, and dear Julius, and I, but
                        perhaps we are getting into a bit of a rut. Helen’s society might prove an
                        even more efficacious method of driving out my blue?devils than Knott’s
                        lancet or a jolly good spanking.”
                    He laughed quietly, patting Katherine’s hand, but looking away.
                    “And there is no denying it would be a vastly more graceful one—don’t you
                        think so?”
                    Thus were smouldering fires of personal ambition quenched in Lady Calmady, as
                        so often before. Richard’s tenderness
                        brought her to her knees. She hugged, with an almost voluptuous movement of
                        passion, that half?rejected burden of maternity, gathering it close against
                        her heart once more. But, along with the rapture of self?surrender, came a
                        thousand familiar fears and anxieties. For she had looked into Dickie’s
                        mind, as he spoke out his grumble, and had there perceived the existence of
                        much which she had dreaded and to the existence of which she had striven to
                        blind herself.
                    “My darling,” she said, with a certain hesitation, “I will gladly have them
                        if you wish it—only you remember what happened long ago, when Helen was here
                        last?”
                    “Yes, I know. I was afraid you would think of that. But you can put that
                        aside. Helen’s not the smallest recollection of it. She told me so this
                        afternoon.”
                    “Told you so?” Katherine repeated.
                    “Yes,” he said. “It was awfully sweet of her. Evidently she’d been bullied
                        about her unseemly behaviour when she was small, till you, and I, and
                        Brockhurst, had been made into a perfect bugbear. She’s quite amusingly
                        afraid of you still. But she’s no notion what really happened. Of course she
                        can’t have, or she could not have mentioned the subject to me.”—Richard
                        shrugged his shoulders. “Obviously it would have been impossible.”
                    There was a pause. Lady Calmady rose. The young man spoke with conviction,
                        yet her anxiety was not altogether allayed.
                    “Impossible,” he repeated. “Pretty mother, don’t disquiet yourself. Trust me.
                        To tell you the truth, I have felt to?day—is it very foolish?—that I should
                        like someone of my own age for a little while, as—don’t you know—a
                        playfellow.”
                    Katherine bent down and kissed him. But mother?love is not, even in its most
                        self?sacrificing expression, without torments of jealousy.
                    “My dear, you shall have your playfellow,” she said, though conscious of a
                        tightening of the muscles of her beautiful throat. “Good?night. Sleep
                        well.”
                    She went out, closing the door behind her. The perspective of the
                        dimly?lighted corridor, and the great hall beyond, struck her as rather
                        sadly lifeless and silent. What wonder, indeed, that Richard should ask for
                        a companion, for something young! Love made her selfish and cowardly she
                        feared. She should have thought of this before. She turned back, again
                        opening the Gun?Room door.
                    Richard had raised himself. He stood on the seat of the chair, steadying
                        himself by one hand on the chair?back, while with the other he pulled the rug from beneath the sleepy bulldog.
                    “Wake up, you lazy, old beggar,” he was saying. “Get down can’t you? I want
                        to go to bed, and you block the way, lying there in gross comfort, snoring.
                        Make yourself scarce, old man! If I’d your natural advantages in the way of
                        locomotion, I wouldn’t be so slow in using them”—
                    He looked up, and slipped back into a sitting position hastily.
                    “Oh, mother, I thought you had gone!” he exclaimed, almost sharply.
                    And to Katherine, overstrung as she was, the words came as a rebuke.
                    “My dearest, I won’t keep you,” she said. “I only came back to ask you about
                        Honoria St. Quentin.”
                    “What about her?”
                    “She is staying at Newlands—the two girls are friends, I believe. She seemed
                        to me a fine creature when last I saw her. She knows the world, yet struck
                        me curiously untouched by it. She is well read, she has ideas—some of them a
                        little extravagant, but time will modify that. Only her head is awake as
                        yet, not her heart, I think. Shall I ask her to come too?”
                    “So that we may wake up her heart?” Richard inquired coldly. “No thanks, dear
                        mother, that’s too serious an undertaking. Have her another time, please. I
                        saw her to?day, and, no doubt my taste is bad, but I must confess she did
                        not please me very much. Nor—which is more to the point in this connection
                        perhaps—did I please her.—Would you ring the bell, please, as you’re there?
                        I want Powell. Thanks so much. Good?night.”
                    Some ten minutes later Julius March, after kneeling in prayer, as his custom
                        was, before the divinely sorrowful and compassionate image of the Virgin
                        Mother and the Dead Christ, looked forth through the many?paned study window
                        into the clair?obscure of the windless, autumn night. He had been sensible
                        of an unusual element in the domestic atmosphere this evening, and had been
                        vaguely disquieted concerning both Katherine and Richard. It was impossible
                        but that, as time went on, life should become more complicated at
                        Brockhurst, and Julius feared his own inability to cope helpfully with such
                        complication. He entertained a mean opinion of himself. It appeared to him
                        he was but an unprofitable servant, unready, tongue?tied, lacking in
                        resource. A depression possessed him which he could not shake off. What had
                        he to show, after all, for these fifty odd
                        years of life granted to him? He feared his religion had walked in silver
                        slippers, and would so walk to the end. Could it then, in any true and vital
                        sense, be reckoned religion at all? Gross sins had never exercised any
                        attraction over him. What virtue was there, then, in being innocent of gross
                        sin? But to those other sins—sins of defective moral courage in speech and
                        action, sins arising from over?fastidiousness—had he not yielded freely? Was
                        he not a spiritual valetudinarian? He feared so. Offered, in the Eternal
                        Mercy, endless precious opportunities of service, he had been too weak, too
                        timorous, too slothful, to lay hold on them. And so, as it seemed to him
                        very justly, to?night confession, prayer, worship, left him unconsoled.
                    Then, looking out of the many?paned window while the shame of his barrenness
                        clothed him even as a garment, he beheld Lady Calmady pacing slowly over the
                        grey quarries of the terrace pavement. A dark, fur?bordered mantle shrouded
                        her tall figure from head to foot. Only her face showed, and her hands
                        folded stiffly high upon her bosom, strangely pale against the blackness of
                        her cloak. Ordinarily Julius would have scrupled to intrude upon her lonely
                        walk. But just now the cry within him for human sympathy was urgent. Her
                        near neighbourhood in itself was very dear to him, and she might let fall
                        some gracious word testifying that, in her opinion at least, his life had
                        not been wholly vain. For very surely that which survives when all other
                        passions are uprooted and cast forth—survives even in the case of the true
                        ascetic and saint—is the unquenchable yearning for the spoken approval of
                        those whom we love and have loved.
                    And so, pushed by his poverty of self?esteem, Julius March, throwing a plaid
                        on over his cassock, went out and paced the grey quarries beside Katherine
                        Calmady.
                    On one hand rose the dark, rectangular masses of the house, crowned by its
                        stacks of slender, twisted chimneys. On the other lay the indefinite and
                        dusky expanse of the park and forest. The night was very clear. The stars
                        were innumerable—fierce, cold points of pulsing light.—Orion’s jewelled belt
                        and sword flung wide against the blue?black vault. Cassiopeia seated
                        majestic in her golden chair. Northward, above the walled gardens, the Bear
                        pointing to the diamond flashing of the Pole star. While across all high
                        heaven, dusty with incalculable myriads of worlds, stretched the awful and
                        mysterious highroad of the Milky?Way. The air was keen and tonic though so
                        still. An immense and fearless quiet seemed to hold all things—a quiet not of sleep, but of conscious and perfect
                        equilibrium, a harmony so sustained and absolute that to human ears it
                        issued, of necessity, in silence.
                    And that silence Lady Calmady was in no haste to break. Twice she and her
                        companion walked the length of the terrace, and back, before she spoke. She
                        paused, at length, just short of the arcade of the farther garden?hall.
                    “This great peace of the night puts all violence of feeling to the blush,”
                        she said. “One perceives that a thousand years are very really as one day.
                        That calms one—with a vengeance.”
                    Katherine waited, looking out over the vague landscape, clasping the
                        fur?bordered edges of her cloak with either hand. It appeared to Julius that
                        both her voice and the expression of her face were touched with irony.
                    “There is nothing new under the sun,” she went on, “nor under the ‘visiting
                        moon,’ nor under those somewhat heartless stars. Does it occur to you,
                        Julius, how hopelessly unoriginal we are, how we all follow in the same
                        beaten track? What thousands of men and women have stood, as you and I stand
                        now, at once calmed—as I admit that I am—and rendered not a little homeless
                        by the realisation of their own insignificance in of the sleeping earth and
                        this brooding immensity of space! À quoi bon, à quoi
                            bon? Why can’t one learn to harden one’s poor silly heart, and
                        just move round, stone?like, with the great movement of things, accepting
                        fate and ceasing to struggle or to care?”
                    “Just because, I think,” he answered, “the converse of that same saying is
                        equally true. If, in material things, a thousand years are as one day, in
                        the things of the spirit one day is as a thousand years. Remember the Christ
                        crying upon the cross, ‘My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?’ and
                        suffering, during that brief utterance, the sum of all the agony of sensible
                        insignificance and sensible homelessness human nature ever has borne or will
                        bear.”
                    “Ah, the Christ! the Christ!” Lady Calmady exclaimed, half wistfully as it
                        seemed to Julius March, and half impatiently. She turned and paced the pale
                        pavement again.
                    “You are too courteous, my dear friend, and cite an example august out of all
                        proportion to my little lament.”—She looked round at him as she spoke,
                        smiling; and in the uncertain light her smile showed tremulous, suggestive
                        of a nearness to tears. “Instinctively you scale Olympus,—Calvary?—yes, but
                        I am afraid both those heights take on an equally and tragically
                        mythological character to me—and would bring me consolation from the dwelling?places of the gods. And my
                        feet, all the while, are very much upon the floor, alas! That is happening
                        to me which never yet happened to the gods, according to the orthodox
                        authorities. Just this—a commonplace—dear Julius, I am growing old.”
                    Katherine drew her cloak more severely about her and moved on hastily, her
                        head a little bent.
                    “No, no, don’t deny it,” she added, as he attempted to speak. “We can be
                        honest and dispense with conventional phrases, here, alone, under the stars.
                        I am growing old, Julius—and being, I suppose, but a vain, doting woman, I
                        have only discovered what that really means to?day! But there is this excuse
                        for me. My youth was so blessed, so—so glorious, that it was natural I
                        should strive to delude myself regarding its passing away. I perceive that
                        for years I have continued to call that a bride?bed which was, in truth, a
                        bier. I have struggled to keep my youth in fancy, as I have kept the red
                        drawing?room in fact, unaltered. Is not all this pitifully vain and
                        self?indulgent? I have solaced myself with the phantom of youth. And I am
                        old—old.”
                    “But you are yourself, Katherine, yourself. Nothing that has been, has ceased
                        to be,” Julius broke in, unable in the fulness of his reverent honour for
                        his dear lady to comprehend the meaning of her present bitterness. “Surely
                        the mere adding of year to year can make no so vital difference?”
                    “Ah! you dear stupid creature,” she cried,—“stupid, because, manlike, you are
                        so hopelessly sensible—it makes just all the difference in the world. I
                        shall grow less alert, less pliable of mind, less quick of sympathy, less
                        capable of adjusting myself to altered conditions, and to the entertaining
                        of new views. And, all the while, the demand upon me will not lessen.”
                    Katherine stopped suddenly in her swift walk. The two stood facing one
                        another.
                    “The demand will increase,” she declared. “Richard is not happy.”
                    And thereupon—since, even in the most devout and holy, the old Adam dies
                        extremely hard—Julius March fell a prey to very lively irritation. While she
                        talked of herself, bestowing unreserved confidence upon him, he could listen
                        gladly forever. But if that most welcome subject of conversation should be
                        dropped, let her give him that which he craved to?night, so specially—a word
                        for himself. Let her deal, for a little space, with his own private needs,
                        his own private joys and sorrows.
                    “Ah! Richard is not happy!” he exclaimed, his irritation finding voice. “We reach the root of the matter.
                        Richard is not happy. Alas, then, for Richard’s mother!”
                    “Are you so much surprised?” Katherine asked hotly. “Do you venture to blame
                        him? If so, I am afraid religion has made you rather cruel, Julius. But that
                        is not a new thing under the sun either. Those who possess high spiritual
                        consolations—unknown to the rank and file of us—have generally displayed an
                        inclination to take the misfortunes of others with admirable resignation.
                        Dearest Marie de Mirancourt was an exception to that rule. You might do
                        worse perhaps than learn to follow her example.”
                    As she finished speaking Lady Calmady turned from him rather loftily, and
                        prepared to move away. But even in so doing she received an impression which
                        tended to modify her resentful humour.
                    For an instant Julius March stood, a tall, thin, black figure, rigid and
                        shadowless upon the pallor of the grey pavement, his arms extended wide, as
                        one crucified, while he looked, not at her, not out into the repose of the
                        night?swathed landscape, but up at the silent dance of the eternal stars in
                        the limitless fields of space. As Katherine, earlier in the evening, had
                        taken up the momentarily rejected burden of her motherhood, so Julius now,
                        with a movement of supreme self?surrender, took up the momentarily rejected
                        burden of the isolation of the religious life. Self?wounded by self?love, he
                        had sought comfort in the creature rather than the Creator. And the creature
                        turned and rebuked him. It was just. Now Julius gave himself back, bowed
                        himself again under the dominion of his fixed idea; and, so doing, gained,
                        unconsciously, precisely that which he had gone forth to seek. For
                        Katherine, struck alike by the strange vigour, and strange resignation, of
                        his attitude, suffered quick fear, not only for, but of him. His aloofness
                        alarmed her.
                    “Julius! dear Julius!” she cried. “Come, let us walk. It grows cold. I enjoy
                        that, but it is not very safe for you. And, pardon me, dear friend, if I
                        spoke harshly just now. I told you I was getting old. Put my words down to
                        the peevishness of old age then.”
                    Katherine smiled at him with a sweet, half?playful humility. Her face was
                        very wan. And speech not coming immediately to him, she spoke again.
                    “You have always been very patient with me. You must go on being so.”
                    “I ask nothing better,” Julius said.
                    Lady Calmady stopped, drew herself up, shook back her head.
                    
                    “Ah! what sorry creatures we all are,” she cried, rather bitterly.
                        “Discontented, unstable, forever kicking against the pricks, and fighting
                        against the inevitable. Always crying to one another, ‘See how hard this is,
                        know how it hurts, feel the weight!’ My poor darling cries to me—that is
                        natural enough”—Katherine paused—“and as it should be. But I must needs run
                        out and cry to you. In this we are like links of an endless chain. What is
                        the next link, Julius? To whom will you cry in your turn?”
                    “The chain is not endless,” he replied. “The last link of it is riveted to
                        the steps of the throne of God. I will make my cry there—my threefold
                        cry—for you, for Richard, and for myself, Katherine.”
                    Lady Calmady had reached the arched side?door leading from the terrace into
                        the house. She paused, with her hand on the latch.
                    “Your God and I quarrelled nearly four?and?twenty years ago—not when Richard,
                        my joy, died, but when Richard, my sorrow, was born,” she said. “I own I see
                        no way, short of miracle, of that quarrel being made up.”
                    “Then a miracle will be worked,” he answered.
                    “Ah! you forget I grow old,” Katherine retorted, smiling; “so that for
                        miracles the time is at once too long and too short.”
                
                
                    CHAPTER V
                    TELLING HOW QUEEN MARY’S CRYSTAL BALL CAME TO FALL ON THE
                        GALLERY FLOOR
                    THIS world is unquestionably a vastly stimulating and entertaining
                        place if you take it aright—namely if you recognise that it is the creation
                        of a profound humorist, is designed for wholly practical and personal uses,
                        and proceed to adapt your conduct to that knowledge in all light?heartedness
                        and good faith. Thus, though in less trenchant phrase since she was still
                        happily very young, meditated Madame de Vallorbes, while standing in the
                        pensive October sunshine upon the wide flight of steps which leads down from
                        the main entrance of Brockhurst House. Tall, stone pinnacles alternating
                        with seated griffins—long of tail, fierce of beak and sharp of claw—fill in
                        each of the many angles of the descending stone balustrade on either hand.
                        Behind her, the florid, though rectangular, decoration of the house?front
                            ranged up, storey above storey, in
                        arcade and pilaster, heavily?mullioned window, carven plaque and string
                        course, to pairs of matching pinnacles and griffins—these last rampant,
                        supporting the Calmady shield and coat?of?arms—the quaint forms of which
                        break the long line of the pierced, stone parapet in the centre of the
                        facade, and rise above the rusty red of the low?pitched roofs, until the
                        spires of the one and crested heads of the other are outlined against the
                        sky. About her feet the pea?fowl stepped in mincing and self?conscious
                        elegance—the cocks with rustlings of heavy?trailing quills, the hens and
                        half?grown chicks with squeakings and whifflings—subdued,
                        conversational—accompanied by the dry tap of many bills picking up the
                        glossy grains of Indian?corn which she let dribble slowly down upon the
                        shallow steps from between her pretty fingers. She had huddled a soft sable
                        tippet about her throat and shoulders. The skirt of her indigo?coloured,
                        poplin dress, turning upon the step immediately above that on which she
                        stood, showed some inches of rose?scarlet, silken frill lining the hem of
                        it.
                    Helen de Vallorbes had a lively consciousness of her surroundings. She
                        enjoyed every detail of them. Enjoyed the gentle, south?westerly wind which
                        touched her face and stirred her bright hair, enjoyed the plaintive, autumn
                        song of a robin perched on a rose?grown wall, enjoyed the impotent ferocity
                        of the guardian griffins, enjoyed the small sounds made by the feeding
                        pea?fowl, the modest quaker greys and the imperial splendours of their
                        plumage. She enjoyed the turn of her own wrist, its gold chain?bracelet and
                        the handsome lace falling away from and displaying it, as she held out the
                        handfuls of corn. She enjoyed even that space of rose?scarlet declaring
                        itself between the dull blue of her dress and the grey, weathered surface of
                        the stone.
                    But all these formed only the accompaniment, the ground?tone, to more
                        reasoned, more vital, enjoyments. Before her, beyond the carriage sweep, lay
                        the square lawn enclosed by red walls and by octagonal, pepper?pot
                        summer?houses, whereon—unwillingly, yet in obedience to the wild justice of
                        revenge—Roger Ormiston had shot the Clown, half?brother to Touchstone,
                        racehorse of mournful memory. As a child Helen had heard that story. Now her
                        somewhat light, blue?grey eyes, their beautiful lids raised wide for once,
                        looked out curiously upon the space of dew?powdered turf; while the corners
                        of her mouth—a mouth a trifle thin lipped, yet soft and dangerously sweet
                        for kissing—turned upward in a reflective smile. She, too, knew what it was
                        to be angry, to the point of revenge; had indeed come to Brockhurst not without purpose of that
                        last tucked away in some naughty convolution of her active brain. But
                        Brockhurst and its inhabitants had proved altogether more interesting than
                        she had anticipated. This was the fourth day of her visit, and each day had
                        proved more to her taste than the preceding one. So she concluded this
                        matter of revenge might very well stand over for the moment, possibly stand
                        over altogether. The present was too excellent, of its kind, to risk
                        spoiling. Helen de Vallorbes valued the purple and fine linen of a high
                        civilisation; nor did she disdain, within graceful limits, to fare
                        sumptuously every day. She valued all that is beautiful and costly in art,
                        of high merit and distinction in literature. Her taste was sure and just, if
                        a little more disposed towards that which is sensuous than towards that
                        which is spiritual. And in all its many forms she appreciated luxury, even
                        entertaining a kindness for that necessary handmaid of luxury—waste.
                        Appreciated these the more ardently, that, with birth?pangs at the beginning
                        of each human life, death?pangs and the corruption of the inevitable grave
                        at the close of each, all this lapping, meanwhile, of the doomed flesh in
                        exaggerations of ease and splendour seemed to her among the very finest
                        ironies of the great comedy of existence. It heightened, it accentuated the
                        drama. And among the many good things of life, drama, come how and where and
                        when it might, seemed to her supremely the best. She desired it as a lover
                        his mistress. To detect it, to observe it, gave her the keenest pleasure. To
                        take a leading part in and shape it to the turn of her own heart, her own
                        purpose, her own wit, was, so far, her ruling passion.
                    And of potential drama, of the raw material of it, as the days passed, she
                        found increasingly generous store at Brockhurst. It invaded and held her
                        imagination, as the initial conception of his poem will that of the poet, or
                        of his picture that of the painter. She brooded over it, increasingly
                        convinced that it might be a masterpiece. For the drama—as she apprehended
                        it—contained not only elements of virility and strength, but an element, and
                        that a persistent one, of the grotesque. This put the gilded dome to her
                        silent, and perhaps slightly unscrupulous, satisfaction. How could it be
                        otherwise, since the presence of the grotesque is, after all, the main
                        justification of the theory on which her philosophy of life was based—namely
                        the belief that above all eloquence of human speech, behind all enthusiasm
                        of human action or emotion, the ear which hears aright can always detect the
                        echo of eternal laughter? And this grim echo did not affect the charming
                        young lady to sadness as yet. Still less
                        did it make her mad, as the mere suspicion of it has made so many, and those
                        by no means unworthy or illiterate persons. For the laugh, so far, had
                        appeared to be on her side, never at her expense—which makes a difference.
                        And the chambers of her House of Life were too crowded by health and
                        agreeable sensations, mental activities and sparkling audacities to leave
                        any one of them vacant for reception, more than momentary, of that
                        thrice?blessed guest, pity.
                    And so it followed that, as she fed the mincing pea?fowl, Madame de
                        Vallorbes’ smile changed in character from reflection to impatience. A
                        certain heat running through her, she set her pretty teeth and fell to
                        pelting the pea?hens and chicks mischievously, breaking up all their
                        aristocratic reserve and making them jump and squeak to some purpose. For
                        this precious, this very masterpiece of a drama was not only here
                        potentially, but actually. It was alive. She had felt it move under her
                        hand—or under her heart, which was it?—yesterday evening. Again this
                        morning, just now, she had noted signs of its vitality, wholly convincing to
                        one skilled in such matters. Impatience, then, became very excusable.
                    “For my time is short and the action disengages itself so deplorably slowly!”
                        she exclaimed.—“Pah! you greedy, conceited birds, which do you hold dearest
                        after all, the filling of your little stomachs, or the supporting of your
                        little dignities? Be advised by a higher intelligence. Revenge yourselves on
                        the grains that hit and sting you by gobbling them up. It is a venerable
                        custom that of feasting upon one’s enemies. And has been practised, in
                        various forms, both by nations and individuals. There, I give you another
                        chance of displaying wisdom—there—there!—La! la! what an absurd commotion!
                        You little idiots, don’t flutter. Agitation is a waste of energy, and
                        advances nothing. I declare peace. I want to consider.”
                    And so, letting the remaining handfuls of corn dribble down very slowly,
                        while the sunshine grew warmer and the shadows of the guardian griffins more
                        distinct upon the lichen?encrusted stones, Helen de Vallorbes sank back into
                        meditation.—Yes, unquestionably the drama was alive. But it seemed so
                        difficult to bring it to the birth. And she wanted, very badly, to hear its
                        first half?articulate cries and watch its first staggering footsteps. All
                        that is so entertaining, you yourself safely grown?up, standing very firm on
                        your feet, looking down!—And it would be a lusty child, this drama, very
                        soon reaching man’s estate and man’s inspiring violence of action, striking
                        out like some blind, giant Samson,
                        blundering headlong in its unseeing, uncalculating strength.—Helen laid her
                        hands upon her bosom, and threw back her head, while her throat bubbled with
                        suppressed laughter. Ah! it promised to be a drama of ten thousand, if she
                        knew her power, and knew her world—and she possessed considerable confidence
                        in her knowledge of both. Only, how on earth to set the crystal free of the
                        matrix, how to engage battle, how to get this thing fairly and squarely
                        born? For, as she acknowledged, in the flotation of all such merry schemes
                        as her present one, chance encounters, interludes, neatly planned evasions
                        and resultant pursuits, play so large and important a part. But at
                        Brockhurst this whole chapter of accidents was barred, and received rules of
                        strategy almost annihilated, by the fact of Richard Calmady’s infirmity and
                        the hard?and?fast order of domestic procedure, the elaborate system of
                        etiquette, which that infirmity had gradually produced. At Brockhurst there
                        were no haphazard exits and entrances. These were either hopelessly official
                        and public, or guarded to an equally hopeless point of secrecy. A contingent
                        of tall, civil men?servants was always on duty. Richard was invariably in
                        his place at table when the rest of the company came down. The ladies took
                        their after?dinner coffee in the drawing?room, and joined the gentlemen in
                        the Chapel?Room, library, or gallery, as the case might be. If they rode,
                        Richard was at the door ready mounted, along with the grooms and led?horses.
                        If they drove, he was already seated in the carriage.
                    “And how, how in the name of common sense,” Madame de Vallorbes exclaimed,
                        stamping her foot, and thereby throwing the now thoroughly nervous pea?fowl
                        into renewed agitation, “are you to establish any relation worth mentioning
                        with a man who is perpetually being carried in procession like a Hindu idol?
                        My good birds, one’s never alone with him—whether by design and arrangement,
                        I know not. But, so far, never, never, picture that! And yet, don’t tell me,
                        matchless mixture of pride and innocence though he is, he wouldn’t like
                        it!”
                    However, she checked her irritation by contemplation of yesterday.—Ah! that
                        had been very prettily done assuredly. For riding in the forenoon along the
                        road skirting the palings of the inner park, while they walked their horses
                        over the soft, brown bed of fallen fir?needles,—she, her father, and
                        Dick,—the conversation dealt with certain first editions and their bindings,
                        certain treasures, unique in historic worth, locked in the glass tables and
                        fine Florentine and piétra dura cabinets
                        of the Long Gallery. Mr. Ormiston was a connoisseur and talked well. And Helen had sufficient acquaintance with
                        such matters both to appreciate, and to add telling words to the talk.
                    “Ah! but I cannot go without seeing those delectable things, Richard,” she
                        said. “Would it be giving you altogether too much trouble to have them out
                        for me?”
                    “Why, of course not. You shall see them whenever you like,” he answered.
                        “Julius knows all about them. He’ll be only too delighted to act
                        showman.”
                    Just here the road narrowed a little, and Mr. Ormiston let his horse drop a
                        few lengths behind, so that she, Helen, and her cousin rode forward side by
                        side. The tones of the low sky, of the ranks of firs and stretches of
                        heather formed a rich, though sombre, harmony of colour. Scents, pungent and
                        singularly exhilarating, were given off by the damp mosses and the peaty
                        moorland soil. The freedom of the forest, the feeling of the noble horse
                        under her, stirred Helen as with the excitement of a mighty hunting, a
                        positively royal sport. While the close presence of the young man riding
                        beside her sharpened the edge of that excitement to a perfect keenness of
                        pleasure.
                    “Ah, how glorious it all is!” she cried. “How glad I am that you asked me to
                        come here.”
                    And she turned to Richard, looking at him as, since the first day of their
                        meeting, she had not, somehow, quite ventured to look.
                    “But, oh! dear me! please,” she went on, “I know Mr. March is an angel, a
                            saint—but—but—mea culpa, mea maxima
                            culpa, I don’t want him to show me those special treasures of
                        yours. He’ll take the life out of them. I know it. And make them seem like
                        things read of merely in a learned book. Be very charming to me, Richard.
                        Waste half an hour upon me. Show me those moving relics yourself.”
                    As she spoke, momentary suspicion rose in Dickie’s eyes. But she gazed back
                        unflinchingly, with the uttermost frankness, so that suspicion died, giving
                        place to the shy, yet triumphant, gladness of youth which seeks and finds
                        youth.
                    “Do, Richard, pray do,” she repeated.
                    The young man had averted his face rather sharply, and both horses, somehow,
                        broke into a hand gallop.
                    “All right,” he answered. “I’ll arrange it. This evening, about six, after
                        tea? Will that suit you? I’ll send you word.”
                    Then the road had widened, permitting Mr. Ormiston to draw up to them again.
                        The remainder of the ride had been a little silent.
                    Yes, all that had been prettily done. Nor had the piece that followed proved unworthy of the prelude. She ran
                        over the scene in her mind now, as she stood among the pecketing peafowl,
                        and it caused her both mirth and delightful little heats, in which the heart
                        has a word to say.—Madame de Vallorbes was ravished to feel her heart, just
                        now and again. For, contradictory as it may seem, no game is perfect that
                        has not moments of seriousness.—She recalled the aspect of the Long Gallery,
                        as one of those civil, ever?present men?servants had opened the door for
                        her, and she waited a moment on the threshold. The true artist is never in a
                        hurry. The breadth of the great room immediately before her showed very
                        bright with candle?light and lamp?light. But that died away, through
                        gradations of augmenting obscurity, until the extreme end, towards the
                        western bay, melted out into complete darkness. This produced an effect of
                        almost limitless length which moved her to a childish, and at first
                        pleasing, fancy of vague danger—an effect heightened by the ranges of
                        curious and costly objects standing against, or decorating, the walls in a
                        perspective of deepening gloom. Turquoise?coloured, satin curtains, faded to
                        intimate accord with the silvered surface of the panelling, were drawn
                        across the wide windows. They reached to the lower edge of the stonework
                        merely, leaving blottings of impenetrable shadow below. While, as
                        culmination of interest, as living centre to this rich and varied setting,
                        was the figure of Richard Calmady—seen, as his custom was, only to the
                        waist—seated in a high?backed chair drawn close against an antique, oak
                        table, upon which a small piétra dura
                        cabinet had been placed. The doors of the cabinet stood open, displaying
                        slender columns of jasper and porphyry, and, little drawers encrusted with
                        raised work in marble and precious stones. The young man sat stiffly
                        upright, as one who listens, expectant. His expression was almost painfully
                        serious. In one hand he held a string of pearls, attached to which, and
                        enclosed by intersecting hoops of gold, was a crystal ball that shone with
                        the mild effulgence of a mimic moon. And the great room was so very quiet,
                        that Helen, in her pause upon the threshold, had remarked the sound of
                        raindrops tapping upon the many window?panes as with impatiently nervous
                        fingers.
                    And this bred in her a corresponding nervousness—sensation to her,
                        heretofore, almost unknown. The darkness yonder began to provoke a
                        disagreeable impression, queerly challenging both her eyesight and her
                        courage. Old convent teachings, regarding the Prince of Darkness and his
                        emissaries, returned upon her. What if diabolic shapes lurked there, ready
                            to become stealthily emergent? She had
                        scoffed at such archaic fancies in the convent, yet, in lonely hours, had
                        suffered panic fear of them, as will the hardiest sceptic. A certain little
                        scar, moreover, carefully hidden under the soft hair arranged low on her
                        right temple, smarted and pricked. In short, her habitual self?confidence
                        suffered partial eclipse, She was visited by the disintegrating suspicion,
                        for once, that the eternal laughter might, possibly, be at her expense,
                        rather than on her side.
                    But she conquered such suspicion as contemptible, and cast out the passing
                        weakness.—The bare memory of it angered her now, causing her to fire a
                        volley of yellow corn at a lordly peacock, which sent him scuttling down the
                        steps on to the gravel in most plebeian haste. Yes, she had speedily cast
                        out her weakness, thank Heaven! What was all the pother about after all?
                        This was not the first time she had played merry games with the affairs and
                        affections of men. Madame de Vallorbes smiled to herself, recalling certain
                        episodes, and shook her charming shoulders gleefully, as she looked out into
                        the sunny morning. And then, was there not ample excuse? This man moved her
                        more than most—more than any. She swore he did. Her attitude towards him was
                        something new, something quite different, thereby justifying her campaign.
                        And therefore, all the bolder for her brief self?distrust and hesitation,
                        she had swept across the great room, light of foot, and almost impertinently
                        graceful of carriage.
                    “Here you are at last!” Dickie had exclaimed, with a sigh as of relief. “I
                        shan’t want anything more, Powell. You can come back when the dressing?bell
                        rings.”—Then, as the valet closed the door behind him, he continued
                        rapidly:—“Not that I propose to victimise you till then, Helen. You mustn’t
                        stay a moment longer than you like. I confess I’m awfully fond of this room.
                        I’m almost ashamed to think how much time I waste in it. Doing what? Oh,
                        well, just dreaming! You see it contains samples of the doings of all my
                        father’s people, and I return to primitive faiths here and perform acts of
                        ancestor worship.”
                    “Ah! I like that!” Helen said. And she did. Picture this man, long of arm,
                        unnaturally low of stature, and astonishingly—yes, quite
                        astonishingly—good?looking, moving about among these books and pictures,
                        these trophies of war and of sport, these oriental jars, tall almost as
                        himself, and all the other strange furnishings from out distant years and
                        distant lands! Picture him emerging from that wall of soft darkness yonder,
                        for instance! Helen’s eyes danced under their arched and drooping lids, and she registered the fact that,
                        though still frightened, her fright had changed in character. It was
                        grateful to her palate. She relished it as the bouquet of a wine of finest
                        quality. Meanwhile her companion talked on.
                    “The ancestor worship? Oh yes! I daresay you might like it for a change.
                        Getting it as I do, as habitual diet, it is not remarkably stimulating. The
                        natural man prefers to find occasion for worshipping himself rather than his
                        ancestors, after all, you know. But a little turn of it will serve to fill
                        in a gap and lessen the monotony of your visit. I am afraid you must be a
                        good deal bored, Helen. It must seem rather terribly humdrum here after
                        Paris and Naples, and—well—most places, at that rate, as you know them.”
                    Richard shifted his position. And the crystal moon encompassed by golden
                        bands, crossing and intersecting one another like those of a sidereal
                        sphere, gleamed as with an inward and unearthly light, swinging slowly upon
                        the movement of his hand.
                    “You must feel here as though the clock had been put back two or three
                        centuries. I know we move slowly, and conduct ourselves with tedious
                        deliberation. And so, you understand, you mustn’t let me keep you. Just look
                        at what you like of these odds and ends, and then depart without scruple.
                        It’s rather a fraud, in any case, my showing them to you. Julius March, as I
                        told you, is much better qualified to.”
                    “Julius March, Julius March!” Madame de Vallorbes broke in. “Do, I beseech
                        you, dear cousin Richard, leave him to the pious retirement of his study. Is
                        he not middle?aged, and a priest into the bargain?”
                    “Unquestionably,” Dickie said. “But, pardon me, I don’t quite see what that
                        has to do with it,”
                    Thereupon Madame de Vallorbes made a very naughty, little grimace and drummed
                        with her finger?tips upon the table.
                    “La! la!” she cried, “you’re no better than all the rest. Commend me to a
                        clever man for incapacity to apprehend what is patent to the intelligence of
                        the most ordinary woman. Look about you.”—Helen sketched in their
                        surroundings with a quick descriptive gesture. “Observe the lights and
                        shadows. The ghostly wavings of those pale curtains. Smell the pot?pourri
                        and spices. Think of the ancestor worship. Listen to the lamenting wind and
                        rain. See the mysterious treasure you hold in your hand. And then ask me
                        what middle?age and the clerical profession have to do with all this! Why,
                        nothing, just precisely nothing, nothing in the whole world. That’s the
                            point of my argument. They’d ruin the
                        sentiment, blight the romance, hopelessly blight it—for me at least.”
                    The conversation was slightly embarrassed, both Helen and Richard talking at
                        length, yet at random. But she knew that it was thus, and not otherwise,
                        that it behoved them to talk. For that which they said mattered not in the
                        least. The thing said served as a veil, as a cloak, merely, wherewith to
                        disguise those much greater things which, perforce, remained unsaid.—To
                        cover his and her lively consciousness of their present isolation, desired
                        these many days and now obtained. To conceal the swift, silent approaches of
                        spirit to spirit, so full of inquiry and self?revelation, fugitive reserves
                        and fugitive distrusts. To hide, as far as might be, the existence of the
                        hungry, all?compelling joie de vivre which
                        is begotten whensoever youth thus seeks and finds youth.—These unspoken and,
                        as yet, unspeakable things were alone of real moment, making eyes lustrous
                        and lips quick with tremulous, uncalled?for smiles irrespective of the
                        purport of their speech.
                    “Ah! but that’s rather rough on poor dear Julius, you know,” Dickie said. “I
                        suppose you wanted to learn all”—
                    “Learn?” she interrupted. “I wanted to feel. Don’t you know there is only one
                        way any woman worth the name ever really learns—through her emotions? Only
                        the living feel. Such men as he, if they are sincere, are already dead. He
                        would have made feeling impossible.”
                    A perceptible hush descended upon the room. Richard Calmady’s hand usually
                        was steady enough, but, in the silence, the pearls chattered against the
                        table. He went rather pale and his face hardened.
                    “And are you getting anything of that which you wanted, Helen?” he asked.
                        “For sometimes in the last few days—since you have been here—I—I have
                        wondered if perhaps we were not all like that—all dead”—
                    “You mean do I get emotion, am I feeling?” she said. “Rest contented. Much is
                        happening. Indeed I have doubted, during the last few days, since I have
                        been here, whether I have ever known what it is to feel actually and
                        seriously before.”
                    She sat down at right angles to him, resting her elbows upon the table, her
                        chin upon her folded hands, leaning a little towards him. One of those
                        pleasant heats swept over her, flushing her delicate skin, lending a certain
                        effulgence to her beauty. The scent of roses long faded hung in the air. But
                        here was a rose sweeter far than they. No white rose of paradise, it must be
                        confessed. Rather, like her immortal namesake, that classic Helen, was she rosa mundi, glowing with warmth and colour, rose?red rose
                        altogether of this dear, naughty, lower world!
                    “Richard,” she said impulsively, “why don’t you understand? Why do you
                        underrate your own power? Don’t you know that you are quite the most moving,
                        the most attractive—well—cousin, a woman ever had?”
                    She looked closely at him, her lips a little parted, her head thrown
                        back.
                    “Life is sweet, dear cousin. Reckon with yourself and with it, and
                        live—live.”—Then she put out her hand and held up the crystal between her
                        face and his. “There,” she went on, “tell me about this. I become
                        indiscreet, thanks I suppose to your Brockhurst habit of putting back the
                        clock, and speak with truly Elizabethan frankness. It belongs to
                        semi?barbaric ages, doesn’t it, thus, to tell the true truth? Show me this.
                        It seems rather fascinating.”
                    And Richard obeyed mechanically, pointing out to her the signs of the Zodiac,
                        those of the planets, and other figures of occult significance engraved on
                        the encircling, golden bands. Showed her how those same bands, turning on a
                        pivot, formed a golden cradle, in which the crystal sphere reposed. He
                        lifted it out from that cradle, moreover, and laid it in the softer cradle
                        of her palm. And of necessity, in the doing of all this, their heads—his and
                        hers—were very near together, and their hands met. But they were very solemn
                        all the while, solemn, eager, busy, as two babies revealing to each other
                        the mysteries of a newly acquired toy. And it seemed to Madame de Vallorbes
                        that all this was as pretty a bit of business as ever served to help forward
                        such gay purposes as hers. She was pleased with herself too—for did she not
                        feel very gentle, very sincere, really very innocent and good?
                    “No, hold it so,” Richard said, rounding her fingers carefully, that the tips
                        of them might alone touch the surface of the crystal. “Now gaze into the
                        heart of it steadily, fixing your will to see. Pictures will come presently,
                        dimly at first, as in a mist. Then the mist will lift and you will read your
                        own fortune and—perhaps—some other person’s fate.”
                    “Have you ever read yours?”
                    “Oh! mine’s of a sort that needs no crystal to reveal it,” he answered, with
                        a queer drop in his voice. “It’s written in rather indecently big letters
                        and plain type. Always has been.”
                    Helen glanced at him. His words whipped up her sense of drama, fed her
                        excitement. But she bent her eyes upon the
                        crystal again, and the hush descended once more, disturbed only by that
                        nervous tapping of rain.
                    “I see nothing,—nothing,” she said presently. “And there is much I would give
                        very much to see.”
                    “You must gaze with a simple intention.”—The young man’s voice came curiously
                        hoarse and broken. “Purify your mind of all desire.”
                    Helen did not raise her head.
                    “Alas! if those are the conditions of revelation my chances of seeing are
                        extremely limited. To purify one’s mind of all desire is to commit emotional
                        suicide. Of course I desire, all the while I desire. And equally, of course,
                        you desire. Every one who is human and in their sober senses must do that.
                        Absence of desire means idiotcy, or”—
                    “Or what?”
                    For an instant she looked up at him, a very devil of dainty malice in her
                        expression, in the shrug of her shoulders too, beneath their fine laces and
                        the affected sobriety of that same dull?blue, poplin gown.
                    “Or priestly, saintly middle?age—from which may Heaven in its mercy ever
                        deliver us,” she said.
                    Richard shifted his position a little, gathering himself back from her so
                        near neighbourhood—a fact of which the young lady was not unaware.
                    “I’m not quite sure whether I echo your prayer,” he said slowly. “I doubt
                        whether that attitude, or one approximate to it, is not the safest and best
                        for some of us.”
                    “Safest, no doubt.”—Madame de Vallorbes’ eyes were bent on the crystal sphere
                        again. “As it is safer to decline a duel, than go out and meet your man.
                        Best? On that point you must permit me to hold my own opinion. The word
                        ‘best’ has many readings according to the connection in which it isemployed.
                        Personally I should always fight.”
                    “Whatever the odds?”
                    “Whatever the odds.”—And almost immediately Madame de Vallorbes uttered a
                        little cry, curiously at variance with her bold words, “Something is moving
                        inside the crystal, something is coming. I don’t half like it, Richard.
                        Perhaps we are tempting Providence. Yes, it moves, it moves, like mist
                        rising off a river. It is poisonous. Some woman has looked into this
                        before—a woman of my temperament—and read an evil fortune. I know it. Tell
                        me, quick, how did the crystal come here, to whom did it belong?”
                    “To Mary Stuart—Mary, Queen of Scots,” Dickie said.
                    
                    “Ah! unhappy woman, ill?omened woman! You should have told me that before and
                        I would never have looked. Here take it, take it. Lock it up, hide it. Let
                        no woman ever look in it again!”
                    As she spoke Helen crossed herself hastily, pushing the magic ball towards
                        him. But, as though endowed with life and volition of its own—or was it
                        merely that Dick’s hand was even yet not quite of the steadiest?—it evaded
                        his grasp, fell off the table edge and rolled, gleaming moonlike, far across
                        the floor, away behind the pedestal of the bronze Pompeian Antinous, into
                        the dusky shadow of those ghostly?waving, turquoise, satin curtains.
                    With a sense of catastrophe upon her Helen had sprung to her feet.—Even now,
                        standing in the peaceful warmth of the autumn sunshine, among the feeding
                        pea?fowl, the remembrance of it caused her a little shiver. For at sight of
                        that gleaming ball hurrying across the carpet, all the nervousness, the
                        distrust of herself, and the vague spiritual alarms, which had beset her on
                        first entering the room, returned on her with tenfold force. The
                        superstitious terrors of the convent?bred girl mastered the light?hearted
                        scepticism of the woman of the world, and regions of sinister possibility
                        seemed disclosing themselves around her.
                    “Oh! how horrible! What does it mean?” she cried.
                    And Richard answered cheerily, somewhat astonished at her agitation, trying
                        to reassure her.
                    “Mean? Nothing, except that I was abominably awkward and the crystal
                        abominably slippery. What does it matter? We can find it again
                        directly.”
                    Then, self?forgetful in the fulness of his longing to pacify her, Richard had
                        pushed his chair back from the table, intending to go in search of the
                        vagrant jewel. But the chair was high, and its make not of the most solid
                        sort; and so he paused, instinctively calculating the amount of support it
                        could be trusted to render him in his descent. And during that pause Helen
                        had felt her heart stand still.—She set her little teeth now, recalling it.
                        For the extent of his deformity was fully apparent for once. And,
                        apprehending that which he proposed to do, she was smitten by immense
                        curiosity to realise the ultimate of the grotesque in respect of his
                        appearance as he should move, walk, grope in the dimness over there after
                        the lost crystal. But there are some indulgences which can be bought at too
                        high a price, and along with the temptation to gratify her curiosity came an
                        intensification of superstitious alarm. What if she had sinned, and trafficked with diabolic
                        agencies in trying to read the future? Payment of an actively disagreeable
                        character might be exacted for that, and would not such payment risk
                        disastrous augmentation if she gratified her curiosity thus further? Helen
                        de Vallorbes became quite wonderfully prudent and humane.
                    “No, no, don’t bother about it, don’t move, dear Richard,” she cried. “Let me
                        find it, please. I saw exactly the direction in which it went.”
                    And to enforce her speech, and keep the young man in his place, she laid her
                        hands persuasively upon his shoulders. This brought her charming face, so
                        pure in outline, set in its aureole of honey?coloured hair, very near to
                        his, she looking down, he up. And in this position the two remained longer
                        than was absolutely necessary, silent, quite still, while the air grew thick
                        with the push of unspoken and as yet unspeakable matters, and Helen’s hands
                        resting upon his shoulders grew heavy, as the seconds passed, with
                        languorous weight.
                    “There are better things than crystals to read in, after all, Richard,” she
                        said at last. Then she lifted her hands almost brusquely and stepped
                        back.—“All the same it is stupid I should have to go away,” she continued,
                        speaking more to herself than to him. “I am happy here. And when I am happy
                        it’s easy to be good—and I like to be good.”
                    She crossed the room and passed behind the bronze Pompeian Antinous. Under
                        the shadow of the curtains, in the angle of the bay, against the wainscot,
                        Queen Mary’s magic ball glowed softly luminous. Helen could have believed
                        that it watched her. She hesitated before stooping to pick it up and looked
                        over her shoulder at Richard Calmady. His back was towards her, his chair
                        close against the table again. He leaned forward on his elbows, his face
                        buried in his hands. Something in the bowed head, in the set of the almost
                        crouching figure reassured Madame de Vallorbes. She picked up the crystal
                        without more ado, with, indeed, a certain flippancy of gesture. For she had
                        received pleasing assurance that she had been frightened in the wrong place,
                        and that the eternal laughter was very completely on her side after all.
                    And just then a bell had rung in some distant quarter of the great house.
                        Powell, incarnation of decent punctualities, had appeared. Whereupon the
                        temperature fell to below normal from fever?heat. Drama, accentuations of
                        sensibility, in short all the unspoken and unspeakable, withered as tropic
                        foliage at a touch of frost. No doubt it was as well, Madame de Vallorbes reflected philosophically, since the
                        really psychological moment was passed. There had been a dinner party last
                        night, and—
                    But here the young lady’s reminiscences broke off short. She gathered up her
                        blue, poplin, scarlet?lined skirts, ran down the steps, scattering the
                        pea?fowl to right and left, and hastened across the gravel.
                    “Wait half a minute for me, dear Aunt Katherine,” she cried. “Are you going
                        to the conservatories? I would so like to see them. May I go too?”
                    Lady Calmady stood by the door in the high, red?brick wall. She wore a white,
                        lace scarf over her hair—turned up and back, dressed high, as of old, though
                        now somewhat grey upon the temples. The lace was tied under her chin,
                        framing her face. In her grey dress she looked as some stately, yet
                        gracious, lady abbess might—a lady abbess who had known love in all fulness,
                        yet in all honour—a lady abbess painted, if such happy chance could be, by
                        the debonair and clean?hearted Reynolds. She stood smiling, charmed—though a
                        trifle unwillingly—by the brilliant vision of the younger woman.
                    “Assuredly you may come with me, if it would amuse you,” she said.
                    “I may? Then let me open that door for you. La! la! how it sticks. Last
                        night’s rain must have swelled it”—and she wrestled unsuccessfully with the
                        lock.
                    “My dear, don’t try any more,” Katherine said. “You will tire yourself. The
                        exertion is too great for you. I will go back and call one of the
                        servants.”
                    “No, no”—and regardless of her fine laces, and trinkets, and sables Madame de
                        Vallorbes put her shoulder against the resisting door and fairly burst it
                        open.
                    “See,” she cried, breathless but triumphant, “I am very strong.”
                    “You are very pretty,” Katherine said, almost involuntarily.
                    The steeply?terraced kitchen?gardens, neat box edgings, wide flower borders
                        in which a few clumps of chrysanthemum and Michaelmas daisy still resisted
                        the frost, ranged down to greenish, brown ponds in the valley bottom spotted
                        with busy, quacking companies of white ducks. Beyond was an ascending slope
                        of thick wood, the topmost trees of which showed bare against the sky line.
                        All this was framed by the arch of the door, Madame de Vallorbes glanced at
                        it, while she pulled down the soft waves of hair, which her late exertions
                        had slightly disarranged, over her right temple. Then she turned impulsively
                        to Lady Calmady.
                    
                    “Thank you, dear Aunt Katherine,” she said. “I would so like you to like me,
                        you know.”
                    “I should be rather unpardonably difficult to please, if I did not like you,
                        my dear,” Lady Calmady answered. But she sighed as she spoke.
                    The two women moved away, side by side, down the path to the glistering
                        greenhouses. But Camp, who, missing Richard, had followed his mistress out
                        of the house for a leisurely morning potter, turned back sulkily across the
                        gravel homewards, his tail limp, his heavy head carried low. His instincts
                        were conservative, as has been already mentioned. He was suspicious of
                        new?comers. And, whoever liked this particular new?comer, Madame de
                        Vallorbes, he was sorry to say—and on more than one occasion he said it with
                        quite inconvenient distinctness—he did not.
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI
                    IN WHICH DICKIE TRIES TO RIDE AWAY FROM HIS OWN SHADOW, WITH
                        SUCH SUCCESS AS MIGHT HAVE BEEN ANTICIPATED
                    THAT same morning Richard was up and out early. Fog had followed on
                        the evening’s rain, and at sunrise still shrouded all the landscape.
                    “Let her ladyship know I breakfast at the stables and shan’t be in before
                        luncheon,” he had said to Powell while settling himself in the saddle. Then,
                        followed by a groom, he fared forth. The house vanished phantom?like behind
                        him, and the clang of the iron gates as they swung to was muffled by the
                        heavy atmosphere, while he rode on by invisible ways across an invisible
                        land, hemmed in, close?encompassed, pressed upon, by the chill, ashen
                        whiteness of the fog.
                    And for the cold silence and blankness surrounding him Richard was grateful.
                        It was restful—after a grim fashion—and he welcomed rest, having passed a
                        but restless night. For Dickie had been the victim of much travail of
                        spirit. His imagination vexed him, pricking up slumbering lusts of the
                        flesh. His conscience vexed him likewise, suggesting that his attitude had
                        not been pure cousinly; and this shamed him, since he was still singularly
                        unspotted from the world, noble modesties and decencies still paramount in
                        him. He was keenly, some might say
                        mawkishly, sensible of the stain and dishonour of casting, even
                        involuntarily and passingly, covetous glances upon another man’s goods. In
                        sensation and apprehension he had lived at racing pace during the last few
                        days. That hour in the Long Gallery last night had been the climax. The
                        gates of paradise had opened before him. And, since opposites of necessity
                        imply their opposites, the gates of hell had opened likewise. It appeared to
                        Dickie that the great poets, and painters, and musicians, the great lovers
                        even, had nothing left to tell him—for he knew. Knew, moreover, that his
                        Eden had come to him with the angel of the fiery sword that “turneth every
                        way” standing at the threshold of it—knew, yet further, as he had never
                        known before, the immensity of the difficulties, disabilities, humiliations,
                        imposed on him by his deformity. Bitterly, nakedly, he called his trouble by
                        that offensive name. Then he straightened himself in the saddle. Yes,
                        welcome the cold weight against his chest, welcome the silence, the
                        blankness, the dead, ashen pallor of the fog!
                    But just where the tan ride, leading down across the road to the left,
                        diverges from the main road, this source of negative consolation began to
                        fail him. For a draw of fresher air came from westward, causing the blurred,
                        wet branches to quiver and the pall of mist to gather, and then break and
                        melt under its wholesome breath, while the rays of the laggard sun, clearing
                        the edge of the fir forest, eastward, pierced it, hastening its dissolution.
                        Therefore it followed that by the time Richard rode in under the stable
                        archway, he found the great yard full of noise and confused movement. The
                        stable doors stood wide along one side of the quadrangle. Stunted, boyish
                        figures shambled hither and thither, unwillingly deserting the remnants of
                        half?eaten breakfasts, among the iron mugs and platters of the long, deal
                        tables of the refectory. Chifney and Preiston—the head?lad—hurried them,
                        shouting orders, admonishing, inciting to greater rapidity of action. And
                        the boys were sulky. The thick morning had promoted hopes of an hour or two
                        of unwonted idleness. Now those poor, little hopes were summarily blighted.
                        Lazy, pinched with cold by the raw morning air, still a bit hungry, sick
                        even, or downright frightened, they must mount and away—the long line of
                        racehorses streaming, in single file, up the hillside to the exercising
                        ground—with as short delay as possible, or Mr. Chifney and his ash stick
                        would know the reason why.
                    There were elements of brutality in the scene from which Richard would,
                        oftentimes, have recoiled. To?day he was
                        selfish, absorbed to the point of callousness. If he remarked them at all,
                        it was in bitter welcome, as he had welcomed the chill and staring blankness
                        of the fog. He was indifferent to the fact that Chifney was harsh, the
                        horses testy or wicked, that the boys’ noses were red, and that they blew
                        their purple fingers before laying hold of the reins in a vain attempt to
                        promote circulation. Dickie sat still as a statue in the midst of all the
                        turmoil, the handle of his crop resting on his thigh, his eyes hot from
                        sleeplessness and wild thoughts, his face hard as marble.—Unhappy? Wasn’t he
                        unhappy too? Suffer? Well, let them suffer—within reasonable limits.
                        Suffering was the fundamental law of existence. They must bow to the
                        workings of it along with the rest.
                    But one wretched, little chap fairly blubbered. He had been kicked in the
                        stomach some three weeks earlier, and had been in hospital. This was his
                        first morning out. He had grown soft, and was light?headed, his knees all of
                        a shake. By means of voluminous threats Preiston got him up. But he sat his
                        horse all of a huddle, as limp as a half?empty sack of chaff. Richard looked
                        on feeling, not pity, but only irritation, finally amounting to anger. The
                        child’s whole aspect and the snivelling sounds he made were so hatefully
                        ugly. It disgusted him.
                    “Here, Chifney, leave that fellow at home,” he said. “He’s no good.”
                    “He’s malingering, Sir Richard. I know his sort. Give in to him now and we
                        shall have the same game, and worse, over again to?morrow.” 
                    “Very probably,” Richard answered. “Only it is evident he has no more hand
                        and no more grip than a sick cat to?day. We shall have some mess with him,
                        and I’m not in the humour for a mess, so just leave him. There, boy, stop
                        crying. Do you hear?” he added, wheeling round on the small unfortunate.
                        “Mr. Chifney’ll give you another day off and the doctor will see you. Only
                        if he reports you fit and you give the very least trouble to?morrow, you’ll
                        be turned out of the stables there and then. We’ve no use for shirkers. Do
                        you understand?”
                    In spite of his irritation, the hardness of Richard’s expression relaxed as
                        he finished speaking. The poor, little beggar was so abject—too abject
                        indeed for common decency, since he too, after all, was human. Richard’s own
                        self?respect made it incumbent upon him to lift the creature out of the pit
                        of so absolutely unseemly a degradation. He looked kindly at him, smiled,
                        and promptly forgot all about him. While to the boy it seemed that the gods
                        had verily descended in the likeness of
                        men, and he would have bartered his little, dirty, blear?eyed rudiment of a
                        soul thenceforward for another such a look from Richard Calmady.
                    Dickie promptly forgot the boy, yet some virtue must have been in the episode
                        for he began to feel better in himself. As the horses filed away through the
                        misty sunshine—Preiston riding beside the fourth or fifth of the string,
                        while Richard and Chifney brought up the rear, his chestnut suiting its
                        paces to the shorter stride of the trainer’s cob—the fever of the night
                        cooled down in him. Half thankfully, half amusedly, he perceived things
                        begin to assume their normal relations. He filled his lungs with the pure
                        air, felt the sun?dazzle pleasant in his eyes.He had run somewhat mad in the
                        last twenty?four hours surely? He was not such a fatuous ass as to have
                        mistaken Helen’s frank camaraderie, her
                        bright interest in things, her charming little ways of showing cousinly
                        regard, for some deeper, more personal feeling? She had been divinely kind,
                        but that was just her—just the outcome of her delightful nature. She wouldgo
                        away on Friday—Saturday perhaps—he rather hoped Saturday—and be just as
                        divinely kind to other people. And then he shook himself, feeling the
                        languid weight of her hands on his shoulders again. Would she—would—? For an
                        instant he wanted to get at, and incontinently brain, those other people.
                        After which, Richard mentally took himself by the throat and proceeded to
                        choke the folly out of himself.—Yes, she would go back to all those other
                        people, back moreover to the Vicomte de Vallorbes—whom, by the way, it
                        occurred to him she so seldom mentioned. Well, we don’t continually talk
                        about the people we love best, do we, to comparative strangers? She would go
                        back to her husband—her husband.—Richard repeated the words over to himself
                        sternly, trying to drive them home, to burn them into his consciousness past
                        all possibility of forgetting.
                    Anyhow she had been wonderfully sweet and charming to him. She had shown
                        him—quite unconsciously, of course—what life might be for—for somebody else.
                        She had revealed to him—what indeed had she not revealed! He remembered the
                        spirit of expectation that possessed him riding back through the autumn
                        woods the day he first met her. The expectation had been more than justified
                        by the sequel. Only—only—and then Dick became stern with himself again. For,
                        she having, unconsciously, done so much for him, was it not his first duty
                        never to distress her?—never to let her know how much deeper it had all gone
                        with him than with her?—never to insult her beautiful innocence by a word or look suggesting an affection less frank
                        and cousinly than her own?
                    Only, since even our strongest purposes have moments of lapse and weakness in
                        execution, it would be safer, perhaps, not to be much alone with her—since
                        she didn’t know—how should she? Yes, Richard agreed with himself not to
                        loaf, to allow no idle hours. He would ride, he would see to business. There
                        were a whole heap of estate matters claiming attention. He had neglected
                        them shamefully of late. Unquestionably Helen counted for very much, would
                        continue to do so. He supposed he would carry the ache of certain memories
                        about with him henceforth and forever. She had become part of the very fibre
                        of his life. He never doubted that. And yet, he told himself,—assuming a
                        second?hand garment of slightly cynical philosophy which suited singularly
                        ill with the love?light in his eyes, there radiantly apparent for all the
                        world to see,—that woman, even the one who first shows you you have a heart,
                        and a body too, worse luck, even she is but a drop in the vast ocean of
                        things. There remains all The Rest. And with praiseworthy diligence Dickie
                        set himself to reckon how immensely much all The Rest amounts to. There is
                        plenty, exclusive of her, to think about. More than enough, indeed, to keep
                        one hard at work all day, and send one to bed honestly tired, to
                        sleeping?point, at night. Politics for instance, science, literature,
                        entertaining little controversial rows of sorts—the simple, almost
                        patriarchal, duties of a great land?owner; pleasant hobbies such as the
                        collection of first editions, or a pretty taste in the binding of favourite
                        books—the observation of this mysterious, ever young, ever fertile nature
                        around him now, immutable order underlaying ceaseless change, the ever new
                        wonder and beauty of all that, and:—“I say, Chifney, isn’t the brown
                        Lady?Love filly going rather short on the off foreleg? Anything wrong with
                        her shoulder?”—and sport. Yes, thank God, in the name of everything healthy
                        and virile, sport and, above all, horses—yes, horses.
                    Thus did Richard Calmady reason with, and essay to solace, himself for the
                        fact that some fruits are forbidden to him who holds honour dear. Reasoned
                        with and solaced himself to such good purpose, as he fondly imagined, that
                        when, an hour and a half later, he established himself in the trainer’s
                        dining?room, a mighty breakfast outspread before him, he felt quite another
                        man. Racing cups adorned the chimneypiece and sideboard, portraits of
                        racehorses and jockeys adorned the walls. The sun streamed in between the
                        red rep curtains, causing the pot?plants
                        in the window to give off a pleasant scent, and the canary, in his swinging,
                        blue and white painted, cage above them, to sing. Mrs. Chifney, her cheeks
                        pink, her manner slightly fluttered,—as were her lilac cap strings,—presided
                        over the silver tea and coffee service, admonished the staid and bulky
                        tom?cat who, jumping on the arm of Dickie’s chair, extended a scooping
                        tentative paw towards his plate, and issued gentle though peremptory orders
                        to her husband regarding the material needs of her guest. To Mrs. Chifney
                        such entertainings as the present marked the red?letter days of her
                        calendar. Temporarily she forgave Chifney the doubtful nature of his
                        calling, and his occasional outbreaks of profane swearing likewise. She
                        ceased to regret that snug, might?have?been, little, grocery business in a
                        country town. She forgot even to hanker after prayer?meetings, anniversary
                        teas, and other mild, soul?saving dissipations unauthorised by the Church of
                        England. She ruffled her feathers, so to speak, and cooed to the young man
                        half in feudal, half in unsatisfied maternal affection—for Mrs. Chifney was
                        childless. And it followed that as he teased her a little, going back
                        banteringly on certain accepted subjects of difference between them,
                        praised, and made a hole in, her fresh?baked rolls, her nicely browned,
                        fried potatoes, her clear, crinkled rashers, assuring her it gave one an
                        appetite merely to sit down in a room so shiningly clean and spick and span,
                        she was supremely happy. And Dickie was happy too, and blessed the exercise,
                        the food, and the society of these simple persons, which, after his evil
                        night, seemed to have restored to him his wiser and better self.
                    “He always was the noblest looking young gentleman I ever saw,” Mrs. Chifney
                        remarked subsequently to her husband. “But here at breakfast this morning,
                        when he said, ‘If you won’t be shocked, Mrs. Chifney, I believe I could
                        manage a second helping of that game pie,’ his face was like a very angel’s
                        from heaven. Unearthly beautiful, Thomas, and yet a sort of pain at the back
                        of it. It gave me a regular turn. I had to shed a few tears afterwards when
                        I got alone by myself.”
                    “You’re one of those that see more than’s there, half your time, Maria,” the
                        trainer answered, with an unusual effort at sarcasm, for he was not wholly
                        easy about the young man himself.—“There’s something up with him, and danged
                        if I know what it is.” But these reflections he kept to himself.
                    Dr. Knott, later that same day, made reflections of a similar nature. For
                        though Dickie adhered valiantly to his good resolutions—going out with the second lot of horses between ten and
                        eleven o’clock, riding on to Banister’s farm to inspect the new barn and
                        cowsheds in course of erection, then hurrying down to Sandyfield Street and
                        listening to long and heated arguments regarding a right?of?way reported to
                        exist across the meadows skirting the river just above the bridge, a right
                        strongly denied by the present occupier,—notwithstanding these improving and
                        public?spirited employments, the love?light grew in his eyes all through the
                        long morning, causing his appearance to have something, if not actually
                        angelic, yet singularly engaging, about it. For, unquestionably, next to a
                        fortunate attachment, an unfortunate one, if honest, is among the most
                        inspiring and grace?begetting of possessions granted to mortals.—Helen must
                        never know—that was well understood. Yet the more Dickie thought the whole
                        affair over, the more he recognised the fine romance of thus cherishing a
                        silent and secret devotion. He was very young in this line as yet, it maybe
                        observed. Meanwhile it was nearly two o’clock. He would need to ride home
                        sharply if he was to be in time for luncheon. And at luncheon he would meet
                        her. And remembering that, his heart—traitorous heart—beat quick, and his
                        lips—traitorous lips—began to repeat her name. Thus do the gods of life and
                        death love to play chuck?farthing with the wise purposes of men, the theory
                        of the eternal laughter having a root of truth in it, as it would seem,
                        after all! And there ahead of him, under the shifting, dappled shadow of the
                        over?arching firs, Dr. Knott’s broad, cumbersome back, and high, two?wheeled
                        trap, blocked the road, while Timothy, the old groom,—stiff?kneed now and
                        none too active,—slowly pushed open the heavy, white gate of the inner
                        park.
                    As Richard rode up, the doctor turned in his seat and looked at him from
                        under his rough eyebrows, while his loose lips worked into a half?ironical
                        smile. He loved this lad of great fortune, and great misfortune, more
                        tenderly than he quite cared to own. Then, as Dick checked his horse beside
                        the cart, he growled out:—
                    “No need to make anxious inquiries regarding your health, young sir. What
                        have you been doing with yourself, eh? You look as fit as a fiddle and as
                        fresh as paint.”
                    “If I look as I feel I must look ravenously hungry,”Richard answered,
                        flushing up a little. “I’ve been out since six.”
                    “Had some breakfast?”
                    “Oh dear, yes! Enough to teach one to know what a jolly thing a good meal is, and make one wish
                        for another.”
                    “Hum!” Dr. Knott said. “That’s a healthy state of affairs, anyhow. Young
                        horses going well?”
                    “Famously.”
                    “Bless me, everything’s beer and skittles with you just at present then!”
                    Richard looked away down the smooth yellow road whereon the dappled shadows
                        kissed and mingled, mingled and kissed, and his heart cried “Helen, Helen,”
                        once again.
                    “Oh! I don’t know about that,” he said. “I get my share as well as the rest I
                        suppose—at least—anyway the horses are doing capitally this season.”
                    “I should like to have a look at them.”
                    “Oh, well you’ve only got to say when, you know. I shall be only too
                        delighted to show them you.”
                    As he walked the trap through the gateway, Dr. Knott watched Richard riding
                        alongside.—“What’s up with the boy,” he thought. “His face is as keen as a
                        knife, and as soft as—God help us, I hope there’s no sweethearting on hand!
                        It’s bound to come sooner or later, but the later the better, for it’ll be a
                        risky enough set out, come when it may.—Ah, look out there now, you old
                        fool,”—this to Timothy,—“don’t go missing the step and laying yourself up
                        with broken ribs for another three months, just when my work’s at its
                        heaviest. Be careful, can’t you?”
                    “But why not come in to luncheon now?” Richard said, wisdom whipping up good
                        resolutions once more, and bidding him check the gladness that gained on him
                        at thought of that approaching meeting. Oh yes! he would be discreet, he
                        would erect barriers, he would flee temptation. Knott’s presence offered a
                        finely rugged barrier, surely. Therefore, he repeated:?“Come in now. My
                        mother will be delighted to see you, and we can have a look round the
                        stables afterwards.”
                    “I’ll come fast enough if Lady Calmady will take me as I am. Work?a?day
                        clothes, and second best lot at that. You’re alone, I suppose?”
                    He watched the young man as he spoke. Noted the lift of his chin, and the
                        slightly studied indifference of his manner.
                    “No, for once we’re not. But that doesn’t matter. My uncle William Ormiston
                        is with us. You remember him?”
                    “I remember his wife.”
                    “Oh! she’s not here,” Dickie said. “Only he and his daughter, Madame de
                        Vallorbes. You’ll come?”
                    
                    “Oh dear, yes, I’ll come, if you’ll be good enough to prepare your ladies for
                        a rough?looking customer. Don’t let me keep you. Wonder what the daughter’s
                        like?” he added to himself. “The mother was a bit of a baggage.”
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII
                    WHEREIN THE READER IS COURTEOUSLY INVITED TO IMPROVE HIS
                        ACQUAINTANCE WITH CERTAIN PERSONS OF QUALITY
                    BUT Richard might have spared himself the trouble of erecting
                        barriers against too intimate intercourse with his cousin. Providence,
                        awaking suddenly, as it would seem, to the perils of his position, had
                        already seen to all that. For since he went forth, hot?eyed and hot?headed,
                        into the blank chill of the fog, the company at Brockhurst—as Powell
                        announced to him?had suffered large and unlooked?for increase. Ludovic
                        Quayle was the first of the self?invited guests to appear when Richard was
                        settled in the dining?room. He sauntered up to the head of the table with
                        his accustomed air of slightly supercilious inquiry, as of one who expects
                        to meet little save fools and foolishness, yet suffers these gladly, being
                        quite secure of his own wisdom.
                    “How are you, Dickie?” he said. “Fairly robust I hope, for the Philistines
                        are upon you. Still it might have been worse. I have done what I could. My
                        father, who has never grasped that there is an element of comedy in the
                        numerical strength of his family, wished to bring us over a party of eight.
                        But I stopped that. Four, as I tried to make him comprehend, touched the
                        limits of social decency. He didn’t comprehend. He rarely does. But he
                        yielded, which was more to the point perhaps. Understand though, we didn’t
                        propose to add surprise to the other doubtful blessings of our descent on
                        you. I wrote to you yesterday, but it appears you went out at some unearthly
                        hour this morning superior alike to the state of the weather and arrival of
                        your letters.”
                    “Fine thing going out early—excellent thing going out early. Very glad to see
                        you, Calmady, and very kind indeed of you and Lady Calmady to take us in in
                        this friendly way and show us hospitality at such short notice”—
                    This from Lord Fallowfeild—a remarkably tall, large, and handsome person. He
                        affected a slightly antiquated style of dress, with a sporting turn to
                        it,—coats of dust colour or grey, notably
                        long as to the skirts, well fitted at the waist, the surface of them
                        traversed by heavy seams. His double chin rested within the points of a
                        high, white collar, and was further supported by a voluminous, black, satin
                        stock. His face, set in soft, grey hair and grey whisker, brushed well
                        forward, suggested that of a benign and healthy infant—an infant, it may be
                        added, possessed of a small and particularly pretty mouth. Save in actual
                        stature, indeed, his lordship had never quite succeeded in growing up. Very
                        full of the milk of human kindness, he earnestly wished his
                        fellow?creatures—gentle and simple alike—to be as contented and happy as he,
                        almost invariably, himself was. When he had reason to believe them
                        otherwise, it perplexed and worried him greatly. It followed that he was
                        embarrassed, apologetic even, in Richard Calmady’s presence. He felt vaguely
                        responsible as for some neglected duty, as though there was something
                        somehow which he ought to set right. And this feeling harassed him,
                        increasing the natural discursiveness and inconsequence of his speech. He
                        was so terribly nervous of forgetting and of hurting the young man’s
                        feelings by saying the wrong thing, that all possible wrong things got upon
                        his brain, with the disastrous result that of course he ended by saying
                        them. In face of a person so sadly stationary as poor Dick, moreover, his
                        own perfect ability to move freely about appeared to him as little short of
                        discourteous, not to say coarse. He, therefore, tried to keep very still,
                        with the consequence that he developed an inordinate tendency to fidget.
                        Altogether Lord Fallowfeild did not show to advantage in Richard Calmady’s
                        company.
                    “Ah yes! fine thing going out early,” he repeated. “Always made a practice of
                        it myself at your age, Calmady. Can’t stand doctor’s stuff, don’t believe in
                        it, never did. Though I like Knott, good fellow Knott—always have liked
                        Knott. But never was a believer in drugs. Nothing better than a good sharp
                        walk, now, early, really early before the frost’s out of the grass.
                        Excellent for the liver walking”—
                    Here, perceiving that his son Ludovic looked very hard at him, eyebrows
                        raised to most admonitory height, he added hastily:—
                    “Eh?—yes, of course, or riding. Riding, nothing like that for health—better
                        exercise still”—
                    “Is it?” Richard put in. He was too busy with his own thoughts to be greatly
                        affected by Lord Fallowfeild’s blunders just then.—“I’m glad to know you
                        think so. You see it’s a matter in which I’m not very much of a judge.”
                    
                    “No—no—of course not.—Queer fellow Calmady,” Lord Fallowfeild added to
                        himself. “Uncommonly sharp way he has of setting you down.”
                    But just then, to his relief, Lady Calmady, Lady Louisa Barking, and pretty,
                        little Lady Constance Quayle entered the room together. Mr. Ormiston and
                        John Knott followed engaged in close conversation, the rugged, rough?hewn
                        aspect of the latter presenting a strong contrast to the thin, tall figure
                        and face, white and refined to the point of emaciation, of the diplomatist.
                        Julius March, accompanied by Camp—still carrying his tail limp and his great
                        head rather sulkily—brought up the rear. And Dickie, while greeting his
                        guests, disposing their places at table, making civil speeches to his
                        immediate neighbour on the left,?Lady Louisa,—smiling a good?morning to his
                        mother down the length of the table, felt a wave of childish disappointment
                        sweep over him. For Helen came not, and with a great desiring he desired
                        her. Poor Dickie, so wise, so philosophic in fancy, so enviably,
                        disastrously young in fact!
                    “Oh! thanks, Lady Louisa—it’s so extremely kind of you to care to come. The
                        fog was rather beastly this morning wasn’t it? And I shouldn’t be surprised
                        if it came down on us again about sunset. But it’s a charming day
                        meanwhile.—There, Ludovic, please—next Dr. Knott. We’ll leave this chair for
                        Madame de Vallorbes. She’s coming, I suppose?”
                    And Richard glanced towards the door again, and, so doing, became aware that
                        little Lady Constance, sitting between Lord Fallowfeild and Julius March,
                        was staring at him. She had an innocent face, a small, feminine copy of her
                        father’s save that her eyes were set noticeably far apart. This gave her a
                        slow, ruminant look, distinctly attractive. She reminded Richard of a
                        gentle, well?conditioned, sweet?breathed calf staring over a bank among
                        ox?eyed daisies and wild roses. As soon as she perceived—but Lady Constance
                        did not perceive anything very rapidly—that he observed her, she gave her
                        whole attention to the contents of her plate and her colour deepened
                        perceptibly.
                    “Pretty country about you here, uncommonly pretty,” Lord Fallowfeild was
                        saying in response to some remark of Lady Calmady’s. “Always did admire it.
                        Always liked a meet on this side of the county when I had the hounds. Very
                        pleasant friendly spirit on this side too. Now Cathcart, for
                        instance—sensible fellow Cathcart, always have liked Cathcart, remarkably
                        sensible fellow. Plain man though—quite astonishingly plain. Daughter very
                        much like him, I remember. Misfortune for a girl that. Always feel very much
                        for a plain woman. She married well
                        though—can’t recall who just now, but somebody we all know. Who was it now,
                        Lady Calmady?”
                    Between that haunting sense of embarrassment, and the kindly wish to carry
                        things off well, and promote geniality, Lord Fallowfeild spoke loud. At this
                        juncture Mr. Quayle folded his hands and raised his eyes devoutly to
                        heaven.
                    “Oh, my father! oh, my father!” he murmured. Then he leant a little forward
                        watching Lady Calmady.
                    “But, as you may remember, Mary Cathcart had a charming figure,” she was
                        saying, very sweetly, essaying to soften the coming blow.
                    “Ah! had she though? Great thing a good figure. I knew she married well.”
                    “Naturally I agree with you there. I suppose one always thinks one’s own
                        people the most delightful in the world. She married my brother.”
                    “Did she though!” Lord Fallowfeild exclaimed, with much interest. Then
                        suddenly his tumbler stopped half?way to his mouth, while he gazed
                        horror?stricken across the table at Mr. Ormiston.
                    “Oh no, no! not that brother,” Katherine added quickly. “The younger one, the
                        soldier. You wouldn’t remember him. He’s been on foreign service almost ever
                        since his marriage. They are at the Cape now.”
                    “Oh! ah! yes—indeed, are they?” he exclaimed. He breathed more easily. Those
                        few thousand miles to the Cape were a great comfort to him. A man could not
                        overhear your strictures on his wife’s personal appearance at that distance
                        anyhow.—“Very charming woman, uncommonly tactful woman, Lady Calmady,” he
                        said to himself gratefully.
                    Meanwhile Lady Louisa Barking, at the other end of the table, addressed her
                        discourse to Richard and Julius, on either side of her, in the high,
                        penetrating key affected by certain ladies of distinguished social
                        pretensions. Whether this manner of speech implies a fine conviction of
                        superiority on the part of the speaker, or a conviction that all her
                        utterances are replete with intrinsic interest, it is difficult to
                        determine. Certain it is that Lady Louisa practically addressed the table,
                        the attendant men?servants, all creation in point of fact, as well as her
                        two immediate neighbours. Like her father she was large and handsome. But
                        her expression lacked his amiability, her attitude his pleasing
                        self?distrust. In age she was about six?and?thirty and decidedly mature for
                        that. She possessed a remarkable power of concentrating her mind upon her
                        own affairs. She also laboured under the impression that she was truly religious, listening weekly to the
                        sermons of fashionable preachers on the convenient text that “worldliness is
                        next to godliness” and entertaining prejudices, finely unqualified by
                        accurate knowledge, against the abominable errors of Rome.
                    “I was getting so terribly fagged with canvassing that my doctor told me I
                        really must go to Whitney and recruit. Of course Mr. Barking is perfectly
                        secure of his seat. I am in no real anxiety, I am thankful to say. He does
                        not speak much in the House. But I always feel speaking is quite a minor
                        matter, don’t you?”
                    “Doubtless,” Julius said, the remark appearing to be delivered at him in
                        particular.
                    “The great point is that your party should be able to depend absolutely upon
                        your loyalty. Being rather behind the scenes, as I can’t help being, you
                        know, I do feel that more and more. And the party depends absolutely upon
                        Mr. Barking. He has so much moral stamina, you know. That is what they all
                        feel. He is ready at any moment to sacrifice his private convictions to
                        party interests. And so few members of any real position are willing to do
                        that. And so, of course, the leaders do depend on him. All the members of
                        the Government consult him in private.”
                    “That is very flattering,” Richard remarked.—Still Helen tarried; while
                        again, glancing in the direction of the door, he encountered Lady
                        Constance’s mild, ruminant stare.
                    “Can one pronounce anything flattering when one sees it to be so completely
                        deserved?” Ludovic Quayle inquired in his most urbane manner. “Prompt and
                        perpetual sacrifice of private conviction to party interest, for example—how
                        can such devotion receive recognition beyond its deserts?”
                    “Do have some more partridge, Lady Louisa,” Richard put in hastily.
                    “In any case such recognition is very satisfactory.—No more, thank you, Sir
                        Richard,” the lady replied, not without a touch of acerbity. Ludovic was
                        very clever no doubt; but his comments often struck her as being in
                        equivocal taste. He gave a turn to your words you did not expect and so
                        broke the thread of your conversation in a rather exasperating
                        fashion.—“Very satisfactory,” she repeated. “And, of course, the
                        constituency is fully informed of the attitude of the Government towards
                        Mr.Barking, so that serious opposition is out of the question.”
                    “Oh! of course,” Richard echoed.
                    “Still I feel it a duty to canvass. One can point out many things to the
                        constituents in their own homes which might not come quite so well, don’t you know, from the
                        platform. And of course they enjoy seeing one so much.”
                    “Of course, it makes a great change for them,” Richard echoed dutifully.
                    “Exactly, and so on their account, quite putting aside the chance of securing
                        a stray vote here or there, I feel it a duty not to spare myself, but to go
                        through with it just for their sakes, don’t you know.”
                    “My sister is nothing if not altruistic, you’ll find, Calmady,” Mr. Quayle
                        here put in in his most exquisitely amiable manner.
                    But now encouraged thereto by Lady Calmady, Lord Fallowfeild had recovered
                        his accustomed serenity and discoursed with renewed cheerfulness.
                    “Great loss to this side of the county, my poor friend Denier,” he remarked.
                        “Good fellow Denier—always liked Denier. Stood by him from the first—so did
                        your son.—No, no, pardon me—yes, to be sure—excellent claret this—never
                        tasted a better luncheon claret.—But there was a little prejudice, little
                        narrowness of feeling about Denier, when he first bought Grimshott and
                        settled down here. Self?made man, you see, Denier. Entirely self?made.
                        Father was a clergyman, I believe, and I’m told his grandfather kept an
                        umbrella shop in the Strand. But a very able, right?minded man Denier, and
                        wonderfully good?natured fellow, always willing to give you an opinion on a
                        point of law. Great advantage to have a first?rate authority like that to
                        turn to in a legal difficulty. Very useful in county business Denier, and
                        laid hold of country life wonderfully, understood the obligations of a
                        land?owner. Always found a fox in that Grimshott gorse of his, eh,
                        Knott?”
                    “Fox that sometimes wasn’t very certain of his country,” the doctor rejoined.
                        “Hailed from the neighbourhood of the umbrella shop perhaps, and wanted to
                        get home to it.”
                    Lord Fallowfeild chuckled.
                    “Capital,” he said, “very good—capital! Still, it’s a great relief to know of
                        a sure find like that. Keeps the field in a good temper. Yes, few men whose
                        death I’ve regretted more than poor Denier’s. I miss Denier. Not an old man
                        either. Shouldn’t have let him slip through your fingers so early, Knott,
                        eh?”
                    “Oh! that’s a question of forestry,” John Knott answered grimly. “If one kept
                        the old wood standing, where would the saplings’ chances come in?”
                    “Oh! ah! yes—never thought of that before,”—and thinking of it now the noble
                        lord became slightly pensive. “Wonder if it’s unfair my keeping Shotover so
                        long out of the property?” he said to
                        himself. “Amusing fellow Shotover, very fond of Shotover—but extravagant
                        fellow, monstrously extravagant.”
                    “Lord Denier’s death gave our host here a seat on the local bench just at the
                        right moment,” the doctor went on. “One man’s loss is another man’s
                        opportunity. Rather rough, perhaps, on the outgoing man, but then things
                        usually are pretty rough on the outgoing man in my experience.”
                    “I suppose they are,” Lord Fallowfeild said, rather ruefully, his face
                        becoming preternaturally solemn.
                    “Not a doubt of it. The individual may get justice. I hope he does. But mercy
                        is kept for special occasions—few and far between. One must take things on
                        the large scale. Then you find they dovetail very neatly,” Knott continued,
                        with a somewhat sardonic mirthfulness. The simplicity and perplexity of this
                        handsome, kindly gentleman amused him hugely. “But to return to Lord
                        Denier—let alone my skill, that of the whole medical faculty put together
                        couldn’t have saved him.”
                    “Couldn’t it though?” said Lord Fallowfeild.
                    “That’s just the bother with your self?made man. He makes himself—true. But
                        he spends himself, physically, in the making. All his vitality goes in
                        climbing the ladder, and he’s none left over by the time he reaches the top.
                        Lord Denier had worked too hard as a youngster to make old bones. It’s a
                        long journey from the shop in the Strand to the woolsack you see, and he
                        took silk at two?and?thirty I believe. Oh yes! early death, or premature
                        decay, is the price most outsiders pay for a great professional success.
                        Isn’t that so, Mr. Ormiston?”
                    But at this juncture the conversation suffered interruption by the throwing
                        open of the door and the entrance of Madame de Vallorbes.
                    “Pray let no one move,” she said, rather as issuing an order than preferring
                        a request—for her father, Lord Fallowfeild, all the gentlemen, had risen on
                        her appearance—save Richard.—Richard, his blue eyes ablaze, the corners of
                        his mouth a?tremble, his heart going forth tumultuously to meet her, yet he
                        alone of all present denied the little obvious act of outward courtesy from
                        man to woman.
                    “Pinned to his chair, like a specimen beetle to a collector’s card,” John
                        Knott said to himself. “Poor dear lad—and with that face on him too. I hoped
                        he might have been spared taking fire a little longer. However, here’s the
                        conflagration. No question about that. Now let’s have a look at the
                        lady.”
                    And the lady, it must be conceded, manifested herself under a new and somewhat agitating aspect, as she swept
                        up the room and into the vacant place at Richard’s right hand with a rush of
                        silken skirts. She produced a singular effect at once of energy and
                        self?concentration—her lips thin and unsmiling, an ominous vertical furrow
                        between the spring of her arched eyebrows, her eyes narrow, unresponsive,
                        severe with thought under their delicate lids.
                    “I am sorry to be late, but it was unavoidable. I was kept by some letters
                        forwarded from Newlands,” she said, without giving herself the trouble of
                        looking at Richard as she spoke.
                    “What does it matter? Luncheon’s admittedly a moveable feast, isn’t it?”
                    Madame de Vallorbes made no response. A noticeable hush had descended upon
                        the whole company, while the men?servants moved to and fro serving the
                        new?comer. Even Lady Louisa Barking ceased to hold high discourse, political
                        or other, and looked disapprovingly across the table. An hour earlier she
                        had resented the younger woman’s merry wit, now she resented her sublime
                        indifference. Both then and now she found her perfect finish of appearance
                        unpardonable. Lord Fallowfeild’s disjointed conversation also suffered
                        check. He fidgeted, vaguely conscious that the atmosphere had become
                        somewhat electric.—“Monstrously pretty woman—effective woman—very
                        effective—rather dangerous though. Changeable too. Made me laugh a little
                        too much before luncheon. Louisa didn’t like it. Very correct views, my
                        daughter. Louisa. Now seems in a very odd temper. Quite the grand air, but
                        reminds me of somebody I’ve seen on the stage somehow. Suppose all that
                        comes of living so much in France,” he said to himself. But, for the life of
                        him, he could not think of anything to say aloud, though he felt it would be
                        eminently tactful to throw in a casual remark at this juncture. Little Lady
                        Constance was disquieted likewise. For she, girl?like, had fallen dumbly and
                        adoringly. in love with this beautiful stranger but a few years her senior.
                        And now the stranger appeared as an embodiment of unknown emotions and
                        energies altogether beyond the scope of her small imagination. Her innocent
                        stare lost its ruminant quality, became alarmed, tearful even, while she
                        instinctively edged her chair closer to her father’s. There was a great bond
                        of sympathy between the simple?hearted gentleman and his youngest child. Mr.
                        Quayle looked on with lifted eyebrows and his air of amused forbearance. And
                        Dr. Knott looked on also, but that which he saw pleased him but moderately.
                        The grace of every movement, the
                        distinction of face and figure, the charm of that finely?poised,
                        honey?coloured head showing up against the background of grey?blue,
                        tapestried wall, were enough—he owned,—having a very pretty taste in women
                        as well as in horses—to drive many a man crazy.—“But if the mother’s a
                        baggage, the daughter’s a vixen,” he said to himself. “And, upon my soul if
                        I had to choose between ’em—which God Almighty forbid—I’d take my chance
                        with the baggage.” As climax Lady Calmady’s expression was severe. She sat
                        very upright, and made no effort at conversation. Her nerves were a little
                        on edge. There had been awkward moments during this meal, and now her
                        niece’s entrance struck her as unfortunately accentuated, while there was
                        that in Richard’s aspect which startled the quick fears and jealousies of
                        her motherhood.
                    And to Richard himself, it must be owned, this meeting so hotly desired, and
                        against the dangers of which he had so wisely guarded, came in fashion
                        altogether different to that which he had pictured. Helen’s manner was cold
                        to a point far from flattering to his self?esteem. The subtle intimacies of
                        the scene in the Long Gallery became as though they had never been. Dickie
                        thinking over his restless night, his fierce efforts at self?conquest, those
                        long hours in the saddle designed for the reduction of a perfervid
                        imagination, wrote himself down an ass indeed. And yet—yet—the charm of
                        Helen’s presence was great! And surely she wasn’t quite herself just now,
                        there was something wrong with her? Anybody could see that. Everybody did
                        see it in fact, he feared, and commented upon it in no charitable spirit.
                        Hostility towards her declared itself on every side. He detected that—or
                        imagined he did so—in Lady Louisa’s expression, in Ludovic Quayle’s
                        extra?superfine smile, in the doctor’s close and rather cynical attitude of
                        observation, and last but not least, in the reserve of his mother’s bearing
                        and manner. And this hostility, real or imagined, begot in Richard a new
                        sensation—one of tenderness, wholly unselfish and protective, while the
                        fighting blood stirred in him. He grew slightly reckless.
                    “What has happened? We appear to have fallen most unaccountably silent,” he
                        said, looking round the table, with an air of gallant challenge good to
                        see.
                    “So we have, though,” exclaimed Lord Fallowfeild, half in relief, half in
                        apology. “Very true—was just thinking the same thing myself.”
                    While Mr. Quayle, leaning forward, inquired with much sweetness:—“To whom
                        shall I talk? Madame de Vallorbes is far
                        more profitably engaged in discussing her luncheon, than she could be in
                        discussing any conceivable topic of conversation with such as I. And Dr.
                        Knott is so evidently diagnosing an interesting case that I have not the
                        effrontery to interrupt him.”
                    Disregarding these comments Richard turned to his neighbour on the left.
                    “I beg your pardon, Lady Louisa,” he said, “but before this singular dumbness
                        overtook us all, you were saying?”—
                    The lady addressed, electing to accept this as a tribute to the knowledge,
                        the weight, and distinction, of her discourse, thawed, became condescending
                        and gracious again.
                    “I believe we were discussing the prospects of the party,” she replied. “I
                        was saying that, you know, of course there must be a large Liberal
                        majority.”
                    “Yes, of course.”
                    “You consider that assured?” Julius put in civilly.
                    “It is not a matter of personal opinion, I am thankful to say—because of
                        course everyone must feel it is just everything for the country. There is no
                        doubt at all about the majority among those who really know—Mr. Barking, for
                        instance. Nobody can be in a better position to judge than he is. And then I
                        was speaking the other night to Augustus Tremiloe at Lord Combmartin’s—not
                        William, you know, but Augustus Tremiloe, the man in the Treasury, and
                        he”—
                    “Uncommonly fine chrysanthemums those,” Lord Fallowfeild had broken forth
                        cheerfully, finding sufficient, if tardy, inspiration in the table
                        decorations. “Remarkably perfect blossoms. and charming colour. Nothing
                        nearly so good at Whitney this autumn. Excellent fellow my head?gardener,
                        but rather past his work—no enterprise, can’t make him go in for new
                        ideas.”
                    Mr. Ormiston, leaning across Dr. Knott, addressed himself to Ludovic, while
                        casting occasional and rather anxious glances upon his daughter. Thus did
                        voices rise, mingle, and the talk get fairly upon its legs again. Then
                        Richard permitted himself to say quietly:—
                    “You had no bad news, I hope, in those letters, Helen?”
                    “Why should you suppose I have had bad news?” she demanded, her teeth meeting
                        viciously in the morsel of kissing?crust she held in her rosy?tipped
                        fingers.
                    It was as pretty as a game to see her eat. Dickie laughed a little, charmed
                        even with her naughtiness, embarrassed too by the directness of her
                        question.
                    
                    “Oh! I don’t exactly know why—I thought perhaps you seemed”—
                    “You do know quite exactly why,” the young lady asserted, looking full at
                        him. “You saw that I was in a detestable, a diabolic temper.”
                    “Well, perhaps I did think I saw something of the sort,” Richard answered
                        audaciously, yet very gently.
                    Helen continued to look at him, and as she did so her cheek rounded, her
                        mouth grew soft, the vertical line faded out from her forehead.—“You are
                        very assuaging, cousin Richard,” she said, and she too laughed softly.
                    “Understands the vineries very well though,” Lord Fallowfeild was saying,
                        “and doesn’t grow bad peaches, not at all bad peaches, but is stupid about
                        flowers. He ought to retire. Never shall have really satisfactory gardens
                        till he does retire. And yet I haven’t the heart to tell him to go. Good
                        fellow, you know, good, honest, hard?working fellow, and had a lot of
                        trouble. Wife ailing for years, always ailing, and youngest child got hip
                        disease—nasty thing hip disease, very nasty—quite a cripple, poor little
                        creature, I am afraid a hopeless cripple. Terrible anxiety and burden for
                        parents in that rank of life, you know.”
                    “It can hardly be otherwise in any rank of life,” Lady Calmady said slowly,
                        bitterly. An immense weariness was upon her—weariness of the actual and
                        present, weariness of the possible and the future. Her courage ebbed. She
                        longed to go away, to be alone for a while, to shut eyes and ears, to deaden
                        alike perception and memory, to have it all cease. Then it was as though
                        those two beautiful, and now laughing, faces of man and woman in the glory
                        of their youth, seen over the perspective of fair, white damask, glittering
                        glass and silver, rich dishes, graceful profusion of flowers and fruit, at
                        the far end of the avenue of guests, mocked at her. Did they not mock at the
                        essential conditions of their own lives too? Katherine feared, consciously
                        or unconsciously they did that. Her weariness dragged upon her with almost
                        despairing weight.
                    “Do you get your papers the same day here, Sir Richard?” Lady Louisa asked
                        imperatively.
                    “Yes, they come with the second post letters, about five o’clock,” Julius
                        March answered.
                    But Lady Louisa Barking intended to be attended to by her host.
                    “Sir Richard,” she paused, “I am asking whether your papers reach you the
                        same day?”
                    
                    And Dickie replied he knew not what, for he had just registered the discovery
                        that barriers are quite useless against a certain sort of intimacy. Be the
                        crowd never so thick about you, in a sense at least, you are always alone,
                        exquisitely, delicately alone with the person you love.
                
                
                    CHAPTER VIII
                    RICHARD PUTS HIS HAND TO A PLOUGH FROM WHICH THERE IS NO
                        TURNING BACK
                    “DEAREST mother, you look most deplorably tired.”
                    Richard sat before the large study table, piled up with letters, papers,
                        county histories, racing calendars, in the Gun?Room, amid a haze of cigar
                        smoke.—“I don’t wonder,” he went on, “we’ve had a regular field?day, haven’t
                        we? And I’m afraid Lord Fallowfeild bored you atrociously at luncheon. He
                        does talk most admired foolishness half his time, poor old boy. All the same
                        Ludovic shouldn’t show him up as he does. It’s not good form. I’m afraid
                        Ludovic’s getting rather spoilt by London. He’s growing altogether too
                        finicking and elaborate. It’s a pity. Lady Louisa Barking is a rather
                        exterminating person. Her conversation is magnificently deficient in humour.
                        It is to be hoped Barking is not troubled by lively perceptions, or he must
                        suffer at times. Lady Constance is a pretty little girl, don’t you think so?
                        Not oppressed with brains, I daresay, but a good little sort.”
                    “You liked her?” Katherine said. She stood beside him, that mortal weariness
                        upon her yet.
                    “Oh yes!—well enough—liked her in passing, as one likes the wild roses in the
                        hedge. But you look regularly played out, mother, and I don’t like that in
                        the least.”
                    Richard twisted the revolving?chair half round, and held out his arms in
                        invitation. As his mother leaned over him, he stretched upward and clasped
                        his hands lightly about her neck.—“Poor dear,” he said coaxingly, “worn to
                        fiddle?strings with all this wild dissipation! I declare it’s quite
                        pathetic.”—He let her go, shrugging his shoulders with a sigh and a half
                        laugh. “Well, the dissipation will soon enough be over now, and we shall
                        resume the even tenor of our way, I suppose. You’ll be glad of that,
                        mother?”
                    The caress had been grateful to Katherine, the cool cheek dear to her lips, the clasp of the strong arms
                        reassuring. Yet, in her present state of depression, she was inclined to
                        distrust even that which consoled, and there seemed a lack in the fervour of
                        this embrace. Was it not just a trifle perfunctory, as of one who pays toll,
                        rather than of one who claims a privilege?
                    “You’ll be glad too, my dearest, I trust?” she said, craving further
                        encouragement.
                    Richard twisted the chair back into place again, leaned forward to note the
                        hour of the clock set in the centre of the gold and enamel inkstand.
                    “Oh! I’m not prophetic. I don’t pretend to go before the event and register
                        my sensations until both they and I have fairly arrived. It’s awfully bad
                        economy to get ahead of yourself and live in the day after to?morrow.
                        To?day’s enough—more than enough for you, I’m afraid, when you’ve had a
                        large contingent of the Whitney people to luncheon. Do go and rest, mother.
                        Uncle William is disposed of. I’ve started him out for a tramp with Julius,
                        so you need not have him on your mind.”
                    But neither in Richard’s words nor in his manner did Lady Calmady find the
                        fulness of assurance she craved.
                    “Thanks, dearest,” she said. “That is very thoughtful of you. I will see
                        Helen and find out”—
                    “Oh! don’t trouble about her either,” Richard put in. Again he studied the
                        jewel?rimmed dial of the little clock. “I found she wanted to go to Newlands
                        to bid Mrs. Cathcart good?bye. It seems Miss St. Quentin is back there for a
                        day or two. So I promised to drive her over as soon as we were quit of the
                        Fallowfeild party.”
                    “It is late for so long a drive.”
                    Richard looked up quickly and his face wore that expression of challenge once
                        again.
                    “I know it is—and so I am afraid we ought to start at once. I expect the
                        carriage round immediately.”—Then repenting:—“You’ll take care of yourself,
                        won’t you, mother, and rest?”
                    “Oh yes! I will take care of myself,” Katherine said. “Indeed, I appear to be
                        the only person I have left to take care of, thanks to your forethought. All
                        good go with you, Dick.”
                    It followed—perhaps unreasonably enough—that Richard, some five minutes
                        later, drove round the angle of the house and drew the mail?phaeton up at
                        the foot of the grey, griffin?guarded
                        flight of steps—whereon Madame de Vallorbes, wrapped in furs, the cavalier
                        hat and its trailing plumes shadowing the upper part of her face and her
                        bright hair, awaited his coming—in a rather defiant humour. His cousin was
                        troubled, worried, and she met with scant sympathy. This aroused all his
                        chivalry. Whatever she wished for, that he could give her, she should very
                        certainly have. Of after consequences to himself he was contemptuous. The
                        course of action which had shown as wisdom a couple of hours ago, showed now
                        as selfishness and pusillanimity. If she wanted him, he was there joyfully
                        to do her bidding, at whatever cost to himself in subsequent unrest of mind
                        seemed but a small thing. If heartache and insidious provocations of the
                        flesh came later, let them come. He was strong enough to bear the one and
                        crush out the other, he hoped. It would give him something to do—he told
                        himself, a little bitterly—and he had been idle of late!
                    And so it came about that Richard Calmady held out his hand, to help his
                        cousin into her place at his side, with more of meaning and welcome in the
                        gesture than he was quite aware. He forgot the humiliation of the broad
                        strap about his waist, of the high, ingeniously contrived driving?iron
                        against which his feet rested, steadying him upon the sharply sloping seat.
                        These were details, objectionable ones it was true, but, to?day, of very
                        secondary importance. In the main he was master of the situation. For once
                        it was his to render, rather than receive, assistance. Helen was under his
                        care, in a measure dependent on him, and this gratified his young, masculine
                        pride, doomed too often to suffer sharp mortification. A fierce pleasure
                        possessed him. It was fine to bear her thus away, behind the fast trotting
                        horses, through the pensive, autumn brightness. Boyish self?consciousness
                        and self?distrust died down in Richard, and the man’s self?reliance,
                        instinct of possession and of authority, grew in him. His tone was that of
                        command, for all its solicitude, as he said:—
                    “Look here, are you sure you’ve got enough on? Don’t go and catch cold, under
                        the impression that there’s any meaning in this sunshine. It is sure to be
                        chilly driving home, and it’s easy to take more wraps.”
                    Helen shook her head, unsmiling, serious.
                    “I could face polar snows.”
                    Richard let the horses spring forward, while little pebbles rattled against
                        the body of the phaeton, and the groom, running a few steps, swung himself
                        up on to the back seat, immediately
                        becoming immoveable as a wooden image, with rigidly folded arms.
                    “Oh! the cold won’t quite amount to that,” Richard said. “But I observe women
                        rarely reckon with the probabilities of the return journey.”
                    “The return journey is invariably too hot, or too cold, too soon, or too
                        late—for a woman. So it is better not to remember its existence until you
                        are compelled to do so. For myself, I confess to the strongest prejudice
                        against the return journey.”
                    Madame de Vallorbes’ speech was calm and measured, yet there was a conviction
                        in it suggestive of considerable emotion. She sat well back in the carriage,
                        her head turned slightly to the left, so that Richard, looking down at her,
                        saw little but the pure, firm line of her jaw, the contour of her cheek, and
                        her ear—small, lovely, the soft hair curling away from above and behind it
                        in the most enticing fashion. Physical perfection, of necessity, provoked in
                        him a peculiar envy and delight. And nature appeared to have taken ingenious
                        pleasure, not only in conferring an unusual degree of beauty upon his
                        companion, but in finishing each detail of her person with unstinted grace.
                        For a while the young man lost himself in contemplation of that charming ear
                        and partially averted face. Then resolutely he bestowed his attention upon
                        the horses again, finding such contemplation slightly enervating to his
                        moral sense.
                    “Yes, return journeys are generally rather a nuisance, I suppose,” he said,
                        “though my experience of that particular form of nuisance is limited. I have
                        not been outward?bound often enough to know much of the regret of being
                        homeward?bound. And yet, I own, I should not much mind driving on and on
                        everlastingly on a dreamy afternoon like this, and—and as I find myself just
                        now—driving on and seeking some El Dorado—of the spirit, I mean, not of the
                        pocket—seeking the Fortunate Isles that lie beyond the sunset. For it would
                        be not a little fascinating to give one’s accustomed self, and all that goes
                        to make up one’s accepted identity, the slip—to drive clean out of one’s old
                        circumstances and find new heavens, a new earth, and a new personality
                        elsewhere. What do you say, Helen, shall we try it?”
                    But Helen sat immobile, her face averted, listening intently, revolving many
                        things in her mind, meditating how and when most advantageously to
                        speak.
                    “It would be such an amiable and graceful experiment to try on my own people,
                        too, wouldn’t it ?” the young man con?
                        tinued, with a sudden change of tone. “And I am so eminently fitted to lose
                        myself in a crowd without fear of recognition, just the person for a case of
                        mistaken identity.”
                    “Do not say such things, Richard, please. They distress me,” Madame de
                        Vallorbes put in quickly. “And, believe me, I have no quarrel with the
                        return journey in this case. At Brockhurst I could fancy myself to have
                        found the Fortunate Isles of which you spoke just now. I have been very
                        happy there—too happy, perhaps, and therefore, to?day, the whip has come
                        down across my back, just to remind me.”
                    “Ah! now you say the painful things,” Dick interrupted. “Pray don’t—I—I don’t
                        like them.”
                    Madame de Vallorbes turned her head and looked at him with the strangest
                        expression.
                    “My metaphor was not out of place. Do you imagine horses are the only animals
                        a man drives, mon beau cousin? Some men
                        drive the woman who belongs to them, and that not with the lightest bit, I
                        promise you. Nor do they forget to tie blood?knots in the whip?lash when it
                        suits them to do so.”
                    “What do you mean?” he asked abruptly.
                    “Merely that the letters, which so stupidly endangered my self?control at
                        luncheon, contained examples of that kind of driving.”
                    “How—how damnable,” the young man said between his teeth.
                    The red and purple trunks of the great fir trees reeled away to right and
                        left as the carriage swept forward down the long avenue. To Richard’s seeing
                        they reeled away in disgust, even as did his thought from the images which
                        his companion’s words suggested. While, to her seeing, they reeled, smitten
                        by the eternal laughter, the echoes of which it stimulated her to hear.—“The
                        drama develops,” she said to herself, half triumphant, half abashed. “And
                        yet I am telling the truth, it is all so—I hardly even doctor it.”—For she
                        had been angered, genuinely and miserably angered, and had found that odious
                        to the point of letting feeling override diplomacy. There was subtle
                        pleasure in now turning her very lapse of self?control to her own advantage.
                        And then, this young man’s heart was the finest, purest?toned instrument
                        upon which she had ever had the chance to play as yet. She was ravished by
                        the quality and range of the music it gave forth. Madame de Vallorbes
                        pressed her hands together within the warm comfort of her sable muff,
                        averted her face again, lest it should betray the eager excitement that
                        gained on her, and continued:—
                    
                    “Yes, whip and rein and bit are hardly pretty in that connection, are they?
                        If you would willingly give your identity the slip at times, dear cousin, I
                        have considerably deeper cause to wish to part company with mine! You, in
                        any case, are morally and materially free. A whole class of particularly
                        irritating and base cares can never approach you. And it was in connection
                        with just such cares that I spoke of the hatefulness of return
                        journeys.”
                    Helen paused, as one making an effort to maintain her equanimity.
                    “My letters recall me to Paris,” she said, “where detestable scenes and most
                        ignoble anxieties await me.”
                    “How soon must you go?”
                    “That is what I ask myself,” she said, in the same quiet, even voice. “I have
                        not yet arrived at a decision, and so I asked you to bring me out, Dickie,
                        this afternoon.”—She looked up at him, smiling, lovely and with a certain
                        wistful dignity, wholly coercive. “Can you understand that the orderly
                        serenity of your splendid house became a little oppressive? It offered too
                        glaring a contrast to my own state of mind and outlook. I fancied my brain
                        would be clearer, my conclusions more just, here out of doors, face to face
                        with this half?savage nature.”
                    “Ah, I know all that,” Richard said. Had not the blankness of the fog brought
                        him help this very morning?—“I know it, but I wish you did not know it
                        too.”
                    “I know many things better not known,” Helen replied. Her conscience pricked
                        her. She thanked her stars confession had ceased with enlargement from the
                        convent?school, and was a thing of the past.—“You see, I want to decide just
                        how long I dare stay—if you will keep me?”
                    “We will keep you,” Richard said.
                    “You are very charming to me, Dick,” she exclaimed impulsively, sincerely,
                        again slightly abashed. “How long can I dare stay, I wonder, without making
                        matters worse in the end, both for my father and for myself? I am young,
                        after all, and I suppose I am tough. The cuticle of the soul—if souls can
                        have a cuticle—like that of the body, thickens under repeated blows. But my
                        father is no longer young. He is terribly sensitive where I am concerned.
                        And he is inevitably drawn into the whirlpool of my wretched affairs sooner
                        or later. On his account I should be glad to defer the return journey as
                        long”—
                    “But—but—I don’t understand,” Richard broke out, pity and deep concern for
                        her, a blind fury against a person, or persons unknown, getting the better of him. “Who on earth
                        has the power to plague you and make you miserable, or your father
                        either?”
                    The young man’s face was white, his eyes, full of pain, full of a great love,
                        burning down on her. As once long ago, Helen de Vallorbes could have danced
                        and clapped her hands in naughty glee. For her hunting had prospered above
                        her fondest hopes. She had much ado to stifle the laughter which bubbled up
                        in her pretty throat. She was in the humour to pelt peacocks royally, had
                        such pastime been possible. As it was, she closed her eyes for a little
                        minute and waited, biting the inside of her lip. At last, she said slowly,
                        almost solemnly:—
                    “Don’t you know that for certain mistakes, and those usually the most
                        generous, there is no redress?”
                    “What do you mean?” he demanded.
                    “Mean?—the veriest commonplace in my own case,” she answered. “Merely an
                        unhappy marriage. There are thousands such.”
                    They had left the shadow of the fir woods now. The carriage crossed the
                        white?railed culvert—bridging the little stream that taking its rise amid
                        the pink and emerald mosses of the peat?bog, meanders down the valley—and
                        entered the oak plantation just inside the park gate. Russet leaves in
                        rustling, hurrying companies, fled up and away from the rapidly turning
                        wheels and quick horse hoofs. The sunshine was wan and chill as the smile on
                        a dead face. Lines of pale, lilac cloud—shaped like those flights of cranes
                        which decorate the oriental cabinets of the Long Gallery—crossed the western
                        sky above the bare, balsam poplars, the cluster of ancient, half?timbered
                        cottages at the entrance to Sandyfield church lane, and the rise of the
                        grey?brown fallow beyond, where sheep moved, bleating plaintively, within a
                        wattled fold.
                    The scene, altogether familiar though it was, impressed itself on Richard’s
                        mind just now, as one of paralysing melancholy. God help us, what a
                        stricken, famished world it is! Will you not always find sorrow and
                        misfortune seated at the root of things if, disregarding overlaying
                        prettiness of summer days, of green leaf and gay blossom, you dare draw
                        near, dig deep, look close? And can nothing, no one, escape the blighting
                        touch of that canker stationed at the very foundations of being? Certainly
                        it would seem not—Richard reasoned—listening to the words of the radiant
                        woman beside him, ordained, in right of her talent and puissant grace, to be
                        a queen and idol of men. For sadder than the thin sunshine, bare trees and
                        complaint of the hungry sheep, was that
                        assured declaration that loveless and unlovely marriages—of which her own
                        was one—exist by the thousand, are, indeed, the veriest commonplace!
                    These reflections held Richard, since he had been thinker and poet—in his
                        degree—since childhood; lover only during the brief space of these last ten
                        surprising days. Thus the general application claimed his attention first.
                        But hard on the heels of this followed the personal application. For, as is
                        the way of all true lovers, the universality of the law under which it takes
                        its rise mitigates, by most uncommonly little, either the joy or sorrow of
                        the particular case. Poignant regret that she suffered, strong admiration
                        that she bore suffering so adherent with such lightness of demeanour—then,
                        more dangerous than these, a sense of added unlooked?for nearness to her,
                        and a resultant calling not merely of the spirit of youth in him to that
                        same spirit resident in her, but the deeper, more compelling, more sonorous
                        call from the knowledge of tragedy in him to that same terrible knowledge
                        now first made evident in her.—And here Richard’s heart—in spite of pity, in
                        spite of tenderness which would have borne a hundred miseries to save her
                        five minutes’ discomfort—sang Te Deum, and that lustily enough!
                        For by this revelation of the infelicity of her state, his whole relation
                        to, and duty towards her changed and took on a greater freedom. To pour
                        forth worship and offers of service at the feet of a happy woman is at once
                        an impertinence to her and a shame to yourself. But to pour forth such
                        worship, such offers of service, at the feet of an unhappy woman—age?old
                        sophistry, so often ruling the speech and actions of men to their fatal
                        undoing!—this is praiseworthy and legitimate, a matter not of privilege
                        merely, but of obligation to whoso would claim to be truly chivalrous.
                    The perception of his larger liberty, and the consequences following thereon,
                        kept Richard silent till Sandyfield rectory, the squat?towered, Georgian
                        church and the black?headed, yew trees in the close?packed churchyard
                        adjoining, the neighbouring farm and its goodly show of golden?grey
                        wheat?ricks were left behind, and the carriage entered on the flat,
                        furze?dotted expanse of Sandyfield common. Flocks of geese, arising from
                        damp repose upon the ragged, autumn turf, hissed forth futile declarations
                        of war. A gipsy caravan painted in staring colours, and hung all over with
                        heath?brooms and basket?chairs, caused the horses to swerve. Parties of
                        home?going school?children backed on to the loose gravel at the roadside,
                        bobbing curtsies or pulling forelocks, staring at the young man and his
                        companion, curious and half afraid. For, in the youthful, bucolic mind, a
                        mystery surrounded Richard Calmady and his
                        goings and comings, causing him to rank with crowned heads, ghosts, the Book
                        of Daniel, funerals, the Northern Lights, and kindred matters of dread
                        fascination. So wondering eyes pursued him down the road.
                    And wondering eyes, as the minutes passed, glanced up at him from beneath the
                        sweeping plumes and becoming shadow of the cavalier’s hat. For his prolonged
                        silence rendered Madame de Vallorbes anxious. Had she spoken unadvisedly
                        with her tongue? Had her words sounded crude and of questionable delicacy?
                        Given his antecedents and upbringing, Richard was bound to hold the marriage
                        tie in rather superstitious reverence, and was likely to entertain slightly
                        superannuated views regarding the obligation of reticence in the discussion
                        of family matters. She feared she had reckoned insufficiently with all this,
                        in her eagerness, forgetting subtle diplomacies. Her approach had lacked
                        tact and finesse. In dealing with an
                        adversary of coarser fibre her attack would have succeeded to admiration.
                        But this man was refined and sensitive to a fault, easily disgusted,
                        narrowly critical in questions of taste.
                    Therefore she glanced up at him again, trying to divine his thought, her own
                        mind in a tumult of opposing purposes and desires. And just as the
                        contemplation of her beauty had so deeply stirred him earlier this same
                        afternoon, so did the contemplation of his beauty now stir her. It satisfied
                        her artistic sense. Save that the nose was straighter and shorter, the young
                        man reminded her notably of a certain antique, terra?cotta head of the young
                        Alexander which she had once seen in a museum at Munich, and which had left
                        an ineffaceable impression upon her memory. But, the face of the young
                        Alexander beside her was of nobler moral quality than that other—undebauched
                        by feasts and licentious pleasures as yet, masculine yet temperate, the
                        sanctuary of generous ambitions. Merciless it might be, she fancied, but
                        never base, never weak. Thus was her artistic sense satisfied, morally as
                        well as physically. Her social sense was satisfied also. For the young man’s
                        high?breeding could not be called in question. He held himself remarkably
                        well. She approved the cut of his clothes moreover, his sure and easy
                        handling of the spirited horses.
                    And then her eyes, following down the lines of the fur rug, received renewed
                        assurance of the fact of his deformity—hidden as far as might be, with
                        decent pride, yet there, permanent and unalterable. This worked upon her
                        strongly. For, to her peculiar temperament, the indissoluble union in one
                        body of elements so noble and so monstrous, of youthful rigour and abject helplessness, the grotesque in
                        short, supplied the last word of sensuous and dramatic attraction. As last
                        evening, in the Long Gallery, so now, she hugged herself, at once frightened
                        and fascinated, wrought upon by excitement as in the presence of something
                        akin to the supernatural, and altogether beyond the confines of ordinary
                        experience.
                    And to think that she had come so near holding this inimitable creature in
                        her hand, and by overhaste, or clumsiness of statement should lose it!
                        Madame de Vallorbes was wild with irritation, racked her brain for means to
                        recover her—as she feared—forfeited position. It would be maddening did her
                        mighty hunting prove but a barren pastime in the end. And thereupon the
                        little scar on her temple, deftly concealed under the soft, bright hair,
                        began to smart and throb. Ah! well, the hunting should not prove quite
                        barren anyhow, of that she was determined, for, failing her late gay
                        purpose, that small matter of long?deferred revenge still remained in
                        reserve. If she could not gratify one passion, she would gratify quite
                        another. For in this fair lady’s mind it was—perhaps unfortunately—but one
                        step from the Eden bowers of love to the waste places of vindictive
                        hate.—“Yet I would rather be good to him, far rather,” she said to herself,
                        with a movement of quite pathetic sincerity.
                    But here, just at the entrance to the village street, an altogether
                        unconscious deus ex machinâ—destined at
                        once to relieve Helen of further anxiety, and commit poor Dickie to a course
                        of action affecting the whole of his subsequent career—presented itself in
                        the shape of a white?tented miller’s waggon, which, with somnolent jingle of
                        harness bells and most admired deliberation, moved down the centre of the
                        road. A yellow?washed garden?wall on one side, the brook on the other, there
                        was not room for the phaeton to pass.
                    “Whistle,” Richard commanded over his shoulder. And the wooden image, thereby
                        galvanised into immediate activity, whistled shrilly, but without result as
                        far as the waggon was concerned.
                    “The fellow’s asleep. Go and tell him to pull out of the way.”
                    Then, while the groom ran neatly forward in twinkling, white breeches and
                        flesh?coloured tops, Richard, bending towards her, as far as that
                        controlling strap about his waist permitted, shifted the reins into his
                        right hand and laid his left upon Madame de Vallorbes’ sable muff.
                    “Look here, Helen,” he said, rather hoarsely, “I am inde? scribably shocked at what you have just told me.
                        I supposed it was all so different with you. I’d no suspicion of this.
                        And?and—if I may say so, you’ve taught me a lesson which has gone
                        home—steady there—steady, good lass”—for the horses danced and snorted.—“I
                        don’t think I shall ever grumble much in future about troubles of my own,
                        having seen how splendidly you bear yours. Only I can’t agree with you no
                        remedy is possible for generous mistakes. The world isn’t quite so badly
                        made as all that. There is a remedy for every mistake except—a few physical
                        ones, which we euphuistically describe as visitations of God.—Steady, steady
                        there—wait a bit.—And I—I tell you I can’t sit down under this unhappiness
                        of yours and just put up with it. Don’t think me a meddling fool, please.
                        Something’s got to be done. I know I probably appear to you the last person
                        in the world to be of use. And yet I’m not sure about that. I have time—too
                        much of it—and I’m not quite an ass. And you—you must know, I think, there’s
                        nothing in heaven or earth I would not do for you that I could”—
                    The miller hauled his slow?moving team aside, with beery?thick objurgations
                        and apologies. The groom swung himself up at the back of the carriage again.
                        The impatient horses, getting their heads, swung away down Sandyfield
                        Street—scattering a litter of merry, little, black pigs and many remonstrant
                        fowls to right and left—past modest village shop, and yellow?washed tavern,
                        and red, lichen?stained cottage, beneath the row of tall Lombardy poplars
                        that raised their brown?grey spires to the blue?grey of the autumn sky.
                        Richard’s left hand held the reins again.
                    “Half confidences are no good,” he said. “So, as you’ve trusted me thus far,
                        Helen, don’t you think you will trust somewhat further? Be explicit. Tell me
                        the rest.”
                    And hearing him, seeing him, just then, Madame de Vallorbes’ heart melted
                        within her, and, to her own prodigious surprise, she had much ado not to
                        weep.
                
                
                    CHAPTER IX
                    WHICH TOUCHES INCIDENTALLY ON MATTERS OF FINANCE
                    AS Richard had predicted the fog reappeared towards sunset. At
                        first, as a frail mist, through which the landscape looked colourless and
                        blurred. Later it rose, growing in density, until all objects beyond a
                        radius of some twenty paces were engulfed
                        in its nothingness and lost. Later still—while Helen de Vallorbes paid her
                        visit at Newlands—it grew denser yet, heavy, torpid, close yet cold,
                        penetrated by earthy odours as the atmosphere of a vault, oppressive to the
                        senses, baffling to sight and hearing alike. From out it, half?leafless
                        branches, like gaunt arms in tattered draperies, seemed to claw and beckon
                        at the passing carriage and its occupants. The silver mountings of the
                        harness showed in points and splashes of hard, shining white as against the
                        shifting, universal dead?whiteness of it, while the breath from the horses’
                        nostrils rose into it as defiant jets of steam, that struggled momentarily
                        with the opaque, all?enveloping vapour, only to be absorbed and obliterated
                        as light by darkness, or life by death.
                    The aspect presented by nature was sinister, had Richard Calmady been
                        sufficiently at leisure to observe it in detail. But, as he slowly walked
                        the horses up and down the quarter of a mile of woodland drive, leading from
                        the thatched lodge on the right of the Westchurch road to the house, he was
                        not at leisure. He had received enlightenment on many subjects. He had
                        acquired startling impressions, and he needed to place these, to bring them
                        into line with the general habit of his thought. The majority of educated
                        persons—so?called—think in words, words often arbitrary and inaccurate
                        enough, prolific mothers of mental confusion. The minority, and those of by
                        no means contemptible intellectual calibre,—since the symbol must count for
                        more than the mere label,—think in images and pictures. Dickie belonged to
                        the minority. And it must be conceded that his mind now projected against
                        that shifting, impalpable background of fog, a series of pictures which in
                        their cynical pathos, their suggestions at once voluptuous and degraded,
                        were hardly unworthy of the great master, William Hogarth, himself.
                    For Helen, in the reaction and relief caused by finding her relation to
                        Richard unimpaired, caused too by that joyous devilry resident in her and
                        constantly demanding an object on which to wreak its derision, had by no
                        means spared her lord and master, Angelo Luigi Francesco, Vicomte de
                        Vallorbes. And this only son of a thrifty, hard?bitten, Savoyard
                        banker?noble and a Neapolitan princess of easy morals and ancient lineage,
                        this Parisian viveur, his intrigues, his
                        jealousies, his practical ungodliness and underlying superstition, his
                        outbursts of temper, his shrewd economy in respect of others, and extensive
                        personal extravagance, offered fit theme, with aid of little romancing, for
                        such a discourse as it just now suited his very brilliant, young wife to
                        pronounce.
                    
                    The said discourse opened in a low key, broken by pauses, by tactful
                        self?accusations, by questionings as to whether it were not more merciful,
                        more loyal, to leave this or that untold. But as she proceeded, not only did
                        Helen suffer the seductions of the fine art of lying, but she really began
                        to have some ado to keep her exuberant sense of fun within due limits. For
                        it proved so excessively exhilarating to deal thus with Angelo Luigi
                        Francesco! She had old scores to settle. And had she not this very day
                        received an odiously disquieting letter from him, in which he not only made
                        renewed complaint of her poor, little miseries of debts and flirtations, but
                        once more threatened retaliation by a cutting?off of supplies? In common
                        justice did he not deserve vilification? Therefore, partly out of revenge,
                        partly in self?justification, she proceeded with increasing enthusiasm to
                        show that to know M. de Vallorbes was a lamentably liberal education in all
                        civilised iniquities. With a hand, sure as it was light, she dissected out
                        the unhappy gentleman, and offered up his mangled and bleeding reputation as
                        tribute to her own so?perpetually?outraged moral sense and feminine
                        delicacy, not to mention her so?repeatedly and vilely wounded heart. And
                        there really was truth—as at each fresh flight of her imagination she did
                        not fail to remind herself—in all that which she said. Truth?—yes, just that
                        misleading sufficiency of it in which a lie thrives. For, as every artist
                        “in this kind” is aware, precisely as you would have the overgrowth of your
                        improvisation richly phenomenal and preposterous, must you be careful to set
                        the root of it in the honest soil of fact. To omit this precaution is to
                        court eventual detection and consequent confusion of face.
                    As it was, Helen entered the house at Newlands, a house singularly unused to
                        psychological aberrations, in buoyant spirits, mischief sitting in her
                        discreetly downcast eyes, laughter perplexing her lips. She had placed her
                        cargo of provocation, of resentment, to such excellent advantage! She was,
                        moreover, slightly intoxicated by her own eloquence. She was at peace with
                        herself and all mankind, with de Vallorbes even since his sins had afforded
                        her so rare an opportunity. And this occasioned her to congratulate herself
                        on her own conspicuous magnanimity. It is so exceedingly pleasing not only
                        to know yourself clever, but to believe yourself good! She would be charming
                        to these dear, kind, rather dull people. Not that Honoria was dull, but she
                        had inconveniently austere notions of honour and loyalty at moments. And
                        then the solitary drive home with Richard Calmady lay ahead, full of
                        possible drama, full of, well, Heaven knew what! Oh! how entrancing a
                        pastime is life!
                    
                    But to Richard, walking the snorting and impatient horses slowly up and down
                        the woodland drive in the blear and sightless fog, life appeared quite other
                        than an entrancing pastime. The pictures projected by his thought, and
                        forming the medium of it, caused him black indignation and revolt, desolated
                        him, too, with a paralysing disgust of his own disabilities. For poor Dick
                        had declined somewhat in the last few hours, it must be owned, from the
                        celestial altitudes he had reached before luncheon. Some part of his
                        cousin’s discourse had been dangerously intimate in character, suggesting
                        situations quite other than platonic. To him there appeared a noble
                        innocence in her treatment of matters not usually spoken of. He had listened
                        with a certain reverent amazement. Only out of purity of mind could such
                        speech come. And yet an undeniable effect remained, and it was not
                        altogether elevating. Richard was no longer the young Sir Galahad of the
                        noontide of this eventful day. He was just simply a man—in a sensible degree
                        the animal man—loving a woman, hating that other man to whom she was legally
                        bound. Hating that other man, not only because he was unworthy and failed to
                        make her happy, but because he stood in his—Richard’s—way. Hating the man
                        all the more fiercely because, whatever the uncomeliness of his moral
                        constitution, he was physically very far from uncomely. And so, along with
                        nobler incitements to hatred, went the fiend envy, which just now plucked at
                        poor Dickie’s vitals as the vulture at those of the chained Titan of old.
                        Whereupon he fell into a meditation somewhat morbid. For, contemplating in
                        pictured thought that other man’s bodily perfection, contemplating his
                        property and victim,—the fair modern Helen, who by her courage and her
                        trials exercised so potent a spell over his imagination,—Richard loathed his
                        own maimed body, maimed chances and opportunities, as he had never loathed
                        them before. How often since his childhood had some casual circumstance or
                        trivial accident brought the fact of his misfortune home to him, causing
                        him—as he at the moment supposed—to reckon, once and for all, with the sum
                        total of it! But, as years passed and experience widened, below each depth
                        of this adhering misery another deep disclosed itself. Would he never reach
                        bottom? Would this inalienable disgrace continue to show itself more
                        restricting and impeding to his action, more repulsive and contemptible to
                        his fellow?men, through all the succeeding stages and vicissitudes of his
                        career, right to the very close?
                    To her hosts Madame de Vallorbes appeared in her gayest and most engaging
                        humour.—“It was only a flying visit, she
                        mustn’t stay, Richard was waiting for her. Only she felt she must just have
                        two words with Honoria. And say good?bye? Yes, ten thousand sorrows, it was
                        good?bye. She was recalled to Paris, home, and duty”—She made an expressive
                        little grimace at Miss St. Quentin.
                    “Your husband will be”—began Mrs. Cathcart, in her large, gently
                        authoritative manner. 
                    “Enchanted to see me, of course, dear cousin Selina, or he would not have
                        required my return thus urgently. We may take that for said. Meanwhile what
                        strange sprigs of nobility flourish in the local soil here.”
                    And she proceeded to give an account of the Fallowfeild party at luncheon,
                        more witty, perhaps, than veracious. Helen could be extremely entertaining
                        on occasion. She gave reins to her tongue, and it galloped away with her in
                        most surprising fashion.
                    “My dear, my dear,” interrupted her hostess, “you are a little unkind surely!
                        My dear, you are a little flippant!”
                    But Madame de Vallorbes enveloped her in the most assuaging embrace.
                    “Let me laugh while I can, dearest cousin Selina,” she pleaded. “I have had a
                        delightful, little holiday. Everyone has been charming to me. You, of
                        course—but then you always are that. Your presence breathes consolation. But
                        Aunt Katherine has been charming too, and that, quite between ourselves, was
                        a little more than I anticipated. Now the holiday draws to a close and
                        pay?day looms large ahead. You know nothing about such pay?days thank
                        Heaven, dear cousin Selina. They are far from joyous inventions; and so”—the
                        young lady spread abroad her hands, palms upward, and shrugged her shoulders
                        under their weight of costly furs—“and so I laugh, don’t you understand, I
                        laugh!”
                    Miss St. Quentin’s delicate, square?cut face wore an air of solicitude as she
                        followed her friend out of the room. There was a trace of indolence in her
                        slow, reflective speech, as in her long, swinging stride—the indolence bred
                        of unconscious strength rather than of weakness, the leisureliness which
                        goes with staying power both in the moral and the physical domain.
                    “See here, Nellie,” she said, “forgive brutal frankness, but which is the
                        real thing to?day—they’re each delightful in their own way—the tears or the
                        laughter?”
                    “Both! oh, well?beloved seeker after truth!” Madame de Vallorbes answered.
                        “There lies the value of the situation.”
                    “Fresh worries?”
                    
                    “No, no, the old, the accustomed, the well?accredited, the normal, the stock
                        ones—a husband and a financial crisis.”
                    As she spoke Madame de Vallorbes fastened the buttons of her long
                        driving?coat. Miss St. Quentin knelt down and busied herself with the lowest
                        of these. Her tall, slender figure was doubled together. She kept her head
                        bent.
                    “I happen to have a pretty tidy balance just now,” she remarked
                        parenthetically, and as though with a certain diffidence. “So you know, if
                        you are a bit hard up—why—it’s all perfectly simple, Nellie, don’t you
                        know.”
                    For a perceptible space of time Madame de Vallorbes did not answer. A grating
                        of wheels on the gravel arrested her attention. She looked down the long
                        vista of ruddily lighted hall, with its glowing fire and cheerful lamps to
                        the open door, where, against the blear whiteness of the fog, the
                        mail?phaeton and its occupant showed vague in outline and in proportions
                        almost gigantic against the thick, shifting atmosphere. Miss St. Quentin
                        raised her head, surprised at her companion’s silence. Helen de Vallorbes
                        bent down, took the upturned face in both hands and kissed the soft cheeks
                        with effusion.
                    “You are adorable,” she said. “But you are too generous. You shall lend me
                        nothing more. I believe I see my way. I can scrape through this crisis.”
                    Miss St. Quentin rose to her feet.
                    “All right,” she said, smiling upon her friend from her superior height with
                        a delightful air of affection and apology. “I only wanted you just to know,
                        in case—don’t you see. And—and—for the rest, how goes it, Helen? Are you
                        turning all their poor heads at Brockhurst? You’re rather an upsetting being
                        to let loose in an ordinary, respectable, English country?house. A sort of
                            Mousquetaire au couvent the other way
                        about, don’t you know. Are you making things fly generally?”
                    “I am making nothing fly,” the other lady rejoined gaily. “I am as
                        inoffensive as a stained?glass saint in a chapel window. I am absolutely
                        angelic.”
                    “That’s worst of all,” Honoria exclaimed, still smiling. “When you’re angelic
                        you are most particularly deadly. For the preservation of local innocents,
                        somebody ought to go and hoist danger signals.”
                    Miss St. Quentin, after just a moment’s hesitation, followed her friend
                        through the warm, bright hall to the door. Then Helen de Vallorbes turned to
                        her.
                    “Au revoir, dearest Honoria,” she said,
                        “and the sooner the better. Leave your shopgirls and distressed
                            needlewomen, and all your other good
                        works, for a still better one—namely for me. Come and reclaim, and comfort,
                        and support me for a while in Paris.”
                    Again she kissed the soft cheek.
                    “I am as good as gold. I am just now actually mawkish with virtue,” she
                        murmured, between the kisses.
                    Richard witnessed this exceedingly pretty leave?taking not without a movement
                        of impatience. The fog was thickening once more. It grew late. He wished his
                        cousin would get through with these amenities. Then, moreover, he did not
                        covet intercourse with Miss St. Quentin. He pulled the fur rug aside with
                        his left hand, holding reins and whip in his right.
                    “I say, are you nearly ready?” he asked. “I don’t want to bother you; but
                        really it’s about time we were moving.”
                    “I come, I come,” Madame de Vallorbes cried, in answer. She put one
                        neatly?shod foot on the axle, and stepped up—Richard holding out his hand to
                        steady her. A sense, at once pleasurable and defiant, of something akin to
                        ownership, came over him as he did so. Just then his attention was claimed
                        by a voice addressing him from the farther side of the carriage. Honoria St.
                        Quentin stood on the gravel close beside him, bare?headed, in the clinging
                        damp and chill of the fog.
                    “Give my love to Lady Calmady,” she said. “I hope I shall see her again some
                        day. But, even if I never have the luck to do that, in a way it’ll make no
                        real difference. I’ve written her name in my private calendar, and shall
                        always remember it.”—She paused a moment. “We got rather near each other
                        somehow, I think. We didn’t dawdle or beat about the bush, but went straight
                        along, passed the initial stages of acquaintance in a few hours, and reached
                        that point of friendship where forgetting becomes impossible.”
                    “My mother never forgets,” Richard asserted, and there was, perhaps, a slight
                        edge to his tone. Looking down into the girl’s pale, finely?moulded face,
                        meeting the glance of those steady, strangely clear and observant eyes, he
                        received an impression of something uncompromisingly sincere and in a
                        measure protective. This, for cause unknown, he resented. Notwithstanding
                        her high?breeding, Miss St. Quentin’s attitude appeared to him a trifle
                        intrusive just then.
                    “I am very sure of that—that your mother never forgets, I mean. One knows, at
                        once, one can trust her down to the ground and on to the end of the
                        ages.”—Again she paused, as though rallying herself against a disinclination
                        for further speech. “All captivating women
                        aren’t made on that pattern, unfortunately, you know, Sir Richard. A good
                        many of them it’s wisest not to trust anything like down to the ground, or
                        longer than—well—the day before yesterday.”
                    And without waiting for any reply to this cryptic utterance, she stepped
                        swiftly round behind the carriage again, waved her hand from the door?step
                        and then swung away, with lazy, long?limbed grace, past the waiting
                        men?servants and through the ruddy brightness of the hall.
                    Madame de Vallorbes settled herself back rather languidly in her place. She
                        was pricked by a sharp point of curiosity, regarding the tenor of Miss St.
                        Quentin’s mysterious colloquy with Richard. Calmady. She had been able to
                        catch but a word here and there, and these had been provokingly suggestive.
                        Had the well?beloved Honoria, in a moment of over?scrupulous
                        conscientiousness permitted herself to hoist danger signals? She wanted to
                        know, for it was her business to haul such down again with all possible
                        despatch. She intended the barometer to register “set fair” whatever the
                        weather actually impending. Yet to institute direct inquiries might be to
                        invite suspicion. Helen, therefore, declined upon diplomacy, upon the
                        inverted sweetnesses calculated nicely to mask an intention quite other than
                        sweet. She really held her friend in very warm affection. But Madame de
                        Vallorbes never confused secondary and primary issues. When you have a
                        really big deal on hand—and of the bigness of her present deal the last
                        quarter of an hour had brought her notably increased assurance—even the
                        dearest friend must stand clear and get very decidedly out of the way. So,
                        while the muffled thud of the horses’ hoofs echoed up from the hard gravel
                        of the carriage drive through the thick atmosphere, and the bare limbs of
                        the trees clawed, as with lean arms clothed in tattered draperies, at the
                        passing carriage and its occupants, she contented herself by observing:—
                    “I am grateful to you for driving me over, Richard. Honoria is very perfect
                        in her own way. It always does me good to see her. She’s quite unlike
                        anybody else, isn’t she?”
                    But Richard’s eyes were fixed upon the blank wall of fog just ahead, which,
                        though always stable, always receded before the advancing carriage. The
                        effect of it was unpleasant somehow, holding, as it did to his mind,
                        suggestion of other things still more baffling and impending, from
                        which—though you might keep them at arm’s length—there was no permanent or actual escape. The question of Miss
                        St. Quentin’s characteristics did not consequently greatly interest him. He
                        had arrived at conclusions. There was a matter of vital importance on which
                        he desired to speak to his cousin. But how to do that? Richard was young and
                        excellently modest. His whole purpose was rather fiercely focused on speech.
                        But he was diffident, fearing to approach the subject which he had so much
                        at heart clumsily and in a tactless, tasteless manner.
                    “Miss St. Quentin? Oh yes!” he replied, rather absently. “I really know next
                        to nothing about her. And she seems merely to regard me as a vehicle of
                        communication between herself and my mother. She sent her messages just
                        now—I hope to goodness I shan’t forget to deliver them! She and my mother
                        appear to have fallen pretty considerably in love with one another.”
                    “Probably,” Madame de Vallorbes said softly. An agreeable glow of relief
                        passed over her. She looked up at Richard with a delightful effect of
                        pensiveness from beneath the sweeping brim of her cavalier hat.—“I can well
                        believe Aunt Katherine would be attracted by her,” she continued. “Honoria
                        is quite a woman’s woman. Men do not care very much about her as a rule.
                        There is a good deal of latent vanity resident in the members of your sex,
                        you know, Richard; and men are usually conscious that Honoria does not care
                        so very much about them. They are quite right, she does not. I really
                        believe when poor, dreadful, old Lady Tobermory left her all that money
                        Honoria’s first thought was that now she might embrace celibacy with a good
                        conscience. The St. Quentins are not precisely millionaires, you know. Her
                        wealth left her free to espouse the cause of womanhood at large. She is a
                        little bit Quixotic, dear thing, and given to tilting at windmills. She
                        wants to secure to working women a fair business basis—that is the technical
                        expression, I believe. And so she starts clubs, and forms circles. She says
                        women must be encouraged to combine and to agitate. Whether they are capable
                        of combining I do not pretend to say. These high matters transcend my small
                        wit. But, as I have often pointed out to her, agitation is the natural
                        attitude of every woman. It would seem superfluous to encourage or inculcate
                        that, for surely wherever two or three petticoats are gathered together,
                        there, as far as my experience goes, is agitation of necessity in the midst
                        of them.”
                    Madame de Vallorbes leaned back with a little sigh and air of exquisite
                        resignation.
                    
                    “All the same, the majority of women are unhappy enough, Heaven knows! If
                        Honoria, or any other sweet, feminine Quixote, can find means to lighten the
                        burden of our lives, she has my very sincere thanks, well understood.”
                    Richard drew his whip across the backs of the trotting horses, making them
                        plunge forward against that blank, impalpable wall of all?encircling,
                        ever?receding, ever?present fog. The carriage had just crossed the long,
                        white?railed bridge, spanning the little river and space of marsh on either
                        side, and now entered Sandyfield Street. The tops of the tall Lombardy
                        poplars were lost in gloom. Now and again the redness of a lighted cottage
                        window, blurred and contorted in shape, showed through the grey pall.
                        Slow?moving, country figures, passing vehicles, a herd of some eight or ten
                        cows—preceded by a diabolic looking billy?goat, and followed by a lad
                        astride the hind?quarters of a bare?backed donkey—grew out of pallid
                        nothingness as the carriage came abreast of them, and receded with
                        mysterious rapidity into nothingness again. The effect was curiously
                        fantastic and unreal. And, as the minutes passed, that effect of unreality
                        gained upon Richard’s imagination, until now—as last evening in the stately
                        solitude of the Long Gallery—he became increasingly aware of the personality
                        of his companion, increasingly penetrated by the feeling of being alone with
                        that personality, as though the world, so strangely blotted out by these
                        dim, obliterating vapours, were indeed vacant of all human interest, human
                        purpose, human history, save that incarnate in this fair woman and in his
                        own relation to her. She alone existed, concrete, exquisite, sentient, amid
                        the vague, shifting immensities of fog. She alone mattered. Her near
                        neighbourhood worked upon hint strongly, causing an excitement in him which
                        at once hindered and demanded speech.
                    Night began to close in in good earnest. Passing the broad, yellowish glare
                        streaming out from the rounded tap?room window of the Calmady Arms, and
                        passing from the end of the village street on to the open common, the light
                        had become so uncertain that Richard could no longer see his companion’s
                        face clearly. This was almost a relief to him, so that, mastering at once
                        his diffidence and his excitement, he spoke.
                    “Look here, Helen,” he said, “I have been thinking over all that you told me.
                        I don’t want to dwell on subjects that must be very painful to you, but I
                        can’t help thinking about them. It’s not that I won’t leave them alone, but
                        that they won’t leave me. I don’t want to presume upon your confidence, or
                        take too much upon myself. Only, don’t you see, now that I do know it’s impossible to sit down under it all and
                        let things go on just the same.—You’re not angry with me?”
                    The young man spoke very carefully and calmly, yet the tones of his voice
                        were heavily charged with feeling.
                    Madame de Vallorbes clasped her hands rather tightly within her sable muff.
                        Unconsciously she began to sway a little, just a very little, as a person
                        will sway in time to strains of stirring music. An excitement, not mental
                        merely but physical, invaded her. For she recognised that she stood on the
                        threshold of developments in this very notable drama. Still she answered
                        quietly, with a touch even of weariness.
                    “Ah! dear Richard, it is so friendly and charming of you to take my
                        infelicities thus to heart! But to what end, to what end, I ask you? The
                        conditions are fixed. Escape from them is impossible. I have made my
                        bed—made it most abominably uncomfortably, I admit, but that is not to the
                        point—and I must lie on it. There is no redress. There is nothing to be
                        done.”
                    “Yes, there is this,” he replied. “I know it is wretchedly inadequate, it
                        doesn’t touch the root of the matter. Oh! it’s miserably inadequate—I should
                        think I did know that! Only it might smooth the surface a bit, perhaps, and
                        put a stop to one source of annoyance. Forgive me if I say what seems coarse
                        or clumsy—but would not your position be easier if, in regard to—to money,
                        you were quite independent of that—of your husband, I mean,—M. de
                        Vallorbes?”
                    For a moment the young lady remained very still, and stared very hard at the
                        fog. The most surprising visions arose before her. She had a difficulty in
                        repressing an exclamation.
                    “Ah! there now, I have blundered. I’ve hurt you. I’ve made you angry,” Dickie
                        cried impulsively.
                    “No, no, dear Richard,” she answered, with admirable gentleness, “I am not
                        angry. Only what is the use of romancing?”
                    “I am not romancing. It is the simplest thing out, if you will but have it
                        so.”
                    He hesitated a little. The horses were pulling, the fog was in his throat
                        thick and choking—or was it, perhaps, something more unsubstantial and
                        intangible even than fog? The spacious barns and rickyards of the Church
                        Farm were just visible on the right. In less than five minutes more, at
                        their present pace, the horses would reach the first park gate. The young
                        man felt he must give himself time. He quieted the horses down into a
                        walk.
                    “If I were your brother, Helen, I should save you all these sordid money
                        worries as a matter of course. You have no
                        brother—so, don’t you see, I come next. It’s a perfectly obvious
                        arrangement. Just let me be your banker,” he said.
                    Madame de Vallorbes shut her pretty teeth together. She could have danced,
                        she could have sung aloud for very gaiety of heart. She had not anticipated
                        this turn to the situation; but it was a delicious one. It had great
                        practical merits. Her brain worked rapidly. Immediately those practical
                        merits ranged themselves before her in detail. But she would play with it a
                        little—both diplomacy and good taste, in which last she was by no means
                        deficient, required that.
                    “Ah! you forget, dear Richard,” she said, “in your friendly zeal you forget
                        that, in our rank of life, there is one thing a woman cannot accept from a
                        man. To take money is to lay yourself open to slanderous tongues, is to
                        court scandal. Sooner or later it is known, the fact leaks out. And however
                        innocent the intention, however noble and honest the giving, however
                        grateful and honest the receiving, the world puts but one construction upon
                        such a transaction.”
                    “The world’s beastly evil?minded then,” Richard said.
                    “So it is. But that is no news, Dickie dear,” Madame de Vallorbes answered.
                        “Nor is it exactly to the point.”
                    Inwardly she trembled a little. What if she had headed him off too cleverly,
                        and he should regard her argument as convincing, her refusal as final? Her
                        fears were by no means lessened by the young man’s protracted silence.
                    “No, I don’t agree,” he said at last. “I suppose there are always risks to be
                        run in securing anything at all worth securing, and it seems to me, if you
                        look at it all round, the risks in this case are very slight. Only you—and
                        M. de Vallorbes need know. I suppose he must. But then, if you will pardon
                        my saying so, after what you have told me I can’t imagine he is the sort of
                        person who is likely to object very much to an arrangement by which he would
                        benefit, at least indirectly. As for the world,”—Richard ceased to
                        contemplate his horses. He tried to speak lightly, while his eyes sought
                        that dimly seen face at his elbow.—“Oh, well, hang the world, Helen! It’s
                        easy enough for me to say so, I daresay, being but so slightly acquainted
                        with it and the ways of it. But the world can’t be so wholly hide?bound and
                        idiotic that it denies the existence of exceptional cases. And this case, in
                        some of its bearings at all events, is wholly exceptional, I am—happy to
                        think.”
                    “You are a very convincing special pleader, Richard,” Madame de Vallorbes
                        said softly.
                    
                    “Then you accept?” he rejoined exultantly. “You accept?”
                    The young lady could not quite control herself.
                    “Ah! if you only knew the prodigious relief it would be,” she exclaimed, with
                        an outbreak of impatience. “It would make an incalculable difference. And
                        yet I do not see my way. I am in a cleft stick. I dare not say Yes. And to
                        say No”—Her sincerity was unimpeachable at that moment. Her eyes actually
                        filled with tears. “Pah! I am ashamed of myself,” she cried, “but, to refuse
                        is distracting.”
                    The gate of the outer park had been reached. The groom swung himself down and
                        ran forward, but confused by the growing darkness and the thick atmosphere
                        he fumbled for a time before finding the heavy latch.
                    The horses became somewhat restive, snorting and fidgeting.
                    “Steady there, steady, good lass,” Richard said soothingly. Then he turned
                        again to his companion. “Believe me it’s the very easiest thing out to
                        accept, if you’ll only look at it all from the right point of view,
                        Helen.”
                    Madame de Vallorbes withdrew her right hand from her muff and laid it, almost
                        timidly, upon the young man’s arm.
                    “Do you know, you are wonderfully dear to me, Dick?” she said, and her voice
                        shook slightly. She was genuinely touched and moved.—“No one has ever been
                        quite so dear to me before. It is a new experience. It takes my breath away
                        a little. It makes me regret some things I have done. But it is a mistake to
                        go back on what is past, don’t you think so? Therefore we will go forward.
                        Tell me, expound. What is this so agreeably reconciling point of view?”
                    But along with the touch of her hand, a great wave of emotion swept over poor
                        Richard, making his grasp on the reins very unsteady. The sensations he had
                        suffered last evening in the Long Gallery again assailed him. The flesh had
                        its word to say. Speech became difficult. Meanwhile his agitation
                        communicated itself strangely to the horses. They sprang forward against
                        that all?encircling, ever?present, yet ever?receding, blank wall of fog, to
                        which the over?arching trees lent an added gloom and mystery, as though some
                        incarnate terror pursued them. The gate clanged?to behind the carriage. The
                        groom scrambled breathlessly into his place. Sir Richard’s driving was
                        rather reckless, he ventured to think, on such a nasty, dark night, and with
                        a lady along of him too. He was not sorry when the pace slowed down to a
                        walk. That was a long sight safer, to his thinking.
                    
                    “The right point of view is this,” Richard said at last; “that in accepting
                        you would be doing that which, in some ways, would make just all the
                        difference to my life.”
                    He held himself very upright on the sloping driving?seat, rather cruelly
                        conscious of the broad strap about his waist, and the high, unsightly
                        driving?iron against which, concealed by the heavy, fur rug, his feet pushed
                        as he balanced himself. He paused, gazing away into the silent desolation of
                        the now invisible woods, and when he spoke again his voice had deepened in
                        tone.
                    “It must be patent to you—it is rather detestably patent to everyone, I
                        suppose, if it comes to that—that I am condemned to be of precious little
                        use to myself or anyone else. I share the fate of the immortal Sancho Panza
                        in his island of Barataria. A very fine feast is spread before me, while I
                        find myself authoritatively forbidden to eat first of this dish and then of
                        that, until I end by being every bit as hungry as though the table was bare.
                        It becomes rather a nuisance at times, you know, and taxes one’s temper and
                        one’s philosophy. It seems a little rough to possess all that so many men of
                        my age would give just everything to have, and yet be unable to get anything
                        but unsatisfied hunger, and—in plain English—humiliation, out of it.”
                    Madame de Vallorbes sat very still. Her charming face had grown keen. She
                        listened, drawing in her breath with a little sobbing sound—but that was
                        only the result of accentuated dramatic satisfaction.
                    “You see I have no special object or ambition. I can’t have one. I just pass
                        the time. I don’t see any prospect of my ever being able to do more than
                        that. There’s my mother, of course. I need not tell you she and I love one
                        another. And there are the horses. But I don’t care to bet, and I never
                        attend a race?meeting. I—I do not choose to make an exhibition of
                        myself.”
                    Again Helen drew her hand out of her muff, but this time quickly,
                        impulsively, and laid it on Richard’s left hand which held the reins. The
                        young man’s breath caught in his throat, he leaned sideways towards her, her
                        shoulder touching his elbow, the trailing plumes of her hat—now limp from
                        the clinging moisture of the fog—for a moment brushing his cheek.
                    “Helen,” he said rapidly, “don’t you understand it’s in your power to alter
                        all this? By accepting you would do infinitely more for me than I could ever
                        dream of doing for you. You’d give me something to think of and plan
                            about. If you’ll only have whatever
                        wretched money you need now, and have more whenever you want it—if you’ll
                        let me feel, however rarely we meet, that you depend on me and trust me and
                        let me make things a trifle easier and smoother for you, you will be doing
                        such an act of charity as few women have ever done. Don’t refuse, for pity’s
                        sake don’t! I don’t want to whine, but things were not precisely gay before
                        your coming, you know. Need it be added they promise to be less so than ever
                        after you are gone? So listen to reason. Do as I ask you. Let me be of use
                        in the only way I can.”
                    “Do you consider what you propose?” Madame de Vallorbes asked, slowly. “It is
                        a good deal. It is dangerous. With most men such a compact would be wholly
                        inadmissible.”
                    Then poor. Dickie lost himself. The strain of the last week, the young,
                        headlong passion aroused in him, the misery of his deformity, the
                        accumulated bitterness and rebellion of years arose and overflowed as a
                        great flood. Pride went down before it, and reticence, and decencies of
                        self?respect. Richard turned and rent himself, without mercy and, for the
                        moment, without shame. He pelted himself with cruel words, with scorn and
                        self?contempt, while he laughed, and the sound of that laughter wandered
                        away weirdly through the chill density of the fog, under the tall, shadowy
                        firs of the great avenue, over the sombre heather, out into the veiled,
                        crowded darkness of the wide woods.
                    “But I am not as other men are,” he answered. “I am a creature by myself, a
                        unique development as much outside the normal social, as I am outside the
                        normal physical law. I—alone by myself—think of it!—abnormal,
                        extraordinary.—You are safe enough with me, Helen. Safe to indulge and
                        humour me as you might a monkey or a parrot. All the world will understand
                        that! Only my mother, and a few old friends and old servants take me
                        seriously. To everyone else I am an embarrassment, a more or less
                        distressing curiosity.”—He met little Lady Constance Quayle’s ruminant stare
                        again in imagination, heard Lord Fallowfeild’s blundering speech.—“Remember
                        our luncheon to?day. It was flattering, at moments, wasn’t it? And so if I
                        do queer things, things off the conventional lines, who will be surprised?
                        No one I tell you, not even the most strait?laced or censorious. Allow me at
                        least the privileges of my disabilities. I am a dwarf—a cripple. I shall
                        never be otherwise. Had I lived a century or two ago I should have made
                        sport for you, and such as you, as some rich man’s professional fool. And
                        so, if I overstep the usual limits, who
                        will comment on that? Queer things, crazy things, are in the part. What do I
                        matter?”
                    Richard laughed aloud.
                    “At least I have this advantage, that in my case you can do what you can do
                        in the case of no other man. With me you needn’t be afraid. No one will
                        think evil. With me—yes, after all, there is a drop of comfort in it—with
                        me, Helen, you’re safe enough.”
                
                
                    CHAPTER X
                    MR. LUDOVIC QUAYLE AMONG THE PROPHETS
                    THAT same luncheon party at Brockhurst, if not notably satisfactory
                        to the hosts, afforded much subsequent food for meditation to one at least
                        of the guests. During the evening immediately following it, and even in the
                        watches of the night, Lady Louisa Barking’s thought was persistently engaged
                        with the subject of Richard Calmady, his looks, his character, his temper,
                        his rent?roll, the acreage of his estates, and his prospects generally. Nor
                        did her interest remain hidden and inarticulate. For, finding that in
                        various particulars her knowledge was superficial and clearly insufficient,
                        on her journey from Westchurch up to town next day, in company with her
                        brother Ludovic, she put so many questions to that accomplished, young
                        gentleman that he shortly divined some serious purpose in her inquiry.
                    “We all recognise, my dear Louisa,” he remarked presently, laying aside the
                        day’s Times, of which he had vainly essayed the study, with an
                        air of gentle resignation, crossing his long legs and leaning back in his
                        corner of the railway carriage,—“that you are the possessor of an eminently
                        practical mind. You have run the family for some years now, not without
                        numerous successes, among which may be reckoned your running of yourself
                        into the arms—if you will pardon my mentioning them—of my estimable
                        brother?in?law, Barking.”
                    “Really, Ludovic!” his sister protested.
                    “Let me entreat you not to turn restive, Louisa,” Mr. Quayle rejoined with
                        the utmost suavity. “I am paying a high compliment to your intelligence. To
                        have run into the arms of Mr. Barking, or indeed of anybody else, casually
                        and involuntarily, to have blundered into them—if I may so express
                        myself—would have been a stupidity. But to run into them intentionally
                            and voluntarily argues considerable
                        powers of strategy, an intelligent direction of movement which I respect and
                        admire.”
                    “You are really exceedingly provoking, Ludovic!”
                    Lady Louisa pushed the square, leather?covered dressing?case, on which her
                        feet had been resting, impatiently aside.
                    “Far from it,” the young man answered. “Can I put that box anywhere else for
                        you? You like it just where it is?—Yes? But I assure you I am not provoking.
                        I am merely complimentary. Conversation is an art, Louisa. None of my
                        sisters ever can be got to understand that. It is dreadfully crude to rush
                        in waist?deep at once. There should be feints and approaches. You should
                        nibble at your sugar with a graceful coyness. You should cut a few frills
                        and skirmish a little before setting the battle actively in array. And it is
                        just this that I have been striving to do during the last five minutes. But
                        you do not appear to appreciate the commendable style of my preliminaries.
                        You want to engage immediately. There is usually a first?rate underlying
                        reason for your interest in anybody”—
                    Again the lady shifted the position of the dressing?case.
                    “To the right?” inquired Mr. Quayle extending his hand, his head a little on
                        one side, his long neck directed forward, while he regarded first his sister
                        and then the dressing?case with infuriating urbanity. “No? Let us come to
                        Hecuba, then. Let us dissemble no longer, but put it plainly. What, oh,
                        Louisa! what are you driving at in respect of my very dear friend, Dickie
                        Calmady?”
                    Now it was unquestionably most desirable for her to keep on the fair?weather
                        side of Mr. Quayle just then. Yet the flesh is weak. Lady Louisa Barking
                        could not control a movement of self?justification. She spoke with dignity,
                        severely.
                    “It is all very well for you to say those sorts of things, Ludovic”—
                    “What sorts of things?” he inquired mildly.
                    “But I should be glad to know what would have become of the family by now,
                        unless someone had come forward and taken matters in hand? Of course one
                        gets no thanks for it. One never does get any thanks for doing one’s duty,
                        however wearing it is to oneself and however much others profit. But
                        somebody had to sacrifice themselves. Mama is unequal to any exertion. You
                        know what papa is”—
                    “I do, I do,” murmured Mr. Quayle, raising his gaze piously to the roof of
                        the railway carriage.
                    “If he has one of the boys to tramp over the country with him at Whitney, and one of the girls to ride with
                        him in London, he is perfectly happy and content. He is alarmingly
                        improvident. He would prefer keeping the whole family at home doing
                        nothing”—
                    “Save laughing at his jokes. My father craves the support of a sympathetic
                        audience.”
                    “Shotover is worse than useless.”
                    “Except to the guileless Israelite he is. Absolutely true, Louisa.”
                    “Guy would never have gone into the army when he left Eton unless I had
                        insisted upon it. And it was entirely through the Barkings’ influence—at my
                        representation of course—that Eddie got a berth in that Liverpool
                        cotton?broker’s business. I am sure Alicia is very comfortably married. I
                        know George Winterbotham is not the least interesting, but he is perfectly
                        gentlemanlike and presentable, and so on, and he makes her a most devoted
                        husband. And from what Mr. Barking heard the other day at the Club from
                        somebody or other, I forget who, but someone connected with the Government,
                        you know, there is every probability of George getting that permanent
                        undersecretaryship.”
                    “Did I not start by declaring you had achieved numerous successes?” Ludovic
                        inquired. “Yet we stray from the point, Louisa. For do I not still remain
                        ignorant of the root of your sudden interest in my friend Dickie Calmady?
                        And I thirst to learn how you propose to work him into the triumphant
                        development of our family fortunes.”
                    The proportions of Lady Louisa’s small mouth contracted still further into an
                        expression of great decision, while she glanced at the landscape reeling
                        away from the window of the railway carriage. In the past twelve hours
                        autumn had given place to winter. The bare hedges showed black, while the
                        fallen leaves of the hedgerow trees formed unsightly blotches of sodden
                        brown and purple upon the dirty green of the pastures. Over all brooded an
                        opaque, grey?brown sky, sullen and impenetrable. Lady Louisa saw all this.
                        But she was one of those persons happily, for themselves, unaffected by such
                        abstractions as the aspects of nature. Her purposes were immediate and
                        practical. She followed them with praiseworthy persistence. The landscape
                        merely engaged her eyes because she, just now, preferred looking out of the
                        window to looking her brother in the face.
                    “Something must be done for the younger girls,” she announced. “I feel pretty
                        confident about Emily’s future. We need not go into that. Maggie, if she
                        marries at all—and she really is very
                        useful at home, in looking after the servants and entertaining, and so on—if
                        she marries at all, will marry late. She has no particular attractions as
                        girls go. Her figure is too solid, and she talks too much. But she will make
                        a very presentable middle?aged woman—sensible, dependable, an excellent
                            ménagère. Certainly she had better
                        marry late.”
                    “A mature clergyman when she is rising forty—a widowed bishop, for instance.
                        Yes, I approve that,” Mr. Quayle rejoined reflectively. “It is well
                        conceived, Louisa. We must keep an eye on the Bench and carefully note any
                        episcopal matrimonial vacancy. Bishops have a little turn, I observe, for
                        marrying somebody who is somebody—specially en secondes noces, good men. Yes, it is well
                        thought of. With careful steering we may bring Maggie to anchor in a palace
                        yet. Maggie is rather dogmatic, she would make not half a bad Mrs. Proudie.
                        So she is disposed of, and then?”
                    For a few seconds the lady held silent converse with herself. At last she
                        addressed her companion in tones of unwonted cordiality.
                    “You are by far the most sensible of the family, Ludovic,” she began.
                    “And in a family so renowned for intellect, so conspicuous for ‘parts and
                        learning,’ as Macaulay puts it, that is indeed a distinction!”—Mr. Quayle
                        bowed slightly in his comfortable corner. “A thousand thanks, Louisa,” he
                        murmured. 
                    “I would not breathe a syllable of this to any of the others,” she continued.
                        “You know how the girls chatter. Alicia, I am sorry to say, is as bad as any
                        of them. They would discuss the question without intermission—simply, you
                        know, talk the whole thing to death.”
                    “Poor thing!—Yet, after all, what thing?” the young man inquired
                        urbanely.
                    Lady Louisa bit her lip. He was very irritating, while she was very much in
                        earnest. It was her misfortune usually to be a good deal in earnest.
                    “There is Constance,” she remarked, somewhat abruptly.
                    “Precisely—there is poor, dear, innocent, rather foolish, little Connie. It
                        occurred to me we might be coming to that.”
                    In his turn Mr. Quayle fell silent, and contemplated the reeling landscape.
                        Pasture had given place to wide stretches of dark moorland on either side
                        the railway line, with a pallor of sour bog grasses in the hollows. The
                        outlook was uncheerful. Perhaps it was that which caused the young man to
                        shake his head.
                    “I recognise the brilliancy of the conception, Louisa. It reflects credit upon your imagination and—your
                        daring,” he said presently. “But you won’t be able to work it.”
                    “Pray why not?” almost snapped Lady Louisa.
                    Mr. Quayle settled himself back in his corner again. His handsome face was
                        all sweetness, indulgent though argumentative. He was nothing, clearly,
                        unless reasonable.
                    “Personally, I am extremely fond of Dickie Calmady,” he began. “I permit
                        myself—honestly I do—moments of enthusiasm regarding him. I should esteem
                        the woman lucky who married him. Yet I could imagine a prejudice might exist
                        in some minds—minds of a less emancipated and finely comprehensive order
                        than yours and my own of course—against such an alliance. Take my father’s
                        mind, for instance—and unhappily my father dotes on Connie. And he is more
                        obstinate than nineteen dozen—well, I leave you to fill in the comparison
                        mentally, Louisa. It might be slightly wanting in filial respect to put it
                        into words.”
                    Again he shook his head in pensive solemnity.
                    “I give you credit for prodigious push and tenacity, for a remarkable
                        capacity of generalship, in short. Yet I cannot disguise from myself the
                        certainty that you would never square my father.”
                    “But suppose she wishes it herself? Papa would deny Connie nothing,” the
                        other objected. She was obliged to raise her voice to a point of shrillness,
                        hardly compatible with the dignity of the noble house of Fallowfeild,
                            doublé with all the gold of all the
                        Barkings, for the train was banging over the points and roaring between the
                        platforms of a local junction. Mr. Quayle made a deprecating gesture, put
                        his hands over his ears, and again gently shook his head, intimating that no
                        person possessed either of nerves or self?respect could be expected to carry
                        on a conversation under existing conditions. Lady Louisa desisted. But, as
                        soon as the train passed into the comparative quiet of the open country, she
                        took up her parable again, and took it up in a tone of authority.
                    “Of course I admit there is something to get over. It would be ridiculous not
                        to admit that. And I am always determined to be perfectly straightforward. I
                        detest humbug of any kind. So I do not deny for a moment that there is
                        something. Still it would be a very good marriage for Constance, a very good
                        marriage, indeed. Even papa must acknowledge that. Money, position, age,
                        everything of that kind, in its favour. One could not expect to have all
                        that without some make?weight. I should not regret it, for I feel it might
                        really be bad for Connie to have so much without some make?weight. And I
                            remarked yesterday—I could not help
                        remarking it—that she was very much occupied about Sir Richard Calmady.”
                    “Connie is a little goose,” Mr. Quayle permitted himself to remark, and for
                        once there was quite a sour edge to his sweetness.
                    “Connie is not quick, she is not sensitive,” his sister continued. “And,
                        really, under all the circumstances, that perhaps is just as well. But she
                        is a good child, and would believe almost anything you told her. She has an
                        affectionate and obedient disposition, and she never attempts to think for
                        herself. I don’t believe it would ever occur to her to object to his—his
                        peculiarities, unless some mischievous person suggested it to her. And then,
                        as I tell you, I remarked she was very much occupied about him.”
                    Once again Mr. Quayle sought counsel of the landscape which once again had
                        changed in character. For here civilisation began to trail her skirts very
                        visibly, and the edges of those skirts were torn and frayed, notably
                        unhandsome. The open moorland had given place to flat market?gardens and
                        leafless orchards sloppy with wet. Innumerable cabbages, innumerable
                        stunted, black?branched apple and pear trees, avenues of dilapidated pea and
                        bean sticks, reeled away to right and left. The semi?suburban towns
                        stretched forth long, rawly?red arms of ugly, little, jerry?built streets
                        and terraces. Tall chimneys and unlovely gasometers—these last showing as
                        collections of some monstrous spawn—rose against the opaque sky, a sky
                        rendered momentarily more opaque, dirtier and more dingy, by the masses of
                        London smoke hanging along the eastern horizon.
                    Usually Ludovic knew his own mind clearly enough. The atmosphere of it was
                        very far from being hazy. Now that atmosphere bore annoying resemblance to
                        the opacity obtaining overhead and along the eastern horizon. The young
                        man’s sympathies—or were they his prejudices?—had a convenient habit of
                        ranging themselves immediately on one side or other of any question
                        presenting itself to him. But in the present case they were mixed. They
                        pulled both ways, and this vexed him. For he liked to suppose himself very
                        ripe, cynical, and disillusioned, while, in good truth, sentiment had more
                        than a word to say in most of his opinions and decisions. Now sentiment
                        ruled him strongly and pushed him—but, unfortunately, in diametrically
                        opposite directions. The sentiment of friendship compelled him hitherward.
                        While another sentiment, which he refused to define—he recognised it as
                        wholesome, yet he was a trifle ashamed of it—compelled him quite
                        other?where. He took refuge in an adroit begging of the question.
                    
                    “After all are you not committing the fundamental error of reckoning without
                        your host, Louisa?” he inquired. “Connie may be a good deal occupied about
                        Calmady, but thereby may only give further proof of her own silliness. I
                        certainly discovered no particular sign of Calmady being occupied about
                        Connie. He was very much more occupied about the fair cousin, Helen de
                        Vallorbes, than about any one of us, my illustrious self included, as far as
                        I could see.”
                    In her secret soul his hearer had to own this statement just. But she kept
                        the owning to herself, and, with a rapidity upon which she could not help
                        congratulating herself, instituted a flanking movement.
                    “You hear all the gossip, Ludovic,” she said. “Of course it is no good my
                        asking Mr. Barking about that sort of thing. Even if he heard it he would
                        not remember it. His mind is too much engaged. If a woman marries a man with
                        large political interests she must just give herself to them generously. It
                        is very interesting, and one feels, of course, one is helping to make
                        history. But still one has to sacrifice something. I hear next to nothing of
                        what is going on—the gossip, I mean. And so tell me, what do you hear about
                        her, about Madame de Vallorbes?”
                    “At first hand only that which you must know perfectly well yourself, my dear
                        Louisa.—Didn’t you sit opposite to her at luncheon, yesterday?—That she is a
                        vastly good?looking and attractive woman.”
                    “At second hand, then?”
                    “At second hand? Oh! at second hand I know various amiable little odds and
                        ends such as are commonly reported by the uncharitable and censorious,”
                        Ludovic answered mildly. “’Probably more than half of those little treasures
                        are pure fiction, generated by envy, conceived by malice.”
                    “Pray, Ludovic!” his sister exclaimed. But she recovered herself,—and
                        added:—“You may as well tell me all the same. I think, under the
                        circumstances, it would be better for me to hear.”
                    “You really wish to hear? Well, I give it you for what it is worth. I don’t
                        vouch for the truth of a single item. For all we can tell, nice, kind
                        friends may be recounting kindred anecdotes of Alicia and the blameless
                        Winterbotham, or even of you, Louisa, and Mr. Barking.”
                    Mr. Quayle fixed a glance of surpassing graciousness upon his sister as he
                        uttered these agreeable suggestions, and fervid curiosity alone enabled her
                        to resist a rejoinder and to maintain a dignified silence.
                    “It is said—and this probably is true—that she never cared two straws for de Vallorbes, but was jockeyed into
                        the marriage—just as you might jockey Constance, you know, Louisa—by her
                        mother, who has the reputation of being a somewhat frisky matron with a keen
                        eye to the main chance. She is not quite all, I understand, a tender heart
                        could desire in the way of a female parent. It is further said that la belle Helène makes the dollars fly even more
                        freely than did de Vallorbes in his best days, and he has the credit of
                        having been something of a viveur. He knew
                        not only his Paris, but his Baden?Baden, and his Naples, and various other
                        warm corners where great and good men do commonly congregate. It is added
                        that la belle Helène already gives promise
                        of being playful in other ways besides that of expenditure. And that de
                        Vallorbes has been heard to lament, openly, that he is not a native of some
                        enlightened country in which the divorce court charitably intervenes to
                        sever over?hard connubial knots. In short, it is rumoured that de Vallorbes
                        is not a conspicuous example of the wildly happy husband.”
                    “In short, she is not respec”—
                    But the young man held up his hands and cried out feelingly:—
                    “Don’t, pray don’t, my dear Louisa. Let us walk delicately as Agag—my
                        father’s morning ministrations to the maids again! For how, as I pointed out
                        just now, do we know what insidious little tales may not be in circulation
                        regarding yourself and those nearest and dearest to you?”
                    Ludovic Quayle turned his head and once more looked out of the window, his
                        beautiful mouth visited by a slightly malicious smile. The train was sliding
                        onward above crowded, sordid courts and narrow alleys, festering, as it
                        seemed, with a very plague of poverty?stricken and unwholesome humanity.
                        Here the line runs parallel to the river—sullen to?day, blotted with black
                        floats and lines of grimy barges, which straining, smoke?vomiting steam?tugs
                        towed slowly against a strong flowing tide. On the opposite bank the heavy
                        masses of the Abbey, the long decorated facade and towers of the Houses of
                        Parliament, stood out ghostly and livid in a gleam of frail, unrelated
                        sunshine against the murk of the smoky sky.
                    “I should have supposed Sir Richard Calmady was steady,” Lady Louisa
                        remarked, inconsequently and rather stiffly.—Ludovic really was
                        exasperating.
                    “Steady? Oh! perfectly. Poor, dear chap, he hasn’t had much chance of being
                        anything else as yet.”
                    “Still, of course, Lady Calmady would prefer his being settled. Clearly it
                        would be much better in every way. All things considered, he is certainly
                        one of the people who should marry young.
                        And Connie would be an excellent marriage for him, excellent—thoroughly
                        suitable, better, really, than on the face of it he could hope for.—Ludovic,
                        just look out please and see if the carriage is here. Pocock always loses
                        her head at a terminus, and misses the men?servants. Yes, there is
                        Frederic—with his back to the train, looking the wrong way, of course. He
                        really is too stupid.”
                    Mr. Quayle, however, succeeded in attracting the footman’s attention, and,
                        assisted by that functionary and the lean and anxious Pocock—her arms full
                        of bags and umbrellas—conveyed his sister out of the railway carriage and
                        into the waiting brougham. She graciously offered to put him down at his
                        rooms, in St. James’s Place, on her way to the Barking mansion in Albert
                        Gate, but the young man declined that honour.
                    “Good?bye, Louisa,” he said, leaning his elbows on the open window of the
                        brougham and thereby presenting the back view of an irreproachably cut
                        overcoat and trousers to the passers?by. “I have to thank you for a most
                        interesting and instructive journey. Your efforts to secure the prosperity
                        of the family are wholly praiseworthy. I commend them. I have a profound
                        respect for your generalship. Still, pauper though I am, I am willing to lay
                        you a hundred to one in golden guineas that you will never square papa.”
                    Subsequently the young man bestowed himself in a hansom, and rattled away in
                        the wake of the Barking equipage down the objectionably steep hill which
                        leads from the roar and turmoil of the station into the Waterloo Bridge
                        road.
                    “I might have offered heavier odds,” he said to himself, “for never, never
                        will she square papa!”
                    And, not without a slight sense of shame, he was conscious that he made this
                        reflection with a measure of relief.
                
                
                    CHAPTER XI
                    CONTAINING SAMPLES BOTH OF EARTHLY AND HEAVENLY LOVE
                    KATHERINE stood in the central space of the great, state bedroom. It
                        was just upon midnight, yet she still wore her jewels and her handsome,
                        trailing, black, velvet dress. She was very tired. But that tiredness
                        proceeded less from physical than mental weariness. This she recognised, and
                        foresaw that weariness of this character was not likely to find relief
                            and extinction within the shelter of
                        the curtains of the stately bed, whereon the ancient Persian legend of the
                        flight of the Hart through the tangled Forest of This Life was so deftly and
                        quaintly embroidered. For, unhappily to?night, the leopard, Care, followed
                        very close behind. And Katherine, taking the ancient legend as very
                        literally descriptive of her existing state of mind, feared that, should she
                        undress and seek the shelter of the rose?lined curtains the leopard would
                        seek it also; and, crouching at her feet, his evil, yellow eyes would gaze
                        into her own, wide open, all through that which remained of the night. The
                        night, moreover, was very wild. A westerly gale, with now and again
                        tumultuous violence of rain, rattled the many panes of the windows, wailed
                        in every crevice of door and casement, roared through the mile?long elm
                        avenue below, and roared in the chimneys above. The Prince of the Powers of
                        the Air was let loose, and announced his presence as with the shout of
                        battle. Sleep was out of the question under present conditions and in her
                        present humour. Therefore Lady Calmady had dismissed Clara,—now promoted to
                        the dignified office of lady’s?maid,—and that bright?eyed and devoted
                        waiting?woman had departed reluctant, almost in tears, protesting that:—“It
                        was quite too bad, for her ladyship was being regularly worn out with all
                        the talking and company. And she, for her part, should be heartily glad when
                        the entertaining was over and they were all comfortably to themselves
                        again.”
                    Nor could Katherine honestly assert that she would be altogether sorry when
                        the hour struck, to?morrow, for the departure of her guests. For it appeared
                        to her that, notwithstanding the courtesy and affection of her brother and
                        the triumphant charm of her niece, a spirit of unrest had entered Brockhurst
                        along with their entry. Would that same spirit depart along with their
                        departing? She questioned it. She was oppressed by a fear that spirit of
                        unrest had come to stay. And so it was that as she walked the length and
                        breadth of the lofty, white?panelled room, for all the rage and fury of the
                        storm without, she still heard the soft padding of Care, the leopard, close
                        behind.
                    Then a singular desolation and sense of homelessness came upon Katherine.
                        Turn where she would there seemed no comfort, no escape, no sure promise of
                        eventual rest. Things human and material were emptied not of joy only, but
                        of invitation to effort. For something had happened from which there was no
                        going back. A fair woman from a far country had come and looked upon her
                        son, with the inevitable result, that youth had called to youth. And though the fair woman in
                        question, being already wedded wife,—Katherine was rather pathetically
                        pure?minded,—could not in any dangerously practical manner steal away her
                        son’s heart, yet she would, only too probably, prepare that heart and awaken
                        in it desires of subsequent stealing away on the part of some other fair
                        woman, as yet unknown, whose heart Dickie would do his utmost to steal in
                        exchange. And this filled her with anxiety and far?reaching fears, not only
                        because it was bitter to have some woman other than herself hold the chief
                        place in her son’s affections, but because she—as John Knott, even as
                        Ludovic Quayle, though from quite other causes—could not but apprehend
                        possibilities of danger, even of disaster, surrounding all question of love
                        and marriage in the strange and unusual case of Richard Calmady.
                    And thinking of these things, her sensibilities heightened and intensified by
                        fatigue and circumstances of time and place, a certain feverishness
                        possessed her. That bed?chamber of many memories—exquisite and tragic—became
                        intolerable to her. She opened the double doors and passed into the
                        Chapel?Room beyond, the light, thrown by the tall wax?candles set in silver
                        branches upon her toilet?table, passing with her through the widely open
                        doors and faintly illuminating the near end of the great room. There was
                        other subdued light in the room as well. For a glowing mass of coal and wood
                        still remained in the brass basket upon the hearth; and the ruddy brightness
                        of it touched the mouldings of the ceiling, glowed on the polished corners
                        and carvings of tables, what?nots, and upon the mahogany frames of solid,
                        Georgian sofas and chairs.
                    At first sight, notwithstanding the roaring of wind and ripping of rain
                        without, there seemed offer of comfort in this calm and spacious place, the
                        atmosphere of it sweet with bowls of autumn violets and greenhouse?grown
                        roses. Katherine sat down in Richard’s low arm?chair and gazed into the
                        crimson heart of the fire. She made a valiant effort to put away haunting
                        fears, to resume her accustomed attitude of stoicism, of tranquil, if
                        slightly defiant, courage. But Care, the leopard, refused to be driven away.
                        Surely, stealthily, he had followed her out of her bed?chamber and now
                        crouched at her side, making his presence felt so that all illusion of
                        comfort speedily fled. She knew that she was alone, consciously and bitterly
                        alone, waking in the midst of the sleeping house. No footstep would echo up
                        the stairs, hot to find her. No voice would call her name, in anxiety for
                        her well?being or in desire. It seemed to Katherine that a desert lay
                        outstretched about her on every hand,
                        while she sat desolate with Care for her sole companion. She recognised that
                        her existing isolation was, in a measure at all events, the natural
                        consequence of her own fortitude and ability. She had ruled with so strong
                        and discreet a hand that the order she had established, the machinery she
                        had set agoing, could now keep going without her. Hence her loneliness. And
                        that loneliness as she sat by the dying fire, while the wind raved without,
                        was dreadful to her, peopled with phantoms she dared not look upon. For, not
                        only the accustomed burden of her motherhood was upon her, but that other
                        unaccustomed burden of admitted middle?age. And this other burden, which it
                        is appointed a woman shall bear while her heart often is still all too sadly
                        young, dragged her down. The conviction pressed home on her that for her the
                        splendid game was indeed over, and that, for very pride’s sake, she must
                        voluntarily, stand aside and submit to rank herself with things grown
                        obsolete, with fashions past and out of date.
                    Katherine rose to her feet, filled, for the moment, by an immense compassion
                        for her own womanhood, by an over?mastering longing for sympathy. She was so
                        tired of the long struggle with sorrow, so tired of her own attitude of
                        sustained courage. And now, when surely a little respite and repose might
                        have been granted her, it seemed that a new order of courage was demanded of
                        her—a courage passive rather than active, a courage of relinquishment and
                        self?effacement. That was a little too much. For all her valiant spirit, she
                        shrank away. She grew weak. She could not face it.
                    And so it happened that to?night—as once long ago, when poor Richard suffered
                        his hour of mental and physical torment at the skilful, yet relentless,
                        hands of Dr. Knott, in the bed?chamber near by—Katherine’s anguish and
                        revolt found expression in restless pacings, and those pacings brought her
                        to the chapel door. It stood ajar. Before the altar the three hanging lamps
                        showed each its tongue of crimson flame. A whiteness of flowers, set in
                        golden vases upon the re?table, was just distinguishable. But the delicately
                        carved spires and canopies of stalls, the fair pictured saints, and figure
                        of the risen Christ—His wounded feet shining like pearls upon the azure
                        floor of heaven—in the east window, were lost in soft, thick, all?pervading
                        gloom. The place was curiously still, as though waiting silently, in solemn
                        and strained expectation for the accomplishment of some mysterious
                        visitation. And, all the while without, the gale flung itself wailing
                        against the angles of the masonry, and the rain beat upon the glass of the
                        high, narrow windows as with a passion of despairing tears.
                    
                    For some time Katherine waited in the doorway, a sombre figure in her
                        trailing, velvet dress. The hushed stillness of the chapel, the confusion
                        and clamour of the tempest, taken thus in connection, were very telling.
                        They exercised a strong influence over her already somewhat exalted
                        imagination. Could it be, she asked herself, that these typified the rest of
                        the religious, and the unrest of the secular life? Julius March would
                        interpret the contrast they afforded in some such manner no doubt. And what
                        if Julius, after all, were right? What if, shutting God out of the heart,
                        you also shut that heart out from all peaceful dwelling places, leaving it
                        homeless, at the mercy of every passing storm? Katherine was bruised in
                        spirit. The longing for some sure refuge, some abiding city was dominant in
                        her. The needs of her soul, so long ignored and repudiated, asserted
                        themselves. Yes, what if Julius were right, and if content and happiness—the
                        only happiness which has in it the grace of continuance—consisted in
                        submission to, and glad acquiescence in, the will of God?
                    Thus did she muse, gazing questioningly at the whiteness of the altar flowers
                        and those steady tongues of flame, hearing the silence, as of reverent
                        waiting, which dwelt in the place. But, on the other hand, to give, in this
                        her hour of weakness, that which she had refused in the hours of
                        clear?seeing strength,—to let go, because she was alone and the unloveliness
                        of age claimed her, that sense of bitter injury and injustice which she had
                        hugged to her breast when young and still aware of her empire,—would not
                        such action be contemptibly poor spirited? She was no child to be humbled
                        into confession by the rod, frightened into submission by the dark. To abase
                        herself, in the hope of receiving spiritual consolation, appeared to her as
                        an act of disloyalty to her dead love and her maimed and crippled son. She
                        turned away with a rather superb lift of her beautiful head, and went back
                        to her own bed?chamber again. She hardened herself in opposition, putting
                        the invitations of grace from her as she might have put those of temptation.
                        She would yield to weakness, to feverish agitations and aimless longings, no
                        more. Whether sleep elected to visit her or not, she would undress and seek
                        her bed.
                    But hardly had she closed the door and, standing before her toilet?table,
                        begun to unclasp the pearls from her throat and bracelets from her wrists,
                        than a sound, quite other than agreeable or reassuring, saluted her ears
                        from close by. It proceeded from the room next door, now unoccupied, since
                        Richard, some five or six years ago, jealous of the dignity of his youth,
                        had petitioned to be permitted to remove himself and his possessions to the
                        suite of rooms immediately below. This comprised the Gun?Room, a bed and dressing room, and a fourth
                        room, connecting with the offices, which came in handy for his valet. Since
                        his decline upon this more commodious apartment, the old nursery had stood
                        vacant. Katherine could not find it in her heart to touch it. It was
                        furnished now as in Dickie’s childish days, when, night and morning, she had
                        visited it to make sure of her darling’s health and safety.
                    And it was in this shrine of tender recollections that disquieting sounds now
                        arose. Hard claws rattled upon the boarded spaces of the floor. Some
                        creature snored and panted against the bottom of the door, pushed it with so
                        heavy a weight that the panels creaked, flung itself down uneasily, then
                        moved to and fro again, with that harsh rattling of claws. The image of
                        Care, the leopard, as embroidered upon the curtains of her bed, was so
                        present to Katherine’s imagination to?night that, for a moment, she lost her
                        hold on probability and common sense. It appeared to her that the anxieties
                        and perturbations which oppressed her had taken on bodily form, and, in the
                        shape of a devouring beast, besieged her chamber door. The conception was
                        grisly. Both mind and body being rather overstrained, it filled her with
                        something approaching panic. No one was within call. To rouse her brother,
                        or Julius, she must make a tour of half the house. Again the creature pushed
                        against the creaking panels, and, then, panting and snoring, began ripping
                        away the matting from the door?sill.
                    The terror of the unknown is, after all, greater than that of the known. It
                        was improbable, though the hour was late and the night wild, that savage
                        beasts or cares incarnate should actually be in possession of Dickie’s
                        disused nursery. Katherine braced herself and turned the handle. Still the
                        vision disclosed by the opening door was at first sight monstrous enough. A
                        moving mass of dirty white, low down against the encircling darkness, bandy
                        legs, and great grinning mouth. The bull?dog stood up, whining, fawning upon
                        her, thrusting his heavy head into her hand.
                    “Why, Camp, good old friend, what brings you here? Are you, too, homeless
                        to?night? But why have you deserted your master?”
                    And then Lady Calmady’s panic fears took on another aspect. Far from being
                        allayed they were increased. An apprehension of something actively evil
                        abroad in the great, sleeping house assailed her. She trembled from head to
                        foot. And yet, even while she shrank and trembled, her courage reawoke. For
                        she perceived that as yet she need not rank herself wholly among fashions
                        passed and things grown obsolete. She had her place and value still. She was
                        wanted, she was called for—that she
                        knew—though by whom wanted and for what purpose she, as yet, knew not.
                    The bull?dog, meanwhile, his heavy head carried low, his crooked tail
                        drooping, trotted slowly away into the darkness and then trotted back. He
                        squatted upon his haunches, looking up with anxious, bloodshot eyes. He
                        trotted away again, and again returned and stood waiting, his whole aspect
                        eloquent in its dumb appeal. He implored her to follow, and Katherine,
                        fetching one of the silver candlesticks from her dressing?table, obeyed.
                    She followed her ugly, faithful guide across the vacant disused nursery, and
                        on down the uncarpeted turning staircase which opens into the square lobby
                        outside the Gun?Room. The diamond panes of the staircase windows chattered
                        in their leaded frames, and the wind shrieked in the spouts, and angles, and
                        carved stonework, of the inner courtyard as she passed. The gale was at its
                        height, loud and insistent. Yet the many?toned violence of it seemed to bear
                        strange and intimate relation—as that of a great orchestra to a single
                        dominant human voice into the subtle, evil influence which she felt to be at
                        large within the sleeping house. And so, without pausing to consider the
                        wisdom of her action, pushed by the conviction that something of profound
                        import was taking place, and that someone, or something, must be saved by
                        her from threatening danger, Katherine threw open the Gun?Room door.
                    The shout of the storm seemed far away. This place was quick with stillness
                        too, with the hush of waiting for the accomplishment of some mysterious
                        event or visitation, even as the dark chapel upstairs had been. Only here
                        moving effect of soft, brilliant light, of caressing warmth, of vague,
                        insidious fragrance met her. Katherine Calmady had only known passion in its
                        purest and most legitimate form. It had been for her, innocent of all
                        grossness, or suggestion of degradation, fair and lovely and natural,
                        revelation of highest and most enchanting secrets. But having once known it
                        in its fulness, she could not fail to recognise its presence, even though it
                        wore a diabolic, rather than angelic face. That passion met her now,
                        exultant, effulgent, along with that light and heat and fragrance, she did
                        not for an instant doubt. And the splendour of its near neighbourhood turned
                        her faint with dread and with poignant memories. She paused upon the
                        threshold, supporting herself with one hand against the cold, stone jamb of
                        the arched doorway, while in the other she held the massive candlestick and
                        its flickering, draught?driven lights.
                    A mist was before her eyes, a singing in her ears, so that she had much ado
                        to see clearly and reckon justly with that which she did see. Helen de Vallorbes, clothed in a
                        flowing, yet clinging, silken garment of turquoise, shot with blue purple
                        and shimmering glaucous green—a garment in colour such as that with which
                        the waves of Adriatic might have clothed the rosy limbs of new?born
                        Aphrodite, as she rose from the cool, translucent sea?deeps—knelt upon the
                        tiger?skin before the dancing fire. Her hands grasped the two arms of
                        Richard’s chair. She leaned down right across it, the lines and curves of
                        her beautiful body discernible under her delicate draperies. The long, open
                        sleeves of her dress fell away from her outstretched arms, showing them in
                        their completeness from wrist to shoulder. Her head was thrown back, so that
                        her rounded throat stood out, and the pure line of her lower jaw was
                        salient. Her eyes were half closed, while all the mass of her honey?coloured
                        hair was gathered low down on the nape of her neck into a net of golden
                        thread. A golden, netted girdle was knotted loosely about her loins, the
                        tasselled ends of it dragging upon the floor. She wore no jewels, nor were
                        they needed, for the loveliness of her person, discovered rather than
                        concealed by those changeful sea?blue draperies, was already dangerously
                        potent.
                    All this Katherine saw—a radiant vision of youth, an incarnation, not of care
                        and haunting fears, but of pleasure and haunting delights. And she saw more
                        than this. For in the depths of that long, low arm?chair Richard sat,
                        stiffly erect, his face dead white, thin, and strained—Richard, as she had
                        never beheld him before, though she knew the face well enough. It was his
                        father’s face as she had seen it on her marriage night, and on his death
                        night too, when his fingers had been clasped about her throat, to the point
                        of strangulation. Katherine dared look no longer. Her heart stood still.
                        Shame and anger took her, and along with these an immense nostalgia for that
                        which had once been and was not. Her instinct was of flight. But Camp
                        trotted forward, growling, and squatted between the pedestals of the library
                        table, his red eyes blinking sullenly in the square shadow. Involuntarily
                        Katherine followed him part way across the room.
                    Richard looked full at his cousin, absorbed, rigid, an amazement of question
                        in his eyes. Not a muscle of his face moved. But Madame de Vallorbes’
                        absorption was less complete. She started slightly and half turned her
                        head.
                    “Ah! there is that dog again,” she said. “What has brought him back? He hates
                        me.”
                    “Damn the dog!” Richard exclaimed, hoarsely under his breath. Then he
                        said:—“Helen, Helen, you know”—
                    But Madame de Vallorbes had turned her head yet farther, and her arched eyelids opened quite wide for
                        once, while she smiled a little, her lips parting and revealing her pretty
                        teeth tightly set.
                    “Ah! the advent of the bull?dog explains itself,” she exclaimed. “Here is
                        Aunt Katherine herself!”
                    Slowly, and with an inimitable grace, she rose to her feet. Her long, winged
                        sleeves floated back into place, covering her bare arms. Her composure was
                        astonishing, even to herself. Yet her breath came a trifle quick as she
                        contemplated Lady Calmady with the same enigmatic smile, her chin carried
                        high—the finest suggestion of challenge and insolence in it—her eyes still
                        unusually wide open and startlingly bright.
                    “Richard holds a little court to?night,” she continued airily, “thanks to the
                        storm. You also have come to seek the protection of his presence it appears,
                        Aunt Katherine. Indeed, I am not surprised, for you certainly brew very wild
                        weather at Brockhurst, at times.”
                    Something in the young lady’s bearing had restored Katherine’s
                        self?control.
                    “The wind is going down,” she replied calmly. “The storm need not alarm you,
                        or keep you watching any longer, Helen.”
                    “Ah! pardon me—you know you are accustomed to these tempests,” the younger
                        woman rejoined. “To me it still sounds more than sufficiently violent.”
                    “Yes, but merely on this side of the house, where Richard’s and my rooms are
                        situated. The wind has shifted, and I believe on your side you will suffer
                        no further disturbance. You will find it quite quiet. Then, moreover, you
                        have to rise early to?morrow—or rather to?day. You have a long journey
                        before you and should secure all the rest you can.”
                    Madame de Vallorbes gathered her silken draperies about her absently. For a
                        moment she looked down at the tiger?skin, then back at Lady Calmady.
                    “Ah yes!” she said, “it is thoughtful of you to remind me of that. To?day I
                        start on my homeward journey. It should give me very much pleasure, should
                        it not? But—do not be shocked, Aunt Katherine—I confess I am not altogether
                        enraptured at the prospect. I have been too happy, too kindly treated, here
                        at Brockhurst, for it to be other than a sorrow to me to depart.”
                    She turned to Richard, her expression serious, intimate, appealing. Then she
                        shook back her fair head, and as though in obedience to an irresistible
                        movement of tenderness, stooped down swiftly over him—seeming to drown him
                        in the shimmering waves of some azure, and
                        thin, clear green, and royal, blue?purple sea—while she kissed him full and
                        daringly upon the mouth.
                    “Good?night, good?bye, dear Dickie,” she said. “Yes, good?bye—for I almost
                        hope I may not see you in the morning. It would be a little chilly and
                        inadequate, any other farewell after this. I am grateful to you.—And
                        remember, I too am among those who, to their sorrow, never forget.”
                    She approached Lady Calmady, her manner natural, unabashed, playful even, and
                        gay.
                    “See, I am ready to go to bed like a good child, Aunt Katherine,” she said,
                        “supported by your assurance that my side of the house is no longer rendered
                        terrific by wind and rain. But—I am so distressed to trouble you—but all the
                        lamps are out, and I am none too sure of my way. It would be a rather tragic
                        ending to my happy visit if I incontinently lost myself and. wandered till
                        dawn, disconsolate, up and down the passages and stairways of Richard’s
                        magnificent house. I might even wander in here by mistake again, and that
                        would be unpardonably indiscreet, wouldn’t it? So, will you light me to my
                        own quarters, Aunt Katherine? Thank you—how charmingly kind and sweet you
                        are!”
                    As she spoke Madame de Vallorbes moved lightly away and passed on to the
                        lobby, the heels of her pretty, cloth?of?gold slippers ringing quite sharply
                        on the grey, stone quarries without. And, even as a little while back she
                        had followed the heavy?headed and ungainly bull?dog, so now Lady Calmady, in
                        her trailing, black, velvet dress, silver candlestick in hand, followed this
                        radiant, fleet?fooled creature, whose every movement was eloquent of youth
                        and health and an almost prodigal joy of living. Neither woman spoke as they
                        crossed the lobby, and passed the pierced and arcaded stone screen which
                        divides the outer from the inner hall. Now and again the flickering
                        candle?light glinted on the younger woman’s girdle or the net which
                        controlled the soft masses of her honey?coloured hair. Now and again a
                        draught taking the folds of her silken raiment blew it hither and thither,
                        disclosing her beautiful arms or quick?moving slippered feet. She was
                        clothed with splendour of the sea, crowned, and shod, and girt about the
                        loins, with gold. And she fled on silently, till the wide, shallow?stepped
                        stairway, leading up to the rooms, she occupied, was reached. There, for a
                        moment, she paused.
                    “Pray come no farther,” she said, and went on rapidly up the flight. On the
                        landing she stopped, a dimly discerned figure, blue and gold against the dim
                        whiteness of high panelled walls, moulded ceiling, stairway, and long
                        descending balustrade.
                    
                    “I have arrived!” she cried, and her clear voice took strange inflections of
                        mockery and laughter. “I have arrived! I am perfectly secure now and safe.
                        Let us hope all other inmates of Brockhurst are equally so this stormy
                        night. A thousand thanks, dear Aunt Katherine, for your guidance, and a
                        thousand apologies for bringing you so far. Now let me trouble you no
                        longer.”
                    The Gun?Room Katherine found just as she had left it, save that Camp stood on
                        the tiger?skin before the fire, his fore?paws and his great, grinning muzzle
                        resting on the arm of Richard’s chair. Camp whined a little. Mechanically
                        the young man raised his hand and pulled the dog’s long, drooping ears. His
                        face was still dead white, and there were lines under his eyes and about the
                        corners of his mouth, as of one who tries to subdue expression of physical
                        pain. He looked straight at Lady Calmady.
                    “Ah!” he said, “so you have come back! You observe I have changed
                        partners!”
                    And again he pulled the dog’s ears, while it appeared to the listener that
                        his voice curiously echoed that other voice which had so lately addressed
                        and dismissed her, taking on inflections of mockery. But as she nerved
                        herself to answer, he continued, hastily:—
                    “I want nothing, dear mother, nothing in the world. Pray don’t concern
                        yourself any more about me to?night. Haven’t I Camp for company? Lamps? Oh!
                        I can put them out perfectly well myself. You were right, of course,
                        perfectly right, to come if you were anxious about me. But now surely you
                        are satisfied?”
                    Suddenly Richard bowed his head, putting both hands over his eyes.
                    “Only now, mother, if you love me, go,” he said, with a great sob in his
                        voice. “For God’s sake go, and leave me to myself.”
                    But after sleepless hours, in the melancholy, blear dawn of the November day,
                        Katherine lying, face downwards, within the shelter of the embroidered
                        curtains of the state bed, made her submission at last and prayed.
                    “I am helpless, O Father Almighty! I have neither wit nor understanding, nor
                        strength. Have mercy, lest my reason depart from me. I have sinned, for
                        years I have sinned, setting my will, my judgment, my righteousness, against
                        Thine. Take me, forgive me, teach me. I bring nothing. I ask everything. I
                        am empty. Fill me with Thyself, even as with water one fills an empty cup.
                        Give me the courage of patience instead of the courage of battle. Give me
                        the courage of meekness in place of the courage of pride.”
                
            
            
            
                BOOK IV
                A SLIP BETWIXT CUP AND LIP
                
                    CHAPTER I
                    LADY LOUISA BARKING TRACES THE FINGER OF PROVIDENCE
                    THE spirit of unrest, which had entered Brockhurst in the dim
                        October weather, along with certain guests, did not—Lady Calmady had
                        foreseen as much—leave with their leaving. It remained a constant quantity.
                        Further, it engendered events very far away from and, at first sight, wholly
                        at variance with those which had accompanied its advent.
                    For example, Lady Louisa Barking, passing through Lowndes Square one bleak,
                        March morning on her way from Albert Gate to do a little, quiet shopping in
                        Sloane Street, observed that the Calmadys’ house—situated at the corner of
                        the square and of —— Street—was given over to a small army of work?people.
                        During Richard’s minority it had been let for a term of years to Sir
                        Reginald Aldham, of Aldham Revel in Midlandshire. Since Dickie’s coming of
                        age it had stood empty, pending a migration of the Brockhurst establishment,
                        which migration had, in point of fact, never yet taken place. But now, as
                        Lady Louisa, walking with a firm and distinguished tread along the grey,
                        wind?swept pavements, remarked, the house was in process of redecoration, of
                        painting within and without. And, looking on these things, Lady Louisa’s
                        soul received very sensible comfort. She was extremely tenacious of purpose.
                        And, in respect of one purpose at least, Heaven had not seen fit, during the
                        last four or five months, to smile upon her. Superstitious persons might
                        have regarded this fact as a warning. Lady Louisa, however, merely regarded
                        it as an oversight. Now at last, so it appeared to her, Heaven had awakened
                        to a consciousness of its delinquencies, with the satisfactory result that her own commendable patience touched
                        on reasonable hope of reward. And this was the more agreeable and comforting
                        to her because the Quayle family affairs were not, it must be owned, at
                        their brightest and best just at present. Clouds lowered on the family
                        horizon. For some weeks she had felt the situation called for effective
                        action on her part. But then, how to act most effectively she knew not. Now
                        the needed opportunity stared her in the face, along with those high ladders
                        and scaffolding poles surrounding the Calmady mansion. She decided, there
                        and then, to take the field; but to take it discreetly, to effect a turning
                        movement, not attempt a front attack.
                    So, on her return to Albert Gate, after the completion of her morning
                        shopping, she employed the half?hour before luncheon in writing an
                        affectionate, sisterly letter to Ludovic Quayle. That accomplished, young
                        gentleman happened, as she was aware, to be staying at Brockhurst. She asked
                        his opinion—in confidence—on the present very uncomfortable condition of the
                        family fortunes, declaring how implicitly she trusted his good sense and
                        respected his judgment. Then, passing adroitly to less burning questions,
                        she ended thus—
                    “Pray let Lady Calmady know how really delighted everybody is to
                        hear she and Sir Richard will be up this season. I do trust, as I am such a
                        near neighbour, that if there is anything I can do for her,
                        either now, or later when they are settling, she will not hesitate to let me
                        know. It would be such a sincere pleasure to me. Mr. Barking is
                        too busy with tiresome, parliamentary committees to be able to allow himself
                        more than a week at Easter. I should be thankful for a longer
                        rest, for I am feeling dreadfully fagged. But you know how conscientious he
                        always is; and of course one must pay a certain price for the
                        confidence the leaders of one’s party repose in one. So do tell Lady Calmady
                        we are quite sure to be back immediately after Easter.”
                    Reading which sentences Mr. Quayle permitted himself a fine smile on more
                        than one count.
                    “Louisa reminds me of the sweet little poem of ‘Bruce and the Spider,’” he
                        said to himself. “She displays heroic persistence. Her methods are a trifle
                        crude though. To provoke statements by making them is but a primitive form
                        of diplomacy. Yet why be hard upon Louisa? Like my poor, dear father, she,
                        more often than not, means well.”
                    It followed that some few days later, on his return to Whitney, Ludovic
                        indited a voluminous letter to his sister, in his very best style.—“It is rather a waste,” he reflected
                        regretfully. “She will miss the neatest points. The happiest turns of phrase
                        will be lost upon Louisa!” To recoup himself for which subjective loss the
                        young man amused himself by giving a very alarmist account of certain
                        matters, though he was constrained to admit the pleasing fact that Sir
                        Richard and Lady Calmady really had it in contemplation to go up to town
                        somewhere about Easter.
                    And, truth to tell, the main subject of Mr. Quayle’s letter could hardly be
                        otherwise than disquieting, for it was undeniable that Lord Shotover’s debts
                        were causing both himself and others serious embarrassment at this period.
                        There was nothing new in this, that young nobleman’s indebtedness being a
                        permanent factor in his family’s financial situation. This spring his
                        indebtedness had passed from the chronic to the acute stage, that was all;
                        with the consequence that it became evident Lord Shotover’s debts must be
                        paid, or his relations must submit to the annoyance of seeing him pass
                        through the Bankruptcy Court. Which of these objectionable alternatives was
                        least objectionable Lord Fallowfeild still stood in doubt, when, in
                        obedience to the parental summons, the young man reached Whitney. Lord
                        Fallowfeild had whipped himself up into a laudable heat of righteous
                        indignation before the arrival of the prodigal. Yet he contrived to be out
                        when the dog?cart conveying the said prodigal, and Mr. Decies, of the 101st
                        Lancers—a friend of Guy Quayle, home on leave from India, whence he brought
                        news of his fellow?subaltern—actually drove up to the door. When, pushed
                        thereto by an accusing conscience, he did at last come in, Lord Fallowfeild
                        easily persuaded himself that there really was not time before dinner for
                        the momentous conversation. Moreover, being very full of the milk of human
                        kindness, he found it infinitely more agreeable to hear the praises of the
                        absent son, Guy, than to fall foul of the present son, Shotover. So that it
                        was not till quite late that night, by which time he was slightly sleepy,
                        while his anger had sensibly evaporated, that the interview did actually
                        take place.
                    “Now then, Shotover, march off to the place of execution,” Ludovic Quayle
                        said sweetly, as he picked up his bedroom candlestick. “It was a deep and
                        subtle thought that of bringing down Decies. Only, query, did you think of
                        it, or was it just a bit of your usual luck?”
                    Lord Shotover smiled rather ruefully upon his prosperous, and, it may be
                        added, slightly parsimonious, younger brother.
                    “Well, I don’t deny it did occur to me it might work,” he admitted. “And after all, you know, one mercy is
                        there’s no real vice about his dear old lordship.”
                    Lord Fallowfeild fidgeted about the library, his expression that of a
                        well?nourished and healthy, but rather fretful infant.
                    “Oh! ah!—well—so here you are, Shotover,” he said. “Unpleasant business this
                        of yours—uncommonly disagreeable business for both of us.”
                    “Deucèd unpleasant business,” the younger man echoed heartily. He closely
                        resembled his father in looks, save that he was clean shaven and of a
                        lighter build. Both father and son had the same slight lisp in
                        speaking.—“Deucèd unpleasant,” he repeated. “Nobody can feel that more than
                        I do.”
                    “Can’t they though?” said Lord Fallowfeild, with a charmingly innocent air of
                        surprise. “There, sit down, Shotover, won’t you? It’s a painful thing to do,
                        but we’ve got to talk it over, I suppose.”
                    “Well, of course, if you’re kind enough to give me the time, you know,—that’s
                        rather what I came down here for.”
                    “So you did though,” the elder man returned, brightening as though making an
                        illuminating discovery. Then, fearing he was forgetting his part and
                        becoming amiable too rapidly, he made a gallant effort to whip up his
                        somnolent indignation. “It’s very distressing to me to put it so plainly,
                        but in my opinion it’s a disgraceful business.”
                    “Oh! I give you my word I know it,” Lord Shotover replied, with most
                        disarming candour. His father affected, with difficulty, not to hear the
                        remark.
                    “It doesn’t do for a man in your position to be owing money all over the
                        country. It brings the aristocracy into contempt with the shop?keeping
                        class. They’re always on the lookout for the shortcomings of their
                        superiors, those people. And they do pay their debts, you see.”
                    “They’ve always got such a thundering lot of money,” Lord Shotover put in.
                        “Don’t know how they’d contrive to spend it unless they did pay their
                        debts.”
                    “Oh! ah!—yes”—His father hesitated. It struck him Shotover was a reasonable
                        fellow, very reasonable, and he took the whole matter in a very proper
                        spirit. In short, it was not easy to blow up Shotover. Lord Fallowfeild
                        thrust his hands far down into his trouser pockets and turned sideways in
                        the great, leather?covered chair.
                    “I’m not narrow?minded or prejudiced,” he began. “I always have kept on civil
                        terms with those sort of people and always will. Courtesy is an obligation
                        on the part of a gentleman and a
                        Christian. I’d as soon be rude to my tailor as eat with my knife. But a man
                        must respect his own rank or others won’t respect it, especially in these
                        nasty, radical, levelling times. You must stand by your class. There’s a
                        vulgar proverb about the bird that fouls its own nest, you know. Well, I
                        never did that. I’ve always stood by my own class. Helped my poor brother
                        Archibald—you can’t remember him—weren’t born at the time —to run away with
                        Lady Jane Bateman. Low, common fellow Bateman. I never liked Bateman. She
                        left Ludovic all that money, you know”—
                    “Wish to goodness she’d left it to me,” murmured Lord Shotover.
                    “Eh?” inquired his father. Then he fell into a moralising vein. “Nasty,
                        disreputable things elopements. I never did approve of elopements. Leave
                        other men’s wives alone, Shotover.”
                    The younger man’s mouth worked a little.
                    “The nuisance is sometimes they won’t leave you alone.”
                    Lord Fallowfeild gazed at him a moment, very genially.
                    “Oh! ah!—well—I suppose they won’t,” he said, and he chuckled. “Anyhow I
                        stood by your poor uncle Archibald. He was my brother of course, and she was
                        a second cousin of your mother’s, so I felt bound to. And I saw them across
                        the Channel and into the Paris train. Dreadfully bad crossing that night I
                        remember, no private cabins to be had, and Lady Jane was dreadfully ill.
                        Never take your wife to sea on your honey moon, Shotover. It’s too great a
                        risk. That business cost me a lot of money one way and another, and let me
                        in for a most painful scene with Bateman afterwards. But, as I say, you’re
                        bound to stand by your own class. That’ll be my only reason for helping you,
                        you understand, Shotover, if I do help you.”
                    “And I am sure I hope you will.”—The young man rose and stood with his back
                        to the fire and his hands under his coat?tails. He stooped a little, looking
                        down pensively at the hearth?rug between his feet. His clothes—not yet paid
                        for, or likely to be?claimed admiration, so did the length of his legs and
                        the neatness of his narrow hips.
                    “I can only assure you I shall be most awfully grateful if you do help me,”
                        he said quietly. “I don’t pretend to deserve it—but that doesn’t lessen
                        gratitude—rather the other way, don’t you know. I shall never forget
                        it.”
                    “Won’t you though?”
                    And for the life of him Lord Fallowfeild could not help beaming upon this
                        handsome prodigal.—“Uncommonly high? bred
                        looking fellow, Shotover,” he said to himself. “Don’t wonder women run after
                        him. Uncommonly high?bred, and shows very nice feeling too.”
                    And then the kindly and simple gentleman drew himself up with a mental jerk,
                        remembering that he was there to curse rather than to bless. He fidgeted
                        violently.
                    “Not that I have actually made up my mind to help you yet,” he went on. “I am
                        very much inclined to cast you adrift. It distresses me to put it to you so
                        plainly, but you are disgrace—fully extravagant, you know, Shotover.”
                    “Oh! I know,” the young man admitted.
                    “You’re a selfish fellow.”—Lord Fallowfeild became relentless. “Yes, it’s
                        extremely painful to me to say it to you, but you are downright selfish. And
                        that, in the long?run, comes uncommonly hard on your sisters. Good girls,
                        your sisters. Never given your mother or me any trouble, your sisters. But
                        money has to come from somewhere, and each time I pay your debts I have to
                        cut down your sisters’ portions.”
                    “Yes, I know, and that’s what’s made me so infernally unwilling to come to
                        you about my affairs,” Lord Shotover said, in tones of perfectly genuine
                        regret.
                    “Is it though?” his father commented.—“Good fellow at heart,” he added to
                        himself. “Displays very proper feeling. Always was a good?hearted
                        fellow.”
                    “I can only tell you I’ve been awfully wretched about it for the last three
                        months.”
                    “Have you though?” said Lord Fallowfeild, with sympathy.
                    “I got just about as low as I well could. I felt I was nothing but a nuisance
                        and encumbrance. It was beastly to think of fleecing the girls, don’t you
                        know. I came precious near cutting my throat—only that seemed rather a dirty
                        way of getting out of it all.”
                    “So it is—poor boy—quite right. Nasty mean way of shirking your
                        responsibilities. Quite agree with you. I have never had any opinion of a
                        man who cut his throat. Never mention such a thing, Shotover.” He blew his
                        nose resonantly.—“Never talk of such a thing,” he repeated. “And —poor
                        boy—I—I’ll pay your debts. Only I tell you this really is the last time.
                        There must be no misunderstanding about that. You must reform, Shotover, if
                        it’s only on account of your sisters. I don’t want to take an unfair
                        advantage of you in alluding to your sisters. Only you must understand
                        clearly this is the last time. You see it’s becoming too frequent. I don’t
                        want to press the case unduly against you, but you recollect—I’m sure you
                            do— I paid your debts in fifty?eight,
                        and again in sixty?two, or sixty?three, was it? Yes, it must have been
                        sixty?three, because that was the year my poor friend Tom Henniker died.
                        Good fellow Henniker—I missed Henniker. And they wanted me to take over the
                        hounds. Nice fellow in the hunting?field, Henniker. Never saw him lose his
                        temper but once, and that was when Image rode over the hounds on the edge of
                        Talepenny Wood.”
                    “Rather coarse sort of brute, Image,” put in Lord Shotover.
                    “And Henniker had such an excellent manner with the farmers, genial and
                        cheery, very cheery at times and yet without any loss of dignity. Great test
                        of a man’s breeding that, being cheery without loss of dignity. Now my poor
                        friend, Henniker—oh! ah! yes, where was I though? Your debts now, Shotover.
                        Yes, it must have been sixty?three, because they all wanted me to succeed
                        him as master, and I had to tell them I could not afford it, so it must have
                        been just after I cleared you.”
                    He looked at his erring son with the most engaging air of appeal and
                        remonstrance.
                    “Really it won’t do, Shotover,” he repeated. “You must reform. It’s becoming
                        too frequent. You’d better travel for a time. That’s the proper thing for a
                        man in your position to do when he’s in low water. Not scuttle, of course. I
                        wouldn’t on any account have you scuttle. But, three weeks or a month hence
                        when things are getting into shape, just travel for a time. I’ll arrange it
                        all for you. Only never talk of cutting your throat again. And you quite
                        understand this is positively the last time. I am very much in earnest, my
                        dear boy, nothing will move me. This settlement is final. And we’ll just run
                        up quietly to town to?morrow and have a talk with my lawyers, Fox and
                        Goteway. Very civil and accommodating fellow, Goteway—he may be able to make
                        some suggestions. Very nice, confidential?mannered person, Goteway. Knows
                        how to hold his tongue and doesn’t ask unnecessary questions—useful man,
                        Goteway”—
                    Which things coming to the knowledge of Lady Louisa Barking moved her at once
                        to wrath, and to deepened conviction that the moment for decisive action had
                        arrived. It appeared to her that her father had put himself out of court.
                        His weakness regarding his eldest son had practically delivered him into her
                        hand. She congratulated herself upon the good which is thus beneficently
                        permitted to spring out of evil. Yet while recognising that a just
                        Providence sometimes, at all events, overrules human folly to the production
                        of happy results, she was by no means disposed to spare the mortal whose
                            individual foolishness had given the
                        divine wisdom its opportunity. Therefore when, some few days later, Lord
                        Fallowfeild called on her, after a third or fourth interview with Messrs.
                        Fox and Goteway—beaming, expansive, from the sense of a merciful action
                        accomplished—she received him in a distinctly repressive manner. The great,
                        white and gold drawing?rooms in Albert Gate were not more frigid or
                        unbending than the bearing of their mistress as she suffered her father’s
                        embrace. And that amiable nobleman, notwithstanding his large frame and
                        exalted social position, felt himself shiver inwardly in the presence of his
                        daughter, even as he could remember shivering when, as a small schoolboy, he
                        had been summoned to the dread presence of the headmaster.
                    “Very good rooms these of yours, Louisa,” he began hastily. “Always have
                        admired these rooms. Capital space for entertaining. Barking was quite right
                        to secure the house as soon as it was in the market. I told him at the time
                        he would never regret it.”
                    Lady Louisa did not answer, but called after the retreating footman, who had
                        just brought in a stately and limited tea?tray, much silver and little
                        food:—“I am not at home, William.”
                    Then, as she put small and accurate measures of tea into a massive teapot,
                        she added severely:—“What is all this I hear about Shotover, papa?”
                    “Oh! ah! yes—poor Shotover. Came up to town together again to?day.
                        Good?hearted fellow, your brother Shotover, but thoughtless. However, I have
                        had a most satisfactory talk with my men of business, Fox and Goteway. I
                        know Barking does not think much of Fox and Goteway. Wanted me to go to his
                        own lawyers, Hodges and Banquet. But if anyone serves you conscientiously
                        you should not leave them. It’s against my principles to turn off those who
                        serve me conscientiously. I told Barking so at the time, I remember. It came
                        out of the business about your settlements, wasn’t it—or the last time I
                        paid Shotover’s”—He cleared his throat hurriedly. “I see the Calmadys’ house
                        is being done up,” he continued. “Nice young fellow, Calmady. But I never
                        can help feeling a certain awkwardness with him. Takes you up rather short
                        in conversation too sometimes. Terribly distressing thing his deformity and
                        all that, both for himself and Lady Calmady. Hope, perhaps, she doesn’t feel
                        it as some women would though—tactful woman, Lady Calmady, and very good
                        woman of business. Still, never feel quite at my ease with Lady Calmady.
                        Can’t help wondering how they’ll do in London, you know. Rather difficult
                        thing his going about much with that”—
                    
                    Lady Louisa held out a small teacup. Her high penetrating voice asserted
                        itself resolutely against her father’s kindly, stumbling chatter, as she
                        asked:—
                    “Is it true you are not coming up from Whitney this season?”
                    “Oh!—tea—yes, thank you very much, my dear. No—well, I think possibly we may
                        not come up this year. Goteway believes he has heard of a very eligible
                        tenant for the Belgrave Square house, very eligible. And so, nothing
                        actually decided yet, but I think very possibly we may not come up.”
                    He spoke apologetically, regarding his daughter, over the small teacup, with
                        an expression of entreaty. Every feature of his handsome, innocent
                        countenance begged her not to deal harshly with him. But Lady Louisa
                        remained obdurate.
                    “Shotover’s conduct is becoming a positive scandal,” she said.
                    “Not conduct, my dear—no, not conduct, only money,” protested Lord
                        Fallowfeild.
                    “If money is not conduct I really don’t know what is,” retorted his daughter.
                        “I do not pretend to go in for such fine distinctions. In any case Mr.
                        Barking heard the most shocking rumours at his club the other day.”
                    “Did he though?” ejaculated Lord Fallowfeild.
                    “He was too considerate to tell me anything very definite, but he felt that,
                        going out and seeing everybody as of course I have to, it was only right I
                        should have some hint of what was being said. Everyone is talking about
                        Shotover. You can imagine how perfectly intolerable it is for me to feel
                        that my brother’s debts are being canvassed in this sort of way.”
                    “I am very sorry there should be any gossip,” Lord Fallowfeild said humbly.
                        “Nasty thing gossip—lies, too, mostly, all of it. Nasty, low, unprofitable
                        thing gossip.”
                    “And, of course, your all not coming up will give colour to it.”
                    “Will it though? I never thought of that. You always see straight through
                        things, Louisa. You have by far the best head in the family, except
                        Ludovic—uncommonly clever fellow, Ludovic. Wonder if I had better talk it
                        all over with Ludovic? If you and he agree in thinking our not coming up
                        will make more talk, why, if only on Shotover’s account, I”—
                    But this was not in the least the turn which his daughter desired the
                        conversation to take.
                    “Pray remember you have other children besides Shotover, papa!” she said
                        hastily. “And for everyone’s sake run no
                        further risk of impoverishing yourself. It is obvious that you must save
                        where you can. If there is the chance of a good let for the Belgrave Square
                        house, it would be madness to refuse it. And, after all, you do not really
                        care about London. If there are any important debates in the Lords, you can
                        always come up for a night or so. It does not matter about you.”
                    “Oh! doesn’t it though?” Lord Fallowfeild put in quite humbly and gently.
                    “And mama would always rather stay on at Whitney. Only it must not appear as
                        if we were the least uncomfortable at meeting people. I shall make it a
                        point to go everywhere. I shall be dreadfully fagged, of course, but I feel
                        it a duty to all of you to do so. And I should like the girls to go out too.
                        People must not suppose they have no gowns to their backs. Maggie and Emily
                        have had several seasons. I am less worried about them. But Connie must be
                        seen. She is looking extremely pretty.”
                    “Isn’t she though?” Lord Fallowfeild chimed in, brightening. The picture of
                        those reportedly gownless backs had depressed him abominably.
                    “Yes, and she must have every advantage. I have quite decided that. She must
                        come up to me at once. I shall write to mama and point out to her how
                        necessary it is that one of the girls, at least, should be very much
                            en evidence this year. And I am most
                        anxious it should be Connie. As I undertake all the fatigue and
                        responsibility I feel I have a right of choice. I will see that she is
                        properly dressed. I undertake everything. Now, papa, if you are going down
                        by the 6.10 train you ought to start. Will you have a hansom?”
                    Then, as she shook hands with him, and presented an unresponsive cheek to the
                        paternal lips, Lady Louisa clinched the matter.
                    “I may consider it quite settled, then, about Constance?” she said. “I
                        mentioned it to Mr. Barking yesterday, and we agreed it ought to be done
                        even if it entailed a little inconvenience and expense. It is not right to
                        be indifferent to appearances. The other two girls can come up for a little
                        while later. Alicia must help. Of course there is not much room in that
                        wretched, little Chelsea house of hers, but George Winterbotham can turn out
                        of his dressing?room. Alicia must exert herself for once. And, papa, Connie
                        need not bring a maid. Those country girls from Whitney don’t always fit in
                        quite well with the upper servants, and yet there is a difficulty about
                        keeping them out of the housekeeper’s room. I will provide a maid for her.
                        I’ll write to mama about everything
                        to?morrow. And, papa, I do beg you will discourage Shotover from coming
                        here, for really I would much rather not see him at present. Good?bye. Pray
                        start at once. You have barely time to get to Waterloo.”
                    And so Lord Fallowfeild started, a little flustered, a little crestfallen, on
                        his homeward journey.
                    “Able woman, Louisa,” he said to himself. “Uncommonly clear?sighted woman,
                        Louisa. But a trifle hard. Wonder if Barking ever feels that, now? Not very
                        sensitive man, Barking, though. Suppose that hardness in Louisa comes of her
                        having no children. Always plenty of children in our family—except my poor
                        brother Archibald and Lady Jane, they had no children. Yet somebody told me
                        she’d had one by Bateman, which died. Never understood about that. Capital
                        thing for Ludovic she never did have any by Archibald. But it’s always
                        curious to me Louisa should have no children. Shouldn’t have expected that
                        somehow of Barking and Louisa. Sets her more free, of course, in regard to
                        her sisters. Very thoughtful for her sisters, Louisa. I suppose she must
                        have Connie. Nuisance all this gossip about Shotover. Pretty child,
                        Connie—best looking of the lot. People say she’s like me.—Wonderfully pretty
                        child, Connie. That young fellow Decies thinks so too, or I’m very much
                        mistaken. Very much attracted by Connie. Fine young fellow, Decies—comfort
                        to hear of Guy from him. Suppose she must go up to Louisa? Gentleman?like
                        fellow, Decies. I shouldn’t care to part with Connie”—
                    And then, his reflections becoming increasingly interjectional as the train
                        trundled away south?westward, Lord Fallowfeild leaned back in the corner of
                        the railway carriage and fell very fast asleep.
                
                
                    CHAPTER II
                    TELLING HOW VANITY FAIR MADE ACQUAINTANCE WITH RICHARD
                        CALMADY
                    THERE was no refusing belief to the fact. The old, cloistered life
                        at Brockhurst, for good or evil, was broken up. Katherine Calmady recognised
                        that another stage had been reached on the relentless journey, that new
                        prospects opened, new horizons invited her anxious gaze. She recognised also
                        that all which had been was dead, according to its existing form, and should receive burial, silent, somewhat
                        sorrowful, yet not without hope of eventual resurrection in regard to the
                        nobler part of it. The fair coloured petals of the flower fall away from the
                        maturing fruit, the fruit rots to set free the seed. Yet the vital principle
                        remains, life lives on, though the material clothing of it change. And,
                        therefore, Katherine—an upspringing of patience and chastened fortitude
                        within her, the result of her reconciliation to the Divine Light and
                        resignation of herself to its indwelling—set herself, not to arrest the
                        falling of the flower, but to help the ripening of the seed. If the old
                        garments were out of date, too strait and narrow for her child’s growth,
                        then let others be found him. She did not wait to have him ask, she offered,
                        and that without hint of reproach or of unwillingness.
                    Yet so to offer cost her not a little. For it was by no means easy to sink
                        her natural pride, and go forth smiling with this son of hers, at once
                        beautiful and hideous in person, for all the world to see. Something of
                        personal heroism is demanded of whoso prescribes heroic remedies, if those
                        remedies are to succeed. At night, alone in the darkness, Katherine,
                        suddenly awaking, would be haunted by perception of the curious glances, and
                        curious comments, which must of necessity attend Richard through all the
                        brilliant pageant of the London season. How would he bear it? And
                        then—self?distrust laying fearful hands upon her—how would she bear it,
                        also? Would her late acquired serenity of soul depart, her faith in the
                        gracious purposes of Almighty God suffer eclipse? Would she fall back into
                        her former condition of black anger and revolt? She prayed not. So long as
                        these evils did not descend upon her, she could bear the rest well enough.
                        For, could she but keep her faith, Katherine was beginning to regard all
                        other suffering which might be in store for her as a negligible quantity.
                        With her healthy body, and wholesome memories of a great and perfect human
                        love, it was almost impossible that she should adopt a morbid and
                        self?torturing attitude. Yet any religious ideal, worth the name, will
                        always have in it an ascetic element. And that element was so far present
                        with her that personal suffering had come to bear a not wholly unlovely
                        aspect. She had ceased to gird against it. So long as Richard was amused and
                        fairly content, so long as the evil which had been abroad in Brockhurst
                        House, that stormy autumn night, could be frustrated, and the estrangement
                        between herself and Richard,—unacknowledged, yet sensibly present,—which
                        that evil had begotten, might be lessened, she cared little what sacrifices
                        she made, what fatigue, exertion, even pain, she might be called on to
                        endure. An enthusiasm of self?surrender animated her.
                    
                    During the last five months, slowly and with stumbling feet, yet very surely,
                        she had carried her life and the burden of it up to a higher plane. And,
                        from that more elevated standpoint, she saw both past events and existing
                        relationships in perspective, according to their just and permanent values.
                        Only one object, one person, refused to range itself, and stood out from the
                        otherwise calm, if pensive, landscape as a threatening danger, a monument of
                        things wicked and fearful. Katherine tried to turn her eyes from that
                        object, for it provoked in her a great hatred, a burning indignation, sadly
                        at variance with the saintly ideals which had so captivated her mind and
                        heart. Katherine remained—always would remain, happily for others—very much
                        a woman. And, as woman and mother, she could not but hate that other woman
                        who had, as she feared, come very near seducing her son.
                    Therefore very various causes combined to reconcile her to the coming
                        adventure. Indeed she set forth on it with so cheerful a countenance, that
                        Richard, while charmed, was also a trifle surprised by the alacrity with
                        which she embraced it. He regarded her somewhat critically, questioning
                        whether his mother was of a more worldly and light?minded disposition than
                        he had heretofore supposed.
                    There had been some talk of Julius March joining the contemplated exodus. But
                        he had declined, smiling rather sadly.
                    “No, no,” he said. “To go would be a mistake and a weakly selfish one on my
                        part. I have long ceased to be a man of cities, and am best employed, and
                        indeed am most at my ease, herding my few sheep here in the wilderness. I am
                        part and parcel of just all that, which we have agreed it is wise you shall
                        leave behind you for a while. My presence would lessen the thoroughness of
                        the change of scene and of thought. You take up a way of life which was
                        familiar to you years ago. The habits of it will soon come back. I have
                        never known them. I should be a hindrance, rather than a help. No, I will
                        wait and keep the lamps burning before the altar, and the fire burning upon
                        the hearth until—and, please God, it may be in peace, crowned with good
                        fortune—you both come back.”
                    But the adventure, fairly embarked on, displayed quite other
                        characteristics—as is the way with such skittish folk—than Katherine had
                        anticipated. Against possibilities of mortification, against possibilities
                        of covert laughter and the pointing fingers of the crowd, she had steeled
                        herself. But it had not occurred to her that both Richard’s trial and her
                        own might take the form of an exuberant and slightly vulgar popularity; and
                        that, far from being shoved aside into the
                        gutter, the young man might be hoisted, with general acclamation, on to the
                        very throne of Vanity Fair.
                    The Brockhurst establishment moved up to town at the beginning of April. And
                        by the end of the month, Sir Richard Calmady, his wealth, his house, his
                        horses, his dinners, his mother’s gracious beauty, and a certain mystery
                        which surrounded him, came to be in everyone’s mouth. A new star had arisen
                        in the social firmament, and all and sundry gathered to observe the reported
                        brightness of its shining. Rich, young, good?looking, well?connected, and
                        strangely unfortunate, here indeed was a novel and telling attraction among
                        the somewhat fly?blown shows of Vanity Fair! Many?tongued rumour was busy
                        with Dickie’s name, his possessions and personality. The legend of the man—a
                        thing often so very other than the man himself—grew, Jonah’s gourd?like, in
                        wild luxuriance. All those many persons who had known Lady Calmady before
                        her retirement from the world, hastened to renew acquaintance with her.
                        While a larger, and it may be added less distinguished, section of society,
                        greedy of intimacy with whoso or whatsoever might represent the fashion of
                        the hour, crowded upon their heels. Invitations showered down thick as
                        snowflakes in January. To get Sir Richard and Lady Calmady was
                        to secure the success of your entertainment, whatever that entertainment
                        might be—to secure it the more certainly because the two persons in question
                        exercised a rather severe process of selection, and were by no means to be
                        had for the asking.
                    All these things Ludovic Quayle noted, in a spirit which he flattered himself
                        was cynical, but which was, in point of fact, rather anxiously affectionate.
                        It had occurred to him that this sudden and unlooked?for popularity might
                        turn Richard’s head a little, and develop in him a morbid self?love, that
                            vanité de monstre not uncommon to
                        persons disgraced by nature. He had feared Richard might begin to plume
                        himself—as is the way of such persons—less upon the charming qualities and
                        gifts which he possessed in common with many other charming persons, than
                        upon those deplorable peculiarities which differentiated him from them. And
                        it was with a sincerity of relief, of which he felt a trifle ashamed, that,
                        as time went on, Mr. Quayle found himself unable to trace any such tendency,
                        that he observed his friend’s wholesome pride and carefulness to avoid all
                        exposure of his deformity. Richard would drive anywhere, and to any
                        festivity, where driving was possible. He would go to the theatre and opera.
                        He would dine at a few houses, and entertain largely at his own house. But he would not put foot to
                        ground in the presence of the many women who courted him, or in that of the
                        many men who treated him with rather embarrassed kindness and civility to
                        his face and spoke of him with pitying reserve behind his back.
                    Other persons, besides Mr. Quayle, watched Richard Calmady’s social successes
                        with interest. Among them was Honoria St. Quentin. That young lady had been
                        spending some weeks with Sir Reginald and Lady Aldham in Midlandshire, and
                        had now accompanied them up to town. Lady Aldham’s health was indifferent,
                        confining her often for days together to the sofa and a darkened room. Her
                        husband, meanwhile, possessed a craving for agreeable feminine society,
                        liable to be gratified in a somewhat errant manner abroad, unless gratified
                        in a discreet manner at home. So Honoria had taken over the duty, for
                        friendship’s sake, of keeping the well?favoured, middle?aged gentleman
                        innocently amused. To Honoria, at this period, no experience came amiss. For
                        the past three years, since the death of her god?mother, Lady Tobermory, and
                        her resultant access of fortune, she had wandered from place to place,
                        seeing life, now in stately English country?houses, now among the overtaxed,
                        under?fed women?workers of Whitechapel and Soho, now in some obscure Italian
                        village among the folds of the purple Apennines. Now she would patronise a
                        middle?class British lodging?house, along with some girl friend richer in
                        talent than in pence, in some seaside town. Now she would fancy the
                        stringent etiquette of a British embassy at foreign court or capital.
                        Honoria was nothing if not various. But, amid all mutations of occupation
                        and of place, her fearlessness, her lazy grace, her serious soul, her
                        gallant bearing, her loyalty to the oppressed, remained the same. “Chaste
                        and fair” as Artemis, experimental as the Comte de St. Simon himself,
                        Honoria roamed the world—fascinating yet never quite fascinated,
                        enthusiastic yet evasive, seeking earnestly to live, yet too self?centred as
                        yet to be able to recognise in what, after all, consists the heart of
                        living.
                    She and Mr. Quayle had met at Aldham Revel during the past winter. She
                        attracted, while slightly confusing, that accomplished young
                        gentleman—confusing his judgment, well understood, since Mr. Quayle himself
                        was incapable of confusion. Her views of men and things struck him as
                        distinctly original. Her attitude of mind appeared unconventional, yet
                        deeply rooted prejudices declared themselves where he would least have
                        anticipated their existence. And so it became a favourite pastime of Mr. Quayle’s to present to her cases of
                        conscience, of conduct, of manners or morals—usually those of a common
                        acquaintance—for discussion, that he might observe her verdict. He imagined
                        this a scientific, psychologic exercise. He desired, so he supposed, to
                        gratify his own superior, masculine intelligence, by noting the aberrations,
                        and arriving at the rationale, of her thought. From which it may be
                        suspected that even Ludovic Quayle had his hours of innocent self?deception.
                        Be that, however, as it may, certain it is that in pursuit of this pastime
                        he one day presented to her the peculiar case of Richard Calmady for
                        discussion, and that, not without momentous, though indirect, result.
                    It happened thus. One noon in May, Ludovic had the happiness of finding
                        himself seated beside Miss St. Quentin in the Park, watching the endless
                        string of passing carriages and the brilliant crowd on foot. Sir Reginald
                        Aldham had left his green chair—placed on the far side of the young
                        lady’s—and leaned on the railings talking to some acquaintance.
                    “A gay maturity,” Ludovic remarked with his air of patronage, indicating the
                        elder gentleman’s shapely back. “The term ‘old boy’ has, alas, declined upon
                        the vernacular and been put to base uses of jocosity, so it is a forbidden
                        one. Else, in the present instance, how applicable, how descriptive a term!
                        Should we, I wonder, give thanks for it, Miss St. Quentin, that the men of
                        my generation will mature according to a quite other pattern?”
                    “Will not ripen, but sour?” Honoria asked maliciously. Her companion’s
                        invincible self?complacency frequently amused her. Then she added:—“But, you
                        know, I’m very fond of him. It isn’t altogether easy to keep straight as a
                        young boy, is it? Depend upon it, it is ten times more difficult to keep
                        straight as an old one. For a man of that temperament it can’t be very plain
                        sailing between fifty and sixty.”
                    Mr. Quayle looked at her in gentle inquiry, his long neck directed forward,
                        his chin slightly raised.
                    “Sailing? The yacht is?”—
                    “The yacht is laid up at Cowes. And you understand perfectly well what I
                        mean,” Honoria replied, somewhat loftily. Her delicate face straightened
                        with an expression of sensitive pride. But her anger was shortlived. She
                        speedily forgave him. The sunshine and fresh air, the radiant green of the
                        young leaves, the rather superb spectacle of wealth, vigour, beauty,
                        presented to her by the brilliant London world in the brilliant summer noon,
                        was exhilarating, tending to lightness of
                        heart. There was poetry of an opulent, resonant sort in the brave show. Just
                        then a company of Life Guards clattered by, in splendour of white and
                        scarlet and shining helmets. The rattle of accoutrements, and thud of the
                        hoofs of their trotting horses, detached itself arrestingly from the
                        surrounding murmur of many voices and ceaseless roar of the traffic at Hyde
                        Park Corner. A light came into Honoria’s eyes. It was good to be alive on
                        such a day! Moreover, in her own purely platonic fashion, she really
                        entertained a very great liking for the young man seated at her side.
                    “You have missed your vocation,” she said, while her eyes narrowed and her
                        upper lip shortened into a delightful smile. “You were born to be a
                        schoolmaster, a veritable pedagogue and terror of illiterate youth. You love
                        to correct. And my rather sketchy English gives you an opportunity of which
                        I observe you are by no means slow to take advantage. You care infinitely
                        more for the manner of saying, than for the thing said. Whereas I”— she
                        broke off abruptly, and her face straightened, became serious, almost
                        severe, again. “Do you see who Sir Reginald is speaking to?” she added.
                        “There are the Calmadys.”
                    A break had come in the loitering procession of correctly clothed men and
                        gaily clothed women, of tall hats and many coloured parasols; and, in the
                        space thus afforded, the Brockhurst mail?phaeton became apparent drawn up
                        against the railings. The horses, a noticeably fine and well?matched pair of
                        browns, were restless, notwithstanding the groom at their heads. Foam
                        whitened the rings of their bits, and falling flakes of it dabbled their
                        chests. Lady Calmady leaned sideways over the leather folds of the hood,
                        answering some inquiry of Sir Reginald, who, hat in hand, looked up at her.
                        She wore a close?fitting, grey, velvet coat, which revealed the proportions
                        of her full, but still youthful figure. The air and sunshine had given her
                        an unusual brightness of complexion, so that in face as well as in figure,
                        youth still, in a sensible measure, claimed her. She turned her head,
                        appealing, as it seemed, to Richard, and the nimble breeze playing
                        caressingly with the soft white laces and grey plumes of her bonnet added
                        thereby somehow to the effect of glad and gracious content pervading her
                        aspect. Richard looked round and down at her, half laughing. Unquestionably
                        he was victoriously handsome, seen thus, uplifted above the throng, handling
                        his fine horses, all trace of bodily disfigurement concealed, a touch of
                        old?world courtliness and tender respect in his manner as he addressed his
                        mother.
                    
                    Ludovic Quayle watched the little scene with close attention. Then, as the
                        ranks of the smart procession closed up again, hiding the carriage and its
                        occupants from sight, he leaned back with a movement of quiet satisfaction
                        and turned to his companion. Miss St. Quentin sat round in her chair,
                        presenting her slender, dust?coloured, lace?and?silk?clad person in profile
                        to the passers?by, and so tilting her parasol as to defy recognition. The
                        expression of her pale face and singular eyes was far from encouraging.
                    “Indeed—and why?” Ludovic permitted himself to remark, in tones of polite
                        inquiry. “I had been led to believe that you and Lady Calmady were on terms
                        of rather warm friendship.” “We are,” Honoria answered, “that is, at
                        Brockhurst.”
                    “Forgive my indiscretion—but why not in London?”
                    The young lady looked full at him.
                    “Mr. Quayle,” she asked, “is it true that you are responsible for this new
                        departure of theirs, for their coming up, I mean?”
                    “Responsible? You do me too great an honour. Who am I that I should direct
                        the action of my brother man? But Lady Calmady is good enough to trust me a
                        little, and I own that I advocated a modification of the existing régime.”—Ludovic crossed his long legs and fell
                        to nursing one knee. “It is no breach of confidence to tell you—since you
                        know the fact already—that fate decreed an alien element should obtrude
                        itself into the situation at Brockhurst last autumn. I need name no names, I
                        think?”
                    Honoria’s head was raised. She regarded him steadfastly, but made no
                        sign.
                    “Ah! I need not name names,” he repeated; “I thought not. Well, after the
                        alien element removed itself—the two facts may have no connection—Lady
                        Calmady very certainly never implied that they had—but, as I remarked, after
                        the alien element removed itself, it was observable that our poor, dear
                        Dickie Calmady became a trifle difficult, a trifle distrait, in plain
                        English most remarkably grumpy and far from delightful to live with. And his
                        mother”—
                    “It’s too bad, altogether too bad!” broke out Honoria hotly.
                    “Too bad of whom?” Mr. Quayle asked, with the utmost suavity. “Of the
                        nameless, obtrusive, alien element, or of poor, dear Dick?”
                    The young lady closed her parasol slowly, and, turning, faced the sauntering
                        crowd again.
                    “Of Sir Richard Calmady, of course,” she said.
                    Her companion did not answer immediately. His eyes pursued a receding carriage far down the string,
                        amid the gaily shifting sunshine and shadow, and the fluttering lace and
                        grey feathers of a woman’s bonnet. When he spoke, at last, it was with an
                        unusual trace of feeling.
                    “After all, you know, there are a good many excuses for Richard Calmady.”
                    “If it comes to that there are a good many excuses for Helen de Vallorbes,”
                        Honoria put in quickly.
                    “For? For?” the young man repeated, relaxing into the blandest of smiles.
                        “Yes, thanks—I see I was right. It was unnecessary to name names.—Oh!
                        undoubtedly, innumerable excuses, and of the most valid description, were
                        they needed—were they not swallowed up in the single, self?evident excuse
                        that the lady you mention is a supremely clever and captivating person.”
                    “You think so?” said Honoria.
                    “Think so? Show me the man so indifferent to his reputation for taste that he
                        could venture to think otherwise!”
                    “Still she should have left him alone.”—Honoria’s indolent, reflective speech
                        took on a peculiar intonation, and she pressed her long?fingered hands
                        together, as though controlling a shudder. “I—I’m ashamed to confess it, I
                        do not like him. But, as I told you, just on that account”—
                    “Pardon me, on what account?”
                    Miss St. Quentin was quick to resent impertinence, and now momentarily anger
                        struggled with her natural sincerity. But the latter conquered. Again she
                        forgave Mr. Quayle. Yet a dull flush spread itself over her pale skin, and
                        he perceived that she was distinctly moved. This piqued his curiosity.
                    “I know I’m awfully foolish about some things,” she said. “I can’t bear to
                        speak of them. I dread seeing them. The sight of them takes the warmth out
                        of the sunshine.”
                    Again Ludovic fell to nursing his knee.—What an amazing invention is the
                        feminine mind! What endless entertainment is derivable from striving to
                        follow its tergiversations!
                    “And you saw that which takes the warmth out of the sunshine just now?” he
                        said. “Ah! well—alas, for Dickie Calmady!”
                    “Still I can’t bear anyone not to play fair. You should only—hit a man your
                        own size. I told Helen de Vallorbes so. I’m very, very fond of her, but she
                        ought to have spared him.”—She paused a moment. “All the same if I had not
                        promised Lady Aldham to stay on—as she’s so poorly—I should have gone out of
                        town when I found the Calmadys had come up.”
                    
                    “Oh! it goes as far as that, does it?” Ludovic murmured.
                    “I don’t like to see them with all these people. The extent to which he is
                        petted and fooled becomes rather horrible.”
                    “Are you not slightly—I ask it with all due deference and humility—just
                        slightly merciless?”
                    “No, no,” the girl answered earnestly. “I don’t think I’m that. The women who
                        run after him, and flatter him so outrageously, are really more merciless
                        than I am. I do not pretend to like him—I can’t like him, somehow. But I’m
                        growing most tremendously sorry for him. And still more sorry for his
                        mother. She was very grand—a person altogether satisfying to one’s
                        imagination and sense of fitness, at home, with that noble house and park
                        and racing?stable for setting. But here, she is shorn of her glory
                        somehow.”
                    The girl rose to her feet with lazy grace.
                    “She is cheapened. And that’s a pity. There are more than enough pretty cheap
                        people among us already.—I must go. There’s Sir Reginald looking for me.—If
                        I could be sure Lady Calmady hated it all I should be more reconciled.”
                    “Possibly she does hate it all, only that it presents itself as the least of
                        two evils.”
                    “There is a touch of dancing dogs about it, and that distresses me,” Miss St.
                        Quentin continued. “It is Lady Calmady’s rôle to be apart, separate from and superior to the
                        rest.”
                    “The thing’s being done as well as it can be,” Mr. Quayle put in mildly.
                    “It shouldn’t be done at all,” the girl declared.—“Here I am, Sir Reginald.
                        You want to go on? I’m quite ready.”
                
                
                    CHAPTER III
                    IN WHICH KATHERINE TRIES TO NAIL UP THE WEATHER?GLASS TO “SET
                        FAIR”
                    IT is to be feared that intimate acquaintance with Lady Calmady’s
                        present attitude of mind would not have proved altogether satisfactory to
                        that ardent idealist Honoria St. Quentin. For, unquestionably, as the busy
                        weeks of the London season went forward, Katherine grew increasingly far
                        from “hating it all.” At first she had found the varied interests and
                        persons presented to her, the rapid interchange of thought, the constant
                        movement of society, slightly bewildering. But, as Julius March had foretold, old habits reasserted themselves.
                        The great world, and the ways of it, had been familiar to her in her youth.
                        She soon found herself walking in its ways again with ease, and speaking its
                        language with fluency. And this, though in itself of but small moment to
                        her, procured her, indirectly, a happiness as greatly desired as it had been
                        little anticipated.
                    For to Richard the great world was, as yet, something of an undiscovered
                        country. Going forth into it he felt shy and diffident, though a lively
                        curiosity possessed him. The gentler and more modest elements of his nature
                        came into play. He was sensible of his own inexperience, and turned with
                        instinctive trust and tender respect to her in whom experience was not
                        lacking. He had never, so he told himself, quite understood how fine a lady
                        his mother was, how conspicuous was her charm and distinguished her
                        intelligence. And he clung to her, grown man though he was, even as a child,
                        entering a bright room full of guests, clings to its mother’s hand, finding
                        therein much comfort of encouragement and support. He desired she should
                        share all his interests, reckoning nothing worth the doing in which she had
                        not a part. He consulted her before each undertaking, talked and laughed
                        over it with her in private afterwards, thereby unconsciously securing to
                        her halcyon days, a honeymoon of the heart of infinite sweetness, so that
                        she, on her part, thanked God and took courage.
                    And, indeed, it might very well appear to Katherine that her heroic remedy
                        was on the road to work an effectual cure. The terror of lawless passion and
                        of evil, provoked by that fair woman clothed as with the sea?waves, crowned
                        and shod with gold, whom she had withstood so manfully in spirit in the wild
                        autumn night, departed from her. She began to fear no more. For surely her
                        son was wholly given back to her—his heart still free, his life still
                        innocent? And, not only did this terror depart, but her anguish at his
                        deformity was strangely lessened, the pain of it lulled as by the action of
                        an anodyne. For, witnessing the young man’s popularity, seeing him so
                        universally courted and welcomed, observing his manifest power of
                        attraction, she began to ask herself whether she had not exaggerated the
                        misfortune of that same deformity and the impediment that it offered to his
                        career and chances of personal happiness. She had been morbid,
                        hypersensitive. The world evidently saw in his disfigurement no such horror
                        and hopeless bar to success as she had seen. It was therefore a dear world,
                        a world rich in consolation and promise. It smiled upon Richard, and so she
                        smiled upon it, gratefully, trustfully, finding in the plenitude of her thankfulness no wares save honest
                        ones set out for sale in the booths of Vanity Fair. A large hopefulness
                        arose in her. She began to form projects calculated, as she believed, to
                        perpetuate the gladness of the present.
                    Among other tender customs of Richard’s boyhood into which Katherine, at this
                        happy period, drifted back was that of going, now and again, to his room at
                        night, and gossiping with him, for a merry yet somewhat pathetic half?hour,
                        before herself retiring to rest. It fell out that, towards the middle of
                        June, there had been a dinner?party at the Barkings, on a scale of
                        magnificence unusual even in that opulent house. It was not the second, or
                        even the third, time Richard and his mother had dined in Albert Gate. For
                        Lady Louisa had proved the most assiduously attentive of neighbours. Little
                        Lady Constance Quayle was with her. The young girl had brightened notably of
                        late. Her prettiness was enhanced by a timid and appealing playfulness. She
                        had been seized, moreover, with one of those innocent and absorbing
                        devotions towards Lady Calmady that young girls often entertain towards an
                        elder woman, following her about with a sort of dog?like fidelity, and
                        watching her with eyes full of wistful admiration. On the present occasion
                        the guests at the Barking dinner had been politicians of distinction—members
                        of the then existing Government. A contingent of foreign diplomatists from
                        the various embassies had been present, together with various notably smart
                        women. Later there had been a reception, largely attended, and music, the
                        finest that Europe could produce and money could buy.
                    “Louisa climbs giddy heights,” Mr. Quayle had said to himself, with an
                        attempt at irony. But, in point of fact, he was far from displeased, for it
                        appeared to him the house of Barking showed to uncommon advantage
                        to?night.—“Louisa has no staying power in conversation, and her voice is too
                        loud, but in snippets she is rather impressive,” he added. “And, oh! how
                        very diligent is Louisa!”
                    Driving home, Richard kept silence until just as the brougham drew up, then
                        he said abruptly:—
                    “Tired? No—that’s right. Then come and sit with me. I want to talk. I haven’t
                        an ounce of sleep in me somehow to?night.”
                    It was hot, and when, some three?quarters of an hour later, Katherine entered
                        the big bedroom on the ground floor the upper sashes of the window were
                        drawn low behind the blinds, letting in the muffled roar of the great city
                        as an undertone to the intermittent sound of footsteps, or the occasional
                        passing of a belated carriage or cab. It
                        formed an undertone, also, to Richard’s memory of the music to which he had
                        lately listened, and the delight of which was still in his ears and pulsing
                        in his blood, making his blue eyes bright and dark and curving his handsome
                        lips into a very eloquent smile as he lay back against the piled?up pillows
                        of the bed.
                    “Good heavens, how divinely Morabita sang,” he said, looking up at his mother
                        as she stood looking down on him, “better even than in Faust
                        last night! I want to hear her again just as often as I can. Her voice
                        carries one right away, out of oneself, into regions of pure and unmitigated
                        romance. All things are possible for the moment. One becomes as the gods,
                        omnipotent. We’ve got the box as usual on Saturday, mother, haven’t we? Do
                        you remember if she sings?”
                    Katherine replied that the great soprano did sing.
                    “I’m glad,” Richard said. “And yet I don’t know that it’s particularly
                        wholesome to hear her. After being as the gods, one descends with rather too
                        much of a run to the level of the ordinary mortal.”—He turned on his elbow
                        restlessly, and the movement altered the lie of the bedclothes, thereby
                        disclosing the unsightly disproportion of his person through the light
                        blanket and sheet.—“And if one’s own level happens unfortunately to be below
                        that of even the ordinary mortal—well—well—don’t you know”—
                    “My dear!” Katherine put in softly.
                    Richard lay straight on his back again, and held out his hand to her.
                    “Sit down, do,” he said. “Turn the big chair round so that I may see you. I
                        like you in that frilly, white, dressing?gown thing. Don’t be afraid, I’m
                        not going to be a brute and grumble. You’re much too good to me, and I know
                        I am disgustingly selfish at times. I was this winter, but”—
                    “The past is past,” Katherine put in again very softly.
                    “Yes, please God, it is,” he said,—“in some ways.”—He paused, and then spoke
                        as though with an effort, returning from some far distance of thought:—“Yes,
                        I like you in that white, frilly thing. But I liked that new, black gown of
                        yours to?night too. You looked glorious, do you mind my saying so? And no
                        woman walks as well as you do. I compared, I watched. There’s nothing more
                        beautiful than seeing a woman walk really well—or a man either, for that
                        matter.”
                    Then he caught at her hand again, laughing a little.—“No, I’m not going to
                        grumble,” he said. “Upon my word, mother, I swear I’m not. Here let’s talk
                        about your gowns. I should like to know,
                        shall you never wear anything but grey or black?”
                    “Never, not even to please you, Dickie.”
                    “Ah, that’s so delicious with you!” he exclaimed. “Every now and then you
                        bring one up short, one knocks one’s head against a stone wall! There is an
                        indomitable strain in you. I only hope you’ve transmitted it to me. I’m
                        afraid I need stiffening.—I beg your pardon,” he added quickly and
                        courteously, “it strikes me I am becoming slightly impertinent. But that
                        woman’s voice has turned my brain and loosed the string of my tongue so that
                        I speak words of unwisdom. You enjoyed her singing too, though, didn’t you?
                        I thought so, catching sight of you while it was going on, attended by the
                        faithful Ludovic and little Lady Constance. It’s quite touching to see how
                        she worships you. And wasn’t Miss St. Quentin with you too? Yes, I thought
                        so. I can’t quite make up my mind about Honoria St. Quentin. Sometimes she
                        strikes me as one of the loveliest women here—and she can walk, if you like,
                        it’s a joy to see her. And then again, she seems to me altogether too long,
                        and off?hand somehow, and boyish! And then, too,”—Richard moved his head
                        against the white pillows, and stared up at the window, where the blind
                        sucked, with small creaking noises, against the top edge of the open
                        sash,—“she fights shy of me, and personal feeling militates against
                        admiration, you know. I am sorry, for I rather want to talk to her about—oh,
                        well, a whole lot of things. But she avoids me. I never get the
                        opportunity.”
                    “My darling, don’t you think that is partly imagination?”
                    “Perhaps it is,” he answered. “I daresay I do indulge in unnecessary fancies
                        about people’s manner and so on. I can’t very well be off it, you know. And
                        everyone is really very kind to me. Morabita was perfectly charming when I
                        thanked her in very floundering Italian. It’s a pity she’s so fat. But,
                        never mind, the fat vanishes, to all intents and purposes, when she begins
                        to sing.—And old Barking is as kind as he can be. I feel awfully obliged to
                        him, though his ministrations to?night amounted to being slightly
                        embarrassing. He brought me cabinet ministers and under?secretaries, and
                        gorgeous Germans and Turks, in batches—and even a real live Chinaman with a
                        pig?tail. Mother, do you remember the cabinets at home in the Long Gallery?
                        I used to dream about them. And that Chinaman gave me the queerest feeling
                        to?night. It was idiotic, but—did I ever tell you?—when I was a little chap,
                        I was always dreaming about war or something, from which I couldn’t get away. Others could, but for
                        me—from circumstances, don’t you know—there was no possibility of scuttling.
                        And the little Chinese figures on the black, lacquer cabinets were mixed up
                        with it. As I say, it gripped me tonight in the midst of all those people
                        and—Oh yes! old Barking is very kind,” he went on, with a change of tone.
                        “Only I wish Lady Louisa would warn him he need not trouble himself to be
                        amusing. He came and sat by me, towards the end of the evening, and told me
                        the most inane stories in that inflated manner of his. Verily, they were
                        ancient as the hills, and a weariness to the spirit. But that good?looking,
                        young fellow, Decies, swallowed them all down with the devoutest attention
                        and laughed aloud in all that he conceived to be the right places.”
                    A pause came in Richard’s flow of words. He moved again restlessly and
                        clasped his hands under his head. Katherine had seldom seen him thus excited
                        and feverish. A sense of alarm grew on her lest her heroic remedy was, after
                        all, not working a wholly satisfactory cure. For there was a violence in his
                        utterance and in his face, a certain recklessness of speech and of
                        demeanour, very agitating to her.
                    “Oh, everyone’s kind, awfully kind,” he repeated, looking away at the sucking
                        blind again, “and I’m awfully grateful to them, but—Oh! I tell you, that
                        woman’s voice has got me and made me drunk, made me mad drunk. I almost wish
                        I had never heard her. I think I won’t go to the opera again. Emotion that
                        finds no outlet in action only demoralises one and breaks up one’s
                        philosophy, and she makes me know all that might be, and is not, and never,
                        never can be. Good God! what a glorious, what an amazing, business I could
                        have made of life if”—He slipped a little on the pillows, had to unclasp his
                        hands hastily and press them down on either side him to keep his body fairly
                        upright in the bed. His features contracted with a spasm of anger.—“If I had
                        only had the average chance,” he added harshly. “If I had only started with
                        the normal equipment.”
                    And, as she listened, the old anguish, lately lulled to rest in Katherine’s
                        heart, arose and cried aloud. But she sought resolutely to stifle its
                        crying, strong in faith and hope.
                    “I know, my dearest, I know,” she said pleadingly. “And yet, since we have
                        been here, I have thought perhaps we had a little underrated both your happy
                        gift of pleasing and the readiness of others to be pleased. It seems to me,
                        Dickie, all doors open if you stretch out your hand. Well, my dear, I would
                        have you go forward fearlessly. I would have you more ambitious, more self?confident. I see and deplore
                        my own cowardly mistake. Instead of hiding you away at home, and keeping you
                        to myself, I ought to have encouraged you to mix in the world and fill the
                        position to which both your powers and your birth entitle you. I was wrong—I
                        lament my folly. But there is ample time in which to rectify my
                        mistake.”
                    Richard’s face relaxed.
                    “I wonder—I wonder,” he said.
                    “I am sure,” she replied.
                    “You are too sanguine,” he said. “Your love for me blinds you to fact.”
                    “No, no,” she replied again. “Love is the only medium in which vision gains
                        perfect clearness, becomes trustworthy and undistorted,”—Instinctively
                        Katherine folded her hands as in prayer, while the brightness of a pure
                        enthusiasm shone in her sweet eyes. “That I have learned beyond all
                        possibility of dispute. It has been given me, through much tribulation, to
                        arrive at that.”
                    Richard smiled upon her tenderly, then, turning his head, remained silent for
                        a while. The sullen roar of the great city invaded the quiet room through
                        the open windows, the heavy regular tread of a policeman on his beat, a
                        shrill whistle hailing a hansom from a house some few doors distant up the
                        square, and then an answering rumble of wheels and clatter of hoofs.
                        Richard’s face had grown fierce again, and his breath came quick. He turned
                        on his side, and once more the dwarfed proportions of his person became
                        perceptible. Lady Calmady averted her eyes, fixing them upon his. But even
                        there she found sad lack of comfort, for in them she read the inalienable
                        distress and desolation of one unhandsomely treated by Nature, maimed and
                        incomplete. Even the Divine Light, resident within her, failed to reconcile
                        her to that reading. She shrank back in protest, once again, against the
                        dealing of Almighty God with this only child of hers. And yet—such is the
                        adorable paradox of a living faith—even while shrinking, while protesting,
                        she flung herself for support, for help, upon the very Being who had
                        permitted, in a sense caused, her misery.
                    “Mother, can I say something to you?” Richard asked, rather hoarsely, at
                        last.
                    “Anything—in heaven or earth.”
                    “But it is a thing not usually spoken of as I want to speak of it. It may
                        seem indecent. You won’t be disgusted, or think me wanting in respect or in
                        modesty?”
                    “Surely not,” Lady Calmady answered quietly, yet a certain trembling took her, a nervousness as in face of
                        the unknown. This strong, young creature developed forces, presented
                        aspects, in his present feverish mood, with which she felt hardly equal to
                        cope.
                    “Mother, I—I want to marry.”
                    “I, too, have thought of that,” she said.
                    “You don’t consider that I am debarred from marriage?”
                    “Oh no, no!” Katherine cried, a little sob in her voice.
                    He looked at her steadily, with those profoundly desolate eyes.
                    “It would not be wrong? It would not be otherwise than honourable?” he
                        asked.
                    If doubts arose within Katherine of the answer to that question, she crushed
                        them down passionately.
                    “No, my dearest, no,” she declared. “It would not be wrong—it could not,
                        could not be so—if she loved you, and you loved whomsoever you married.” 
                    “But I’m not in love—at least not in love with any person who can become my
                        wife. Yet that does not seem to me to matter very much. I should be
                        faithful, no fear, to anyone who was good enough to marry me. Enough of love
                        would come, if only out of gratitude, towards the woman who would accept me
                        as—as I am—and forgive that—that which cannot be helped.”
                    Again trembling shook Katherine. So terribly much seemed to her at stake just
                        then! Silently she implored that wisdom and clear?seeing might be accorded
                        her. She leaned a little forward and taking his left hand held it closely in
                        both hers.
                    “Dearest, that is not all. Tell me all,” she said, “or I cannot quite follow
                        your thought.”
                    Richard flung his body sideways across the bed, and kissed her hands as they
                        held his. The hot colour rushed over his face and neck, up to the roots of
                        his close?cropped, curly hair. He spoke, lying thus upon his chest, his face
                        half buried in the sheet.
                    “I want to marry because—because I want a child—I want a son,” he said.
                    No words came to Katherine just then. But she disengaged one hand and laid it
                        upon the dear brown head, and waited in silence until the violence of the
                        young man’s emotion had spent itself, until the broad, muscular shoulders
                        had ceased to heave and the strong, young hands to grasp her wrist. Suddenly
                        Richard recovered himself, sat up, rubbing his hands across his eyes,
                        laughing, but with a queer catch in his voice.
                    “I beg your pardon,” he said. “I’m a fool, an awful fool. Hang Morabita and her voice and the golden houses
                        of the gods, and beastly, showy omnipotence, to which her voice carries one
                        away! To talk sense—mother—just brutal common sense. My fate is fixed, you
                        know. There’s no earthly use in wriggling. I am condemned to live a cow’s
                        life and die a cow’s death.—The pride of life may call, but I can’t answer.
                        The great prizes are not for me. I’m too heavily handicapped. I was looking
                        at that young fellow, Decies, to?night, and considering his chances as
                        against my own—Oh! I know there’s wealth in plenty. The pasture’s green
                        enough to make many a man covet it, and the stall’s well bedded?down. I
                        don’t complain. Only, mother, you know—I know. Where’s the use of denying
                        that which we neither of us ever really forget?—And then sometimes my blood
                        takes fire. It did to?night. And the splendour of living being denied me,
                        I—I—am tempted to say a Black Mass. One must take it out somehow. And I know
                        I could go to the devil as few men have ever gone, magnificently,
                        detestably, with subtleties and refinements of iniquity.”
                    He laughed again a little. And, hearing him, his mother’s heart stood
                        still.
                    “Verily, I have advantages!” he continued. “There should be a picturesqueness
                        in my descent to hell which would go far to place my name at the head of the
                        list of those sinners who have achieved immortality”—
                    “Richard! Richard!” Lady Calmady cried, “do you want to break my heart
                        quite?”
                    “No,” he answered, simply. “I’d infinitely rather not break your heart. I
                        have no ambition to see my name in that devil’s list except as an uncommonly
                        ironical sort of second best. But then we must make some change, some
                        radical change. At times, lately, I’ve felt as if I was a caged wild
                        beast—blinded, its claws cut, the bars of its cage soldered and riveted, no
                        hope of escape, and yet the vigour, the immense longing for freedom and
                        activity, there all the while.”
                    Richard stretched himself.
                    “Poor beast, poor beast, poor beast!” he said, shaking his head and smiling.
                        “I tell you I get absurdly sentimental over it at times.”
                    And then, happily, there came a momentary lapse in the entirety of his
                        egoism. He turned on his side, took Lady Calmady’s hand again, and fell to
                        playing absently with her bracelets.
                    “You poor darling, how I torture you!” he said. “And yet, now we’ve once
                        broken the ice and begun talking of all this, we’re bound to talk on to the finish—if finish there
                        is. You see these few weeks in London—I’ve enjoyed them—but still they’ve
                        made me understand, more than ever, all I’ve missed. Life calls, mother, do
                        you see? And though the beast is blind, and his claws are cut, and his cage
                        bolted, yet, when life calls, he must answer—must—or run mad—or die—do you
                        see?”
                    “And you shall answer, my beloved. Never fear, you will answer,” Katherine
                        replied proudly.
                    Richard’s hand closed hard upon hers.
                    “Thank you,” he said. “You were made to be a mother of heroes, not of a
                        useless log like me.—And that’s just why I want to be good. And to be good I
                        want a wife, that I may have that boy. I could keep straight for him,
                        mother, though I’m afraid I can’t keep straight for myself, and simply
                        because it’s right, much longer. I want him to have just all that I am
                        denied. I want him to restore the balance, both for you and for me. I may
                        have something of a career myself, perhaps, in politics or something. It’s
                        possible; but that will come later, if it comes at all. And then it would be
                        for his sake. What I want first is the boy, to give me an object and keep up
                        my pluck, and keep me steady. I, giving him life, shall find my life in him,
                        be paid for my wretched circumscribed existence by his goodly and complete
                        one. He may be clever or not—I’d rather, of course, he was not quite a
                        dunce—but I really don’t very much mind, so long as he isn’t an outrageous
                        fool, if he’s only an entirely sound and healthy human animal.”
                    Richard stretched himself upon the bed, straightened the sheet across his
                        chest, and clasped his hands under his head again. The desolation had gone
                        out of his eyes. He seemed to look afar into the future, and therein see
                        manly satisfaction and content. His voice was vibrant, rising to a kind of
                        chant.
                    “He shall run, and he shall swim, he shall fence, and he shall row,” he said.
                        “He shall learn all gallant sports, as becomes an English gentleman. And he
                        shall ride,—not as I ride, God forbid! like a monkey strapped on a dog at a
                        fair, but as a centaur, as a young demi?god. We will set him, stark naked,
                        on a bare?backed horse, and see that he’s clean?limbed, perfect, without
                        spot or blemish, from head to heel.”
                    And once more Katherine Calmady held her peace, somewhat amazed, somewhat
                        tremulous, since it seemed to her the young man was drawing a cheque upon
                        the future which might, only too probably, be dishonoured and returned
                        marked “no account.” For who dare say that this child would ever come to the
                        birth, or, coming, what form it would bear? Yet, even so, she rejoiced in her son and the high spirit he
                        displayed, while the instinct of romance which inspired his speech touched
                        an answering chord in, and uplifted, her.
                    By now the brief June night was nearly spent. The blind still creaked against
                        the open window sash, but the thud of horse?hoofs and beat of passing
                        footsteps had become infrequent, while the roar of the mighty city had
                        dwindled to a murmur, as of an ebbing tide upon a shallow, sand?strewn
                        beach. The after?light of the sunset, walking the horizon, beneath the Pole
                        star from west to east, broadened upward now towards the zenith. Even here,
                        in the heart of London, the day broke with a spacious solemnity. Richard
                        raised himself, and, sitting up, blew out the candles placed on the table at
                        the bedside.
                    “Mother,” he said, “will you let in the morning?”
                    Lady Calmady was pale from her long vigil, and her unspoken, yet searching,
                        emotion. She appeared very tall, ghostlike even, in her soft, white raiment,
                        as she moved across and drew up the sucking blind. Above the grey parapets
                        of the houses, and the ranks of contorted chimney?pots, the loveliness of
                        the summer dawn grew wide. Warm amber shaded through gradations of exquisite
                        and nameless colour into blue. While, across this last, lay horizontal lines
                        of fringed, semi?transparent, opalescent cloud. To Katherine those heavenly
                        blue interspaces spoke of peace, of the stilling of all strife, when the
                        tragic, yet superb, human story should at last be fully told and God be all
                        in all. She was very tired. The struggle was so prolonged. Her soul cried
                        out for rest. And then she reminded herself, almost sternly, that the
                        Kingdom of God and the peace of it is no matter of time or of place; but is
                        within the devout believer, ever present, immediate, possessing his or her
                        soul, and by that soul in turn possessed. Just then the sparrows, roosting
                        in the garden of the square, awoke with manifold and vociferous chirping and
                        chattering. The voice from the bed called to her.
                    “Mother,” it said imperatively, “come to me. You are not angry at what I have
                        told you? You understand? You will find her for me?”
                    Lady Calmady turned away from the open window and the loveliness of the
                        summer dawn. She was less tired somehow. God was with her, so she could not
                        be otherwise than hopeful. Moreover, the world had proved itself very kind
                        towards her son. It would not deny him this last request, surely?
                    “My dearest, I think I have found her already,” Lady Calmady answered.
                    
                    Yet, even as she spoke, she faltered a little, recognising the energy and
                        strength manifest in the young man’s countenance, remembering his late
                        discourse, and the pent?up fires of his nature to which that discourse had
                        borne only too eloquent testimony. For who was a young girl, but just out of
                        the school?room, a girl in pretty, fresh frocks—the last word of
                        contemporary fashion,—whose baby face and slow, wide?eyed gaze bore witness
                        to her entire innocence of the great primitive necessities, the rather
                        brutal joys, the intimate vices, the far?ranging intellectual questionings,
                        which rule and mould the action of mankind,—who was she, indeed, to cope
                        with a nature such as Richard’s?
                    “Mother, tell me, who is it?”
                    And instinctively Katherine fell to pleading. She sat down beside the bed
                        again and smoothed the sheet.
                    “You will be tender and loving to her, Dickie?” she said. “For she is young
                        and very gentle, and might easily be made afraid. You will not forget what
                        is due to your wife, to your bride, in your longing for a child?”
                    “Who is it?” Richard demanded again.
                    “Ludovic’s sister—little Lady Constance Quayle.”
                    He drew in his breath sharply.
                    “Would she—would her people consent?” he said.
                    “I think so. Judging by appearances, I am almost sure they would
                        consent.”
                    A long silence followed. Richard lay still, looking at the rosy flush that
                        broadened in the morning sky and touched the bosoms of those delicate clouds
                        with living, pulsating colour. And he flushed too, all his being softened
                        into a great tenderness, a great shyness, a quick yet noble shame. For his
                        whole attitude towards this question of marriage changed strangely as it
                        passed from the abstract, from regions of vague purpose and desire, to the
                        concrete, to the thought of a maiden with name and local habitation, a
                        maiden actual and accessible, whose image he could recall, whose pretty
                        looks and guileless speech he knew.
                    “I almost wish she was not Ludovic’s sister, though,” he remarked presently.
                        “It is a great deal to ask.”
                    “You have a great deal to offer,” Katherine said, adding:—“You can care for
                        her, Dickie?”
                    He turned his head, his lips working a little, his flushed face very young
                        and bright.
                    “Oh yes! I can care fast enough,” he said. “And I think—I think I could make
                        her happy. And, you see, already she worships you. We would pet her, mother,
                        and give her all manner of pretty things,
                        and make a little queen of her—and she would be pleased—she’s a child, such
                        a child.”
                    Richard remained awake far into the morning, till the rose had died out of
                        the sky, and the ascending smoke of many kitchen?chimneys began to stain the
                        expanse of heavenly blue. The thought of his possible bride was very sweet
                        to him. But when at last sleep came, dreams came likewise. Helen de
                        Vallorbes’ perfect face arose, in reproach, before him, and her azure and
                        purple draperies swept over him, stifling and choking him as the salt waves
                        of an angry sea. Then someone—it was the comely, long?limbed, young soldier,
                        Mr. Decies—whom he had seen last night at the Barkings’ great party when
                        Morabita sang—and the soprano’s matchless voice was mixed up, in the
                        strangest fashion, with all these transactions—lifted Helen and all her
                        magic sea?waves from off him, setting him free. But, even as he did so,
                        Dickie perceived that it was not Helen, after all, whom the young soldier
                        carried in his arms, but little Lady Constance Quayle. Whereupon, waking
                        with a start, Dickie conceived a wholly unreasoning detestation of Mr.
                        Decies; while, along with that, his purpose of marrying Lady Constance
                        increased notably, waxed strong and grew, putting forth all manner of fair
                        flowers of promise and of hope.
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV
                    A LESSON UPON THE ELEVENTH COMMANDMENT—“PARENTS OBEY YOUR
                        CHILDREN”
                    A FAMILY council was in course of holding in the lofty
                        white?and?gold boudoir, overlooking the Park, in Albert Gate. Lady Louisa
                        Barking had summoned it. She had also exercised a measure of selection among
                        intending members. For instance Lady Margaret and Lady Emily—the former
                        having a disposition, in the opinion of her elder sister, to put herself
                        forward and support the good cause with more zeal than discretion, the
                        latter being but a weak?kneed supporter of the cause at best—were summarily
                        dismissed.
                    “It was really perfectly unnecessary to discuss this sort of thing before the
                        younger girls,” she said. “It put them out of their place and rather rubbed
                        the freshness off their minds. And then they would chatter among themselves.
                        And it all became a little foolish and missy. They never knew when to
                        stop.”
                    
                    One member of the Quayle family, and that a leading one, had taken his
                        dismissal before it was given and, with a nice mixture of defective
                        moral?courage and good common?sense, had removed himself bodily from the
                        neighbourhood of the scene of action. Lord Shotover was still in London.
                        Along with the payment of his debts had come a remarkable increase of
                        cheerfulness. He made no more allusions to the unpleasant subject of cutting
                        his throat, while the proposed foreign tour had been relegated to a vague
                        future. It seemed a pity not to see the season out. It would be little short
                        of a crime to miss Goodwood. He might go out with Decies to India in the
                        autumn, when that young soldier’s leave had expired, and look Guy up a bit.
                        He would rather like a turn at pig?sticking—and there were plenty of pig, he
                        understood, in the neighbourhood of Agra, where his brother was now
                        stationed. On the morning in question, Lord Shotover, in excellent spirits,
                        had walked down Piccadilly with his father, from his rooms in Jermyn Street
                        to Albert Gate. The elder gentleman, arriving from Westchurch by an early
                        train, had solaced himself with a share of the by no means ascetic breakfast
                        of which his eldest son was partaking at a little after half?past ten. It
                        was very much too good a breakfast for a person in Lord Shotover’s existing
                        financial position—so indeed were the rooms—so, in respect of locality, was
                        Jermyn Street itself. Lord Fallowfeild knew this, no man better. Yet he was
                        genuinely pleased, impressed even, by the luxury with which his erring son
                        was surrounded, and proceeded to praise his cook, praise his valet’s waiting
                        at table, praise some fine, old, sporting prints upon the wall. He went so
                        far, indeed, as to chuckle discreetly—immaculately faithful husband though
                        he was—over certain photographs of ladies, more fair and kind than wise,
                        which were stuck in the frame of the looking?glass over the chimney?piece.
                        In return for which acts of good?fellowship Lord Shotover accompanied him as
                        far as the steps of the mansion in Albert Gate. There he paused, remarking
                        with the most disarming frankness:—
                    “I would come in. I want to awfully, I assure you. I quite agree with you
                        about all this affair, you know, and I should uncommonly like to let the
                        others know it. But, between ourselves, Louisa’s been so short with me
                        lately, so infernally short—if you’ll pardon my saying so—that it’s become
                        downright disagreeable to me to run across her. So I’m afraid I might only
                        make matters worse all round, don’t you know, if I put in an appearance this
                        morning.”
                    “Has she, though?” ejaculated Lord Fallowfeild, in reference presumably to his eldest daughter’s reported
                        shortness. “My dear boy, don’t think of it. I wouldn’t have you exposed to
                        unnecessary unpleasantness on any account.”
                    Then, as he followed the groom?of?the?chambers up the bare, white, marble
                        staircase—which struck almost vault?like in its chill and silence, after the
                        heat and glare and turmoil of the great thoroughfare without—he added to
                        himself:—
                    “Good fellow, Shotover. Has his faults, but upon my word, when you come to
                        think of it, so have all of us. Very good?hearted, sensible fellow at
                        bottom, Shotover. Always responds when you talk rationally to him. No
                        nonsense about him.”—His lordship sighed as he climbed the marble stair.
                        “Great comfort to me at times Shotover. Shows very proper feeling on the
                        present occasion, but naturally feels a diffidence about expressing it.”
                    Thus, in the end, it happened that the family council consisted only of the
                        lady of the house, her sister Lady Alicia Winterbotham, Mr. Ludovic Quayle,
                        and the parent whom all three of them were, each in their several ways, so
                        perfectly willing to instruct in his duty towards his children.
                    Ludovic, perhaps, displayed less alacrity than usual in offering good advice
                        to his father. His policy was rather that of masterly inactivity. Indeed, as
                        the discussion waxed hot—his sisters’ voices rising slightly in tone, while
                        Lord Fallowfeild’s replies disclosed a vein of dogged obstinacy—he withdrew
                        from the field of battle and moved slowly round the room staring
                        abstractedly at the pictures. There was a seductive, female head by Greuze,
                        a couple of reposeful landscapes by Morland, a little Constable—waterways,
                        trees, and distant woodland, swept by wind and weather. But upon these the
                        young man bestowed scant attention. That which fascinated his gaze was a
                        series of half?length portraits, in oval frames, representing his parents,
                        himself, his sisters, and brothers. These portraits were the work of a lady
                        whose artistic gifts, and whose prices, were alike modest. They were in
                        coloured chalks, and had, after adorning her own sitting?room for a number
                        of years, been given, as a wedding present, by Lady Fallowfeild to her
                        eldest daughter. Mr. Quayle reviewed them leisurely now, looking over his
                        shoulder now and again to note how the tide of battle rolled, and raising
                        his eyebrows in mute protest when the voices of the two ladies became more
                        than usually elevated.
                    “You see, papa, you have not been here”—Lady Louisa was saying.
                    “No, I haven’t,” interrupted Lord Fallowfeild. “And very much I regret that I haven’t. Should have done my
                        best to put a stop to this engagement at the outset—before there was any
                        engagement at all, in fact.”
                    “And so you cannot possibly know how the whole thing—any breaking off I
                        mean—would be regarded.”
                    “Can’t I, though?” said Lord Fallowfeild. “I know perfectly well how I should
                        regard it myself.”
                    “You do not take the advantages sufficiently into consideration, papa. Of
                        course with their enormous wealth they can afford to do anything.”—Mr.
                        Winterbotham’s income was far from princely at this period, and Lady Alicia
                        was liable to be at once envious of, and injured by, the riches of others.
                        Her wardrobe was limited. She was, this morning, vexatiously conscious of a
                        warmer hue in the back pleats than in the front breadth of her mauve,
                        cashmere dress, sparsely decorated with bows of but indifferently white
                        ribbon.—“It has enabled them to make an immense success. One really gets
                        rather tired of hearing about them. But everybody goes to their house, you
                        know, and says that he is perfectly charming.”
                    “Half the parents in London would jump at the chance of one of their girls
                        making such a marriage,”—this from Lady Louisa.
                    Mr. Quayle looked over his shoulder and registered a conviction that his
                        father did not belong to that active, parental moiety. He sat stubbornly on
                        a straight?backed, white?and?gold chair, his hands clasped on the top of his
                        favourite, gold?headed walking?stick. He had refused to part with this
                        weapon on entering the house. It gave him a sense of authority, of security.
                        Meanwhile his habitually placid and infantile countenance wore an expression
                        of the acutest worry.
                    “Would they, though?” he said, in response to his daughter’s information
                        regarding the jumping moiety.—“Well, I shouldn’t. In point of fact, I don’t.
                        All that you and Alicia tell me may be perfectly true, my dear Louisa. I
                        would not, for a moment, attempt to discredit your statements. And I don’t
                        wish to be intemperate.—Stupid thing intemperance, sign of weakness,
                        intemperance.—Still I must repeat, and I do repeat, I repeat clearly, that I
                        do not approve of this engagement.”
                    “Did I not prophesy long, long ago what my father’s attitude would be,
                        Louisa?” Mr. Quayle murmured gently, over his shoulder.
                    Then he fell to contemplating the portrait of his brother Guy, aged seven,
                        who was represented arrayed in a brown?holland blouse of singular
                        formlessness confined at the waist by a
                        black leather belt, and carrying, cupid?like, in his hands a bow and arrows
                        decorated with sky?blue ribbons.—“Were my brothers and I actually such
                        appallingly insipid?looking little idiots?” he asked himself. “In that case
                        the years do bring compensations. We really bear fewer outward traces of
                        utter imbecility now.”
                    “I don’t wish to be harsh with you, my dears—never have been harsh, to my
                        knowledge, with any one of my children. Believe in kindness. Always have
                        been lenient with my children”—
                    “And, as indirect consequence thereof, note my eldest brother’s frequent
                        epistles to the Hebrews!” commented Mr. Quayle softly. “The sweet simplicity
                        of this counterfeit presentment of him, armed with a pea?green bait?tin and
                        jointless fishing?rod, hardly shadows forth the copious insolvencies of
                        recent times!”
                    “Never have approved of harshness,” continued Lord Fallowfeild. “Still I do
                        feel I should have been given an opportunity of speaking my mind sooner. I
                        ought to have been referred to in the first place. It was my right. It was
                        due to me. I don’t wish to assert my authority in a tyrannical manner. Hate
                        tyranny, always have hated parental tyranny. Still I feel that it was due to
                        me. And Shotover quite agrees with me. Talked in a very nice, gentlemanly,
                        high?minded way about it all this morning, did Shotover.”
                    The two ladies exchanged glances, drawing themselves up with an assumption of
                        reticence and severity.
                    “Really!” exclaimed Lady Alicia. “It seems a pity, papa, that Shotover’s
                        actions are not a little more in keeping with his conversation, then.”
                    But Lord Fallowfeild only grasped the head of his walking?stick the tighter,
                        congratulating himself the while on the unshakable firmness both of his
                        mental and physical attitude.
                    “Oh! ah! yes,” he said, rising to heights of quite reckless defiance. “I know
                        there is a great deal of prejudice against Shotover, just now, among you. He
                        alluded to it this morning with a great deal of feeling. He was not bitter,
                        but he is very much hurt, is Shotover. You are hard on him, Alicia. It is a
                        painful thing to observe upon, but you are hard, and so is Winterbotham. I
                        regret to be obliged to put it so plainly, but I was displeased by
                        Winterbotham’s tone about your brother, last time you and he were down at
                        Whitney from Saturday to Monday.”
                    “At all events, papa, George has never cost his parents a single penny since
                        he left Balliol,” Lady Alicia replied, with some spirit and a very high
                        colour.
                    
                    But Lord Fallowfeild was not to be beguiled into discussion of side issues,
                        though his amiable face was crumpled and puckered by the effort to present
                        an uncompromising front to the enemy.
                    “Some of you ought to have written and informed me as soon as you had any
                        suspicion of what was likely to happen. Not to do so was underhand. I do not
                        wish to employ strong language, but I do consider it underhand. Shotover
                        tells me he would have written if he had only known. But, of course, in the
                        present state of feeling, he was shut out from it all. Ludovic did know, I
                        presume. And, I am sorry to say it, but I consider it very unhandsome of
                        Ludovic not to have communicated with me.”
                    At this juncture Mr. Quayle desisted from contemplation of the family
                        portraits and approached the belligerents, threading his way carefully
                        between the many tables and chairs. There was much furniture, yet but few
                        ornaments, in Lady Louisa’s boudoir. The young man’s long neck was directed
                        slightly forward and his expression was one of polite inquiry.
                    “It is very warm this morning,” he remarked parenthetically, “and, as a
                        family, we appear to feel it. You did me the honour to refer to me just now,
                        I believe, my dear father? Since my two younger sisters have been banished,
                        it has happily become possible to hear both you, and myself, speak. You were
                        saying?”
                    “That you might very properly have written and told me about this business,
                        and given me an opportunity of expressing my opinion before things reached a
                        head.”
                    Mr. Quayle drew forward a chair and seated himself with mild deliberation.
                        Lord Fallowfeild began to fidget.—“Very clever fellow, Ludovic,” he said to
                        himself. “Wonderfully cool head”—and he became suspicious of his own wisdom
                        in having made direct appeal to a person thus distinguished.
                    “I might have written, my dear father. I admit that I might. But there were
                        difficulties. To begin with, I—in this particular—shared Shotover’s
                        position. Louisa had not seen fit to honour me with her confidence.—I beg
                        your pardon, Louisa, you were saying?—And so, you see, I really hadn’t
                        anything to write about.”
                    “But—but—this young man”—Lord Fallowfeild was sensible of a singular
                        reluctance to mention the name of his proposed son?in?law—“this young
                        Calmady, you know, he’s an intimate friend of yours”—
                    “Difficulty number two. For I doubted how you would take the matter”—
                    
                    “Did you, though?” said Lord Fallowfeild, with an appreciable smoothing of
                        crumples and puckers.
                    “I’m extremely attached to Dickie Calmady. And I did not want to put a spoke
                        in his wheel.”
                    “Of course not, my dear boy, of course not. Nasty unpleasant business putting
                        spokes in other men’s wheels, specially when they’re your friends. I
                        acknowledge that.”
                    “I am sure you do,” Mr. Quayle replied, indulgently. “You are always on the
                        side of doing the generous thing, my dear father,—when you see it.”
                    Here his lordship’s grasp upon the head of his walking?stick relaxed
                        sensibly.
                    “Thank you, Ludovic. Very pleasant thing to have one’s son say to one, I must
                        say, uncommonly pleasant.”—Alas! he felt himself to be slipping, slipping.
                        “Deucèd shrewd, diplomatic fellow, Ludovic,” he remarked to himself somewhat
                        ruefully. All the same, the little compliment warmed him through. He knew it
                        made for defeat, yet for the life of him he could not but relish it.—“Very
                        pleasant,” he repeated. “But that’s not the point, my dear boy. Now, about
                        this young fellow Calmady’s proposal for your sister Constance?”
                    Mr. Quayle looked full at the speaker, and for once his expression held no
                        hint of impertinence or raillery.
                    “Dickie Calmady is as fine a fellow as ever fought, or won, an almost
                        hopeless battle,” he said. “He is somewhat heroic, in my opinion. And he is
                        very lovable.”
                    “Is he, though?” Lord Fallowfeild commented, quite gently.
                    “A woman who understood him, and had some idea of all he must have gone
                        through, could not well help being very proud of him.”
                    Yet, even while speaking, the young man knew his advocacy to be but
                        half?hearted. He praised his friend rather than his friend’s contemplated
                        marriage.—“But his dear, old lordship’s not very quick. He’ll never spot
                        that,” he added mentally. And then he reflected that little Lady Constance
                        was not very quick either. She might marry obediently, even gladly. But was
                        it probable she would develop sufficient imagination ever to understand, and
                        therefore be proud of, Richard Calmady?
                    “He is brilliant too,” Ludovic continued. “He is as well read as any man of
                        his standing whom I know, and he can think for himself. And, when he is in
                        the vein, he is unusually good company.”
                    “Everybody says he is extraordinarily agreeable,” broke in Lady Alicia. “Old Lady Combmartin was saying only
                        yesterday—George and I met her at the Aldhams’, Louisa, you know, at
                        dinner—that she had not heard better conversation for years. And she was
                        brought up among Macaulay, and Rogers, and all the Holland House set, so her
                        opinion really is worth having.”
                    But Lord Fallowfeild’s grasp had tightened again upon his walking?stick.
                    “Was she, though?” he said rather incoherently.
                    “Pray, from all this, don’t run away with the notion Calmady is a prig,”
                        Ludovic interposed. “He is as keen a sportsman as you are—in as far, of
                        course, as sport is possible for him.”
                    Here Lord Fallowfeild, finding himself somewhat hard pressed, sought relief
                        in movement. He turned sideways, throwing one shapely leg across the other,
                        grasping the supporting walking?stick in his right hand, while with the left
                        he laid hold of the back of the white?and?gold chair.
                    “Oh! ah! yes,” he said valiantly, directing his gaze upon the tree?tops in
                        the Park. “I quite accept all you tell me. I don’t want to detract from your
                        friend’s merits—poor, mean sort of thing to detract from any man’s friend’s
                        merits. Gentlemanlike young fellow Calmady, the little I have seen of
                        him—reminds me of my poor friend his father. I liked his father. But, you
                        see, my dear boy, there is—well, there’s no denying it, there is—and
                        Shotover quite”—
                    “Of course, papa, we all know what you mean,” Lady Louisa interposed, with a
                        certain loftiness and, it must be owned, asperity. “I have never pretended
                        there was not something one had to get accustomed to. But really you forget
                        all about it almost immediately—everyone does—one can see that —don’t they,
                        Alicia? If you had met Sir Richard everywhere, as we have, this season, you
                        would realise how very very soon that is quite forgotten.”
                    “Is it, though?” said Lord Fallowfeild somewhat incredulously. His face had
                        returned to a sadly puckered condition.
                    “Yes, I assure you, nobody thinks of it, after just the first little shock,
                        don’t you know,”—this from Lady Louisa.
                    “I think one feels it is not quite nice to dwell on a thing of that kind,”
                        her sister chimed in, reddening again. “It ought to be ignored.”—From a
                        girl, the speaker had enjoyed a reputation for great refinement of mind.
                    “I think it amounts to being more than not nice,” echoed Lady Louisa. “I
                        think it is positively wrong, for nobody can tell what accident may not happen to any of us at any moment. And so I am
                        not at all sure that it is not actually unchristian to make a thing like
                        that into a serious objection.”
                    “You know, papa, there must be deformed people in some families, just as
                        there is consumption or insanity.”
                    “Or under?breeding, or attenuated salaries,” Mr. Quayle softly murmured. “It
                        becomes evident, my dear father, you must not expect too much of sons, or I
                        of brothers, in?law.”
                    “Think of old Lord Sokeington—I mean the great uncle of the present man, of
                        course—of his temper,” Lady Louisa proceeded, regardless of ironical
                        comment. “It amounted almost to mania. And yet Lady Dorothy Hellard would
                        certainly have married him. There never was any question about it.”
                    “Would she, though? Bad, old man, Sokeington. Never did approve of
                        Sokeington.”
                    “Of course she would. Mrs. Crookenden, who always has been devoted to her,
                        told me so.”
                    “Did she, though?” said Lord Fallowfeild. “But the marriage was broken off,
                        my dear.”
                    He made this remark triumphantly, feeling it showed great acuteness.
                    “Oh, dear no! indeed it wasn’t,” his daughter replied. “Lord Sokeington
                        behaved in the most outrageous manner. At the last moment he never proposed
                        to her at all. And then it came out that for years he had been living with
                        one of the still?room maids.”
                    “Louisa!” cried Lady Alicia, turning scarlet.
                    “Had he, though? The old scoundrel!”
                    “Papa,” cried Lady Alicia.
                    “So he was, my dear. Very bad old man, Sokeington. Very amusing old man too,
                        though.”
                    And, overcome by certain reminiscences, Lord Fallowfeild chuckled a little,
                        shamefacedly. His second daughter thereupon arranged the folds of her mauve
                        cashmere, with bent head.—“It is very clear papa and Shotover have been
                        together to?day,” she thought. “Shotover’s influence over papa is always
                        demoralising. It’s too extraordinary the subjects men joke about and call
                        amusing when they get together.”
                    A pause followed, a brief cessation of hostilities, during which Mr. Quayle
                        looked inquiringly at his three companions.
                    “Alicia fancies herself shocked,” he said to himself, “and my father fancies
                        himself wicked, and Louisa fancies herself a chosen vessel. Strong delusion
                        is upon them all. The only question is
                        whose delusion is the strongest, and who, consequently, will first renew the
                        fray? Ah! the chosen vessel! I thought as much.”
                    “You see, papa, one really must be practical,” Lady Louisa began in clear,
                        emphatic tones. “We all know how you have spoiled Constance. She and
                        Shotover have always been your favourites. But even you must admit that
                        Shotover’s wretched extravagance has impoverished you, and helped to
                        impoverish all your other children. And you must also admit, notwithstanding
                        your partiality for Constance, that”—
                    “I want to see Connie. I want to hear from herself that she”—broke out Lord
                        Fallowfeild. His kindly heart yearned over this ewe?lamb of his large flock.
                        But the eldest of the said flock interposed sternly.
                    “No, no,” she cried, “pray, papa, not yet. Connie is quite contented and
                        reasonable—I believe she is out shopping just now, too. And while you are in
                        this state of indecision yourself, it would be the greatest mistake for you
                        to see her. It would only disturb and upset her—wouldn’t it, Alicia?”
                    And the lady thus appealed to assented. It is true that when she arrived at
                        the great house in Albert Gate that morning she had found little Lady
                        Constance with her pretty, baby face sadly marred by tears. But she had put
                        that down to the exigencies of the situation. All young ladies of refined
                        mind cried under kindred circumstances. Had she not herself wept copiously,
                        for the better part of a week, before finally deciding to accept George
                        Winterbotham? Moreover, a point of jealousy undoubtedly pricked Lady Alicia
                        in this connection. She was far from being a cruel woman, but, comparing her
                        own modest material advantages in marriage with the surprisingly handsome
                        ones offered to her little sister, she could not be wholly sorry that the
                        latter’s rose was not entirely without thorns. That the flower in question
                        should have been thornless, as well as so very fine and large, would surely
                        have trenched on injustice to herself. This thought had, perhaps
                        unconsciously, influenced her when enlarging on the becomingness of a
                        refined indifference to Sir Richard Calmady’s deformity. In her heart of
                        hearts she was disposed, perhaps unconsciously, to hail rather than deplore
                        the fact of that same deformity. For did it not tend subjectively to
                        equalise her lot and that of her little sister, and modify the otherwise
                        humiliating disparity of their respective fortunes? Therefore she capped
                        Lady Louisa’s speech, by saying immediately:—
                    “Yes, indeed, papa, it would only be an unkindness to run any risk of upsetting Connie. No really nice girl
                        ever really quite likes the idea of marriage.”—
                    “Doesn’t she, though?” commented Lord Fallowfeild, with an air of receiving
                        curious, scientific information.
                    “Oh, of course not! How could she? And then, papa, you know how you have
                        always indulged Connie”—Lady Alicia’s voice was slightly peevish in tone.
                        She was not in very good health at the present time, with the consequence
                        that her face showed thin and bird?like. While, notwithstanding the genial
                        heat of the summer’s day, she presented a starved and chilly
                        appearance.—“Always indulged Connie,” she repeated, “and that has inclined
                        her to be rather selfish and fanciful.”
                    The above statements, both regarding his own conduct and the effect of that
                        conduct upon his little ewe?lamb, nettled the amiable nobleman considerably.
                        He faced round upon the speaker with an intention of reprimand, but in so
                        doing his eyes were arrested by his daughter’s faded dress and disorganised
                        complexion. He relented.—“Poor thing looks ill,” he thought. “A man’s an
                        unworthy brute who ever says a sharp word to a woman in her condition.”—And,
                        before he had time to find a word other than sharp, Lady Louisa Barking
                        returned to the charge.
                    “Exactly,” she asserted. “Alicia is perfectly right. At present Connie is
                        quite reasonable. And all we entreat, papa, is that you will let her remain
                        so, until you have made up your own mind. Do pray let us be dignified. One
                        knows how the servants get hold of anything of this kind and discuss it, if
                        there is any want of dignity or any indecision. That is too odious. And I
                        must really think just a little of Mr. Barking and myself in the matter. It
                        has all gone on in our house, you see. One must consider appearances, and
                        with all the recent gossip about Shotover, we do not want another esclandre—the servants knowing all about it
                        too. And then, with all your partiality for Constance, you cannot suppose
                        she will have many opportunities of marrying men with forty or fifty
                        thousand a year.”
                    “No, papa, as Louisa says, in your partiality for Connie you must not
                        entirely forget the claims of your other children. She must not be
                        encouraged to think exclusively of herself, and it is not fair that you
                        should think exclusively of her. I know that George and I are poor, but it
                        is through no fault of our own. He most honourably refuses to take anything
                        from his mother, and you know how small my private income is. Yet no one can
                        accuse George of lack of generosity. When any of my family want to come to
                        us he always makes them welcome. Maggie
                        only left us last Thursday, and Emily comes to?morrow. I know we can’t do
                        much. It is not possible with our small means and establishment. But what
                        little we can do, George is most willing should be done.”
                    “Excellent fellow Winterbotham,” Lord Fallowfeild put in soothingly. “Very
                        steady, painstaking man Winterbotham.”
                    His second daughter looked at him reproachfully.
                    “Thank you, papa,” she said. “I own I was a little hurt just now by the tone
                        in which you alluded to George.”
                    “Were you, though? I’m sure I’m very sorry, my dear Alicia. Hate to hurt
                        anybody, specially one of my own children. Unnatural thing to hurt one of
                        your own children. But you see this feeling of all of you about Shotover has
                        been very painful to me. I never have liked divisions in families. Never
                        know where they may lead to. Nasty, uncomfortable things divisions in
                        families.”
                    “Well, papa, I can only say that divisions are almost invariably caused by a
                        want of the sense of duty.”—Lady Louisa’s voice was stern. “And if people
                        are over?indulged they become selfish, and then, of course, they lose their
                        sense of duty.”
                    “My sister is a notable logician,” Mr. Quayle murmured, under his breath. “If
                        logic ruled life, how clear, how simple our course! But then, unfortunately,
                        it doesn’t.”
                    “Shotover has really no one but himself to thank for any bitterness that his
                        brothers and sisters may feel towards him. He has thrown away his chances,
                        has got the whole family talked about in a most objectionable manner, and
                        has been a serious encumbrance to you, and indirectly to all of us. We have
                        all suffered quite enough trouble and annoyance already. And so I must
                        protest, papa, I must very strongly and definitely protest, against Connie
                        being permitted, still more encouraged, to do exactly the same thing.”
                    Lord Fallowfeild, still grasping his walking?stick,—though he could not but
                        fear that trusted weapon had proved faithless and sadly failed in its duty
                        of support,—gazed distractedly at the speaker. Visions of Jewish
                        money?lenders, of ladies more fair and kind than wise, of guinea points at
                        whist, of the prize ring, of Baden?Baden, of Newmarket and Doncaster, arose
                        confusedly before him. What the deuce,—he did not like bad language, but
                        really,—what the dickens, had all these to do with his ewe?lamb, innocent,
                        little Constance, her virgin?white body and soul, and her sweet, wide?eyed
                        prettiness?
                    “My dear Louisa, no doubt you know what you mean, but I give you my word I
                        don’t,” he began.
                    
                    “Hear, hear, my dear father,” put in Mr. Quayle. “There I am with you.
                        Louisa’s wing is strong, her range is great. I myself, on this occasion,
                        find it not a little difficult to follow her.”
                    “Nonsense, Ludovic,” almost snapped the lady. “You follow me perfectly, or
                        can do so if you use your common sense. Papa must face the fact, that
                        Constance cannot afford—that we cannot afford to have her—throw away her
                        chances, as Shotover has thrown away his. We all have a duty, not only to
                        ourselves, but to each other. Inclination must give way to duty—though I do
                        not say Constance exhibits any real disinclination to this marriage. She is
                        a little flurried. As Alicia said just now, every really nice?minded girl is
                        flurried at the idea of marriage. She ought to be. I consider it only
                        delicate that she should be. But she understands—I have pointed it out to
                        her—that her money, her position, and those two big houses—Brockhurst and
                        the one in Lowndes Square—will be of the greatest advantage to the girls and
                        to her brothers. It is not as if she was nobody. The scullery?maid can marry
                        whom she likes, of course. But in our rank of life it is different. A girl
                        is bound to think of her family, as well as of herself. She is bound to
                        consider”—
                    The groom?of?the?chambers opened the door and advanced solemnly across the
                        boudoir to Lord Fallowfeild.
                    “Sir Richard Calmady is in the smoking?room, my lord,” he said, “to see
                        you.”
                
                
                    CHAPTER V
                    IPHIGENIA
                    CHASTENED in spirit, verbally acquiescent, yet unconvinced, a
                        somewhat pitiable sense of inadequacy upon him, Lord Fallowfeild travelled
                        back to Westchurch that night. Two days later the morning papers announced
                        to all whom it might concern,—and that far larger all, whom it did not
                        really concern in the least—in the conventional phrases common to such
                        announcements, that Sir Richard Calmady and Lady Constance Quayle had agreed
                        shortly to become man and wife. Thus did Katherine Calmady, in all
                        trustfulness, strive to give her son his desire, while the great and little
                        world looked on, and made comments various as the natures and circumstances
                        of the units composing them.
                    
                    Lady Louisa was filled with the pride of victory. Her venture had not
                        miscarried. At church on Sunday—she was really too busy socially, just now,
                        to attend what it was her habit to describe as “odds and ends of week?day
                        services,” and therefore worshipped on the Sabbath only, and then by no
                        means in secret or with shut door—she repeated the General Thanksgiving with
                        much unction and in an aggressively audible voice. And Lady Alicia
                        Winterbotham expressed a peevish hope that—“such great wealth might not turn
                        Constance’s head and make her just a little vulgar. It was all rather
                        dangerous for a girl of her age, and she”—the speaker—“trusted
                            somebody would point out to Connie the heavy
                        responsibilities towards others such a position brought with it.” And Lord
                        Shotover delivered it as his opinion that—“It might be all right. He hoped
                        to goodness it was, for he’d always been uncommonly fond of the young ’un.
                        But it seemed to him rather a put?up job all round, and so he meant just to
                        keep his eye on Con, he swore he did.” In furtherance of which laudable
                        determination he braved his eldest sister’s frowns with heroic intrepidity,
                        calling to see the young girl whenever all other sources of amusement failed
                        him, and paying her the compliment—as is the habit of the natural man, when
                        unselfishly desirous of giving pleasure to the women of his family—of
                        talking continuously and exclusively about his own affairs, his gains at
                        cards, his losses on horses, even recounting, in moments of more than
                        ordinarily expansive affection, the less wholly disreputable episodes of his
                        many adventures of the heart. And Honoria St. Quentin’s sensitive face
                        straightened and her lips closed rather tight whenever the marriage was
                        mentioned before her. She refused to express any view on the subject, and to
                        that end took rather elaborate pains to avoid the society of Mr. Quayle. And
                        Lady Dorothy Hellard—whose unhappy disappointment in respect of the late
                        Lord Sokeington and other nonsuccessful excursions in the direction of
                        wedlock, had not cured her of sentimental leanings—asserted that—“It was
                        quite the most romantic and touching engagement she had ever heard of.” To
                        which speech her mother, the Dowager Lady Combmartin, replied, with the
                        directness of statement which made her acquaintance so cautious of differing
                        from her:—“Touching? Romantic? Fiddle?de?dee! You ought to be ashamed of
                        yourself for thinking so at your age, Dorothy. A bargain’s a bargain, and in
                        my opinion the bride has got much the best of it. For she’s a mawkish,
                        milk?and?water, little schoolgirl, while he is charming—all there is of him.
                        If there’d been a little more I declare I’d have married him myself.” And
                        good?looking Mr. Decies, of the 101st
                        Lancers, got into very hot water with the mounted constables, and with the
                        livery?stable keeper from whom he hired his hacks, for “furious riding” in
                        the Park. And Julius March walked the paved ways and fragrant alleys of the
                        red?walled gardens at Brockhurst, somewhat sadly, in the glowing June
                        twilights, meditating upon the pitiless power of change which infects all
                        things human, and of his own lifelong love doomed to “find no earthly
                        close.” And Mrs. Chifney, down at the racing?stables, rejoiced to the point
                        of tears, being possessed by the persistent instinct of matrimony common to
                        the British, lower middle?class. And Sandyfield parish rejoiced likewise,
                        and pealed its church?bells in token thereof, foreseeing much carnal
                        gratification in the matter of cakes and ale. And Madame de Vallorbes, whose
                        letters to Richard had come to be pretty frequent during the last eight
                        months, was overtaken by silence and did not write at all.
                    But this omission on the part of his cousin was grateful, rather than
                        distressing, to the young man. It appeared to him very sympathetic of Helen
                        not to write. It showed a finely, imaginative sensibility and
                        considerateness on her part, which made Dickie sigh, thinking of it, and
                        then, so to speak, turn away his head. And to do this last was the less
                        difficult that his days were very full just now. And his mind was very full,
                        likewise, of gentle thoughts of, and many provisions for, the happiness of
                        his promised bride.
                    The young girl was timid in his presence, it is true. Yet she was
                        transparently, appealingly, anxious to please. Her conversation was neither
                        ready nor brilliant, but she was very fair to look upon in her childlike
                        freshness and innocence. A protective element, a tender and chivalrous
                        loyalty, entered into Richard’s every thought of her. A great passion and a
                        happy marriage were two quite separate matters—so he argued in his
                        inexperience. And this was surely the wife a man should desire, modest,
                        guileless, dutiful, pure in heart as in person? The gentle dumbness which
                        often held her did not trouble him. It was a pretty pastime to try to win
                        her confidence and open the doors of her artless speech.
                    And then, to Richard, tempted it is true, but as yet himself unsullied, it
                        was so sacred and wonderful a thing that this spotless woman?creature in all
                        the fragrance of her youth belonged to him in a measure already, and would
                        belong to him, before many weeks were out, wholly and of inalienable right.
                        And so it happened that the very limitations of the young girl’s nature came
                        to enhance her attractions. Dickie could not get very near to her mind, but that merely piqued his
                        curiosity and provoked his desire of discovery. She was to him as a book
                        written in strange character, difficult to decipher. With the result that he
                        accredited her with subtleties and many fine feelings she. did not really
                        possess, while he failed to divine—not from defective sympathy so much as
                        from absorption in his self?created idea of her—the very simple feelings
                        which actually animated her. His masculine pride was satisfied, in that so
                        eligible a maiden consented to become his wife. His moral sense was
                        satisfied also, since he had—as he supposed—put temptation from him and
                        chosen the better part. Very certainly he was not violently in love. That he
                        supposed to be a thing of the past. But he was quietly happy. While ahead
                        lay the mysterious enchantments of marriage. Dickie’s heart was very tender,
                        just then. Life had never turned on him a more gracious face.
                    Nevertheless, once or twice, a breath of distrust dimmed the bright surface
                        of his existing complacency. One day, for instance, he had taken his
                            fiancée for a morning drive and
                        brought her home to luncheon. After that meal she should sit for a while
                        with Lady Calmady, and then join him in the library downstairs, for he had
                        that which he coveted to show to her.—But it appeared to him that she
                        tarried unduly with his mother, and he grew impatient waiting through the
                        long minutes of the summer afternoon. A barrel?organ droned slumberously
                        from the other side of the square, while to his ears, so long attuned to
                        country silences or the quick, intermittent music of nature, the ceaseless
                        roar of London became burdensome. Ever after, thinking of this first wooing
                        of his, he recalled—as slightly sinister—that ever?present murmur of
                        traffic,—bearing testimony, as it seemed later, to the many activities in
                        which he could play, after all, but so paltry and circumscribed a part.
                    And, listening to that same murmur now, something of rebellion against
                        circumstance arose in Dickie for all that the present was very good. For, as
                        he considered, any lover other than himself would not sit pinned to an
                        arm?chair awaiting his mistress’ coming, but, did she delay, would go to
                        seek her, claim her, and bear her merrily away. The organ?grinder,
                        meanwhile, cheered by a copper shower from some adjacent balcony, turned the
                        handle of his instrument more vigorously, letting loose stirring valse?tune
                        and march upon the sultry air. Such music was, of necessity, somewhat
                        comfortless hearing to Richard, debarred alike from deeds of arms or joy of
                        dancing. His impatience increased. It was a little inconsiderate of his
                        mother surely to detain Constance for so
                        long! But just then the sound of women’s voices reached him through the
                        half?open door. The two ladies were leisurely descending the stairs. There
                        was a little pause, then he heard Lady Calmady say, as though in gentle
                        rebuke:—
                    “No, no, dear child, I will not come with you. Richard would like better to
                        see you alone. Too, I have a number of letters to write. I am at home to no
                        one this afternoon. You will find me in the sitting?room here. You can come
                        and bid me good?bye—now, dear child, go.”
                    Thus admonished, Lady Constance moved forward. Yet, to Dickie’s listening
                        ears, it appeared that it took her an inordinate length of time to traverse
                        the length of the hall from the foot of the stairs to the library door. And
                        there again she paused—the organ, now nearer, rattling out the tramp of a
                        popular military march. But the throb and beat of the quick?step failed to
                        hasten Lady Constance’s lagging feet, so that further rebellion against his
                        own infirmity assaulted poor Dick.
                    At length the girl entered with a little rush, her soft cheeks flushed, her
                        rounded bosom heaving, as though she arrived from a long and arduous walk,
                        rather than from that particularly deliberate traversing of the cool hall
                        and descent of the airy stairway.
                    “Ah! here you are at last, then!” Richard exclaimed. “I began to wonder if
                        you had forgotten all about me.”
                    The young girl did not attempt to sit down, but stood directly in front of
                        him, her hands clasped loosely, yet somewhat nervously, almost in the
                        attitude of a child about to recite a lesson. Her still, heifer’s eyes were
                        situate so far apart that Dickie, looking up at her, found it difficult to
                        focus them both at the same glance. And this produced an effect of slight
                        uncertainty, even of a defect of vision, at once pathetic and quaintly
                        attractive. Her face was heart?shaped, narrowing from the wide, low brow to
                        the small, rounded chin set below a round, babyish mouth of slight mobility
                        but much innocent sweetness. Her light, brown hair, rising in an upward
                        curve on either side the straight parting, was swept back softly, yet
                        smoothly, behind her small ears. The neck of her white, alpaca dress, cut
                        square according to the then prevailing fashion, was outlined with flat
                        bands of pale, blue ribbon, and filled up with lace to the base of the round
                        column of her throat. Blue ribbons adorned the hem of her simple skirt, and
                        a band of the same colour encircled her shapely, though not noticeably
                        slender, waist. Her bosom was rather full
                        for so young a woman; so that, notwithstanding her perfect freshness and air
                        of almost childlike simplicity, there was a certain statuesque quality in
                        the effect of her white?clad figure seen thus in the shaded library, with
                        its russet?red walls and ranges of dark bookshelves.
                    “I am so sorry,” she said breathlessly. “I should have come sooner, but I was
                        talking to Lady Calmady, and I did not know it was so late. I am not afraid
                        of talking to Lady Calmady, she is so very kind to me, and there are many
                        questions I wanted to ask her. She promises to help and tell me what I ought
                        to do. And I am very glad of that. It will prevent my making mistakes.”
                    Her attitude and the earnestness of her artless speech were to Richard almost
                        pathetically engaging. His irritation vanished. He smiled, looked up at her,
                        his own face flushing a little.
                    “I don’t fancy you will ever make any very dangerous mistakes!” he said.
                    “Ah! but I might,” the girl insisted. “You see I have always been told what
                        to do.”
                    “Always?” Dickie asked, more for the pleasure of watching her stand thus than
                        for any great importance he attached to her answer.
                    “Oh yes!” she said. “First by our nurses, and then by our governesses. They
                        were not always very kind. They called me obstinate. But I did not mean to
                        be obstinate. Only they spoke in French or German, and I could not always
                        understand. And since I have grown up my elder sisters have told me what I
                        ought to do.”
                    It seemed to Richard that the girl’s small, round chin trembled a little, and
                        that a look of vague distress invaded her soft, ruminant, wide?set eyes.
                    “And so I should have been very frightened, now, unless I had had Lady
                        Calmady to tell me.”
                    “Well, I think there’s only one thing my mother will need to tell you, and it
                        won’t run into either French or German. It can be stated in very plain
                        English. Just to do whatever you like, and—and be happy.”
                    Lady Constance stared at the speaker with her air of gentle perplexity. As
                        she did so undoubtedly her pretty chin did tremble a little.
                    “Ah! but to do what you like can never really make you happy,” she said.
                    “Can’t it? I’m not altogether so sure of that. I had ventured to suppose
                        there were a number of things you and I
                        would do in the future, which will be most uncommonly pleasant without being
                        conspicuously harmful.”
                    He leaned sideways, stretching out to a neighbouring chair with his right
                        hand, keeping the light, silk?woven, red blanket up across his thighs with
                        his left.
                    “Do sit down, Constance, and we will talk of things we both like to do, at
                        greater length—Ah! bother—forgive me—I can’t reach it.”
                    “Oh! please don’t trouble. It doesn’t matter. I can get it quite well
                        myself,” Lady Constance said, quite quickly for once. She drew up the chair
                        and sat down near him, folding her hands again nervously in her lap. All the
                        colour had died out of her cheeks. They were as white as her rounded throat.
                        She kept her eyes fixed on Richard’s face, and her bosom rose and fell,
                        while her words came somewhat gaspingly. Still she talked on with a touching
                        little effect of determined civility.
                    “Lady Calmady was very kind in telling me I might sometimes go over to
                        Whitney,” she said. “I should like that. I am afraid papa will miss me. Of
                        course there will be all the others just the same. But I go out so much with
                        him. Of course I would not ask to go over very often, because I know it
                        might be inconvenient for me to have the horses.”
                    “But you will have your own horses,” Richard answered. “I wrote to Chifney to
                        look out for a pair of cobs for you last week—browns—you said you liked that
                        colour I remember. And I told him they were to be broken until big guns,
                        going off under their very noses, wouldn’t make them so much as wince.”
                    “Are you buying them just for me?” the girl said.
                    “Just for you?” Dickie laughed. “Why, who on earth should I buy anything for
                        but just you, I should like to know?”
                    “But”—she began.
                    “But—but”—he echoed, resting his hands on the two arms of his chairs leaning
                        forward and still laughing, though somewhat shyly. “Don’t you see the whole
                        and sole programme is that you should do all you like, and have all you
                        like, and—and be happy.”—Richard straightened himself up, still looking full
                        at her, trying to focus both these quaintly?engaging, far?apart eyes.
                        “Constance, do you never play?” he asked her suddenly.
                    “I did practise every morning at home, but lately”—
                    “Oh! I don’t mean that,” the young man said. “I mean quite another sort of
                        playing.”
                    “Games?” Lady Constance inquired. “I am afraid I am rather stupid about games. I find it so difficult
                        to remember numbers and words, and I never can make a ball go where I want
                        it to, somehow.”
                    “I was not thinking of games either, exactly,” Richard said, smiling.
                    The girl stared at him in some perplexity. Then she spoke again, with the
                        same little effect of determined civility.
                    “I am very fond of dancing and of skating. The ice was very good on the lake
                        at Whitney this winter. Rupert and Gerry were home from Eton, and Eddy had
                        brought a young man down with him—Mr. Hubbard—who is in his business in
                        Liverpool, and a friend of my brother Guy’s was staying in the house too,
                        from India. I think you have met him—Mr. Decies. We skated till past twelve
                        one night—a Wednesday, I think. There was a moon, and a great many stars.
                        The thermometer registered fifteen degrees of frost Mr. Decies told me. But
                        I was not cold. It was very beautiful.”
                    Richard shifted his position. The organ had moved farther away. Uncheered by
                        further copper showers it droned again slumberously, while the murmur sent
                        forth by the thousand activities of the great city waxed loud, for the
                        moment, and hoarsely insistent.
                    “I do not bore you?” Lady Constance asked, in sudden anxiety.
                    “Oh no, no!” Richard answered. “I am glad to have you tell me about yourself,
                        if you will; and all that you care for.”
                    Thus encouraged, the girl took up her little parable again, her sweet, rather
                        vacant, face growing almost animated as she spoke.
                    “We did something else I liked very much, but from what Alicia said
                        afterwards I am afraid I ought not to have liked it. One day it snowed, and
                        we all played hide?and?seek. There are a number of attics in the roof of the
                        bachelor’s wing at Whitney, and there are long up?and?down passages leading
                        round to the old nurseries. Mama did not mind, but Alicia was very
                        displeased. She said it was a mere excuse for romping. But that was not
                        true. Of course we never thought of romping. We did make a great noise,” she
                        added conscientiously, “but that was Rupert and Gerry’s fault. They would
                        jump out after promising not to, and of course it was impossible to help
                        screaming. Eddy’s Liverpool friend tried to jump out too, but Maggie snubbed
                        him. I think he deserved it. You ought to play fair; don’t you think so?
                        After promising, you would never jump out, would you?”
                    And there Lady Constance stopped, with a little gasp.
                    
                    “Oh! I beg your pardon. I am so sorry. I forgot,” she added breathlessly.
                    Richard’s face had become thin and keen.
                    “Forget just as often as you can, please,” he answered huskily. “I would
                        infinitely rather have you—have everybody —forget altogether—if
                        possible.”
                    “Oh! but I think that would be wrong of me,” she rejoined, with gentle
                        dogmatism. “It is selfish to forget anything that is very sad.”
                    “And is this so very sad?” Richard asked, almost harshly.
                    The girl stared at him with parted lips.
                    “Oh yes!” she said slowly. “Of course,—don’t you think so? It is dreadfully
                        sad.”—And then, her attitude still unchanged and her pretty, plump hands
                        still folded on her lap, she went on, in her touching determination to
                        sustain the conversation with due readiness and civility. “Brockhurst is a
                        much larger house than Whitney, isn’t it? I thought so the day we drove over
                        to luncheon—when that beautiful, French cousin of yours was staying with
                        you, you remember?”
                    “Yes, I remember,” Richard said.
                    And as he spoke Madame de Vallorbes, clothed in the sea?waves, crowned and
                        shod with gold, seemed to stand for a moment beside his innocent, little
                            fiancée. How long it was since he had
                        heard from her! Did she want money, he wondered? It would be intolerable if,
                        because of his marriage, she never let him help her again. And all the while
                        Lady Constance’s unemotional, careful, little voice continued, as did the
                        ceaseless murmur of London.
                    “I remember,” she was saying, “because your cousin is quite the most
                        beautiful person I have ever seen. Papa admired her very much too. We spoke
                        of that as soon as Louisa had left us, when we were alone. But there seemed
                        to me so many staircases at Brockhurst, and rooms opening one out of the
                        other. I have been wondering—since—lately—whether I shall ever be able to
                        find my way about the house.”
                    “I will show you your way,” Dickie said gently, banishing the vision of Helen
                        de Vallorbes.
                    “You will show it me?” the girl asked, in evident surprise.
                    Then a companion picture to that of Madame de Vallorbes arose before Dickie’s
                        mental vision—namely the good?looking, long?legged, young, Irish soldier,
                        Mr. Decies, of the 101st Lancers, flying along the attic passages of the
                        Whitney bachelor’s wing, in company with this immediately?so?demure and
                        dutiful maiden and all the rest of that admittedly rather uproarious, holiday throng. Thereat a foolish lump
                        rose in poor Richard’s throat, for he too was, after all, but young. He
                        choked the foolish lump down again. Yet it left his voice a trifle
                        husky.
                    “Yes, I will show you your way,” he said. “I can manage that much, you know,
                        at home, in private, among my own people. Only you mustn’t be in a hurry. I
                        have to take my time. You must not mind that. I—I go slowly.”
                    “But that will be much better for me,” she answered, with rather humble
                        courtesy, “because then I am more likely to remember my way. I have so much
                        difficulty in knowing my way. I still lose myself sometimes in the park at
                        Whitney. I did once this winter with—my brother Guy’s friend, Mr. Decies.
                        The boys always tease me about losing my way. Even papa says I have no bump
                        of locality. I am afraid I am stupid about that. My governesses always
                        complained that I was a very thoughtless child.”
                    Lady Constance unfolded her hands. Her timid, engagingly vague gaze dwelt
                        appealingly upon Richard’s handsome face.
                    “I think, perhaps, if you do not mind, I will go now,” she said. “I must bid
                        Lady Calmady good?bye. We dine at Lady Combmartin’s to?night. You dine there
                        too, don’t you? And my sister Louisa may want me to drive with her, or write
                        some notes, before I dress.”
                    “Wait half a minute,” Dickie said. “I’ve got something for you. Let’s see—Oh!
                        there it is!”
                    Raising himself he stood, for a moment, on the seat of the chair, steadying
                        himself with one hand on the back of it, and reached a little, silver?paper
                        covered parcel from the neighbouring table. Then he slipped back into a
                        sitting position, drew the silken blanket up across his thighs, and tossed
                        the little parcel gently into Lady Constance Quayle’s lap.
                    “I as near as possible let you go without it,” he said. “Not that it’s
                        anything very wonderful. It’s nothing—only I saw it in a shop in Bond Street
                        yesterday, and it struck me as rather quaint. I thought you might like it.
                        Why—but—Constance, what’s the matter?”
                    For the girl’s pretty, heart?shaped face had blanched to the whiteness of her
                        white dress. Her eyes were strained, as those of one who beholds an object
                        of terror. Not only her chin but her round, baby mouth trembled. Richard
                        looked at her, amazed at these evidences of distressing emotion. Then
                        suddenly he understood.
                    “I frighten you. How horrible!” he said.
                    But little Lady Constance had not suffered persistent training at the hands of nurses, and governesses, and
                        elder sisters, during all her eighteen years of innocent living for nothing.
                        She had her own small code of manners and morals, of honour and duty, and to
                        the requirements of that code, as she apprehended them, she yielded
                        unqualified obedience, not unheroic in its own meagre and rather
                        puzzle?headed fashion. So that now, notwithstanding trembling lips, she
                        retained her intention of civility and entered immediate apology for her own
                        weakness.
                    “No, no, indeed you do not,” she replied. “Please forgive me. I know I was
                        very foolish. I am so sorry. You are so kind to me, you are always giving me
                        beautiful presents, and indeed I am not ungrateful. Only I had never
                        seen—seen—you like that before. And, please forgive me—I will never be
                        foolish again—indeed, I will not. But I was taken by surprise. I beg your
                        pardon. I shall be so dreadfully unhappy if you do not forgive me.”
                    And all the while her shaking hands fumbled helplessly with the narrow ribbon
                        tying the dainty parcel, and big tears rolled down slowly out of her great,
                        soft, wide?set, heifer’s eyes. Never was there more moving or guileless a
                        spectacle! Witnessing which, Richard Calmady was taken somewhat out of
                        himself, his personal misfortune seeming matter inconsiderable, while his
                        childlike fiancée had never appeared more
                        engaging. All the sweetest of his nature responded to her artless appeal in
                        very tender pity.
                    “Why, my dear Constance,” he said, “there’s nothing to forgive. I was
                        foolish, not you. I ought to have known better. Never mind. I don’t. Only
                        wipe your pretty eyes, please. Yes—that’s better. Now let me break that
                        tiresome ribbon for you.”
                    “You are very kind to me,” the girl murmured. Then, as the ribbon broke under
                        Richard’s strong fingers, and the delicate necklace of many, roughly?cut,
                        precious stones—topaz, amethyst, sapphire, ruby, chrysolite, and beryl,
                        joined together, three rows deep, by slender, golden chains—slipped from the
                        enclosing paper wrapping into her open hands, Constance Quayle added, rather
                        tearfully:—“Oh! you are much too kind! You give me too many things. No one I
                        know ever had such beautiful presents. The cobs you told me of, and now
                        this, and the pearls, and the tiara you gave me last week. I—I don’t deserve
                        it. You give me too much, and I give nothing in return.”
                    “Oh yes, you do!” Richard said, flushing. “You—you give me yourself.”
                    
                    Lady Constance’s tears ceased. Again she stared at him in gentle
                        perplexity.
                    “You promise to marry me”—
                    “Yes, of course, I have promised that,” she said slowly.
                    “And isn’t that about the greatest giving there can be? A few horses, and
                        jewels, and such rubbish of sorts, weigh pretty light in the balance against
                        that—I being I”—Richard paused a moment—“and you—you.”
                    But a certain ardour which had come into his speech, for all that he sat very
                        still, and that his expression was wholly gentle and indulgent, and that she
                        felt a comfortable assurance that he was not angry with her, rather troubled
                        little Lady Constance Quayle. She rose to her feet, and stood before him
                        again, as a child about to recite a lesson.
                    “I think,” she said, “I must go. Louisa may want me. Thank you so much. This
                        necklace is quite lovely. I never saw one like it. I like so many colours.
                        They remind me of flowers, or of the colours at sunset in the sky. I shall
                        like to wear this very much. You—you will forgive me for having been foolish
                        or if I have bored you?”
                    Her bosom rose and fell, and the words came breathlessly.
                    “I shall see you at Lady Combmartin’s? So—so now I will go.”
                    And with that she departed, leaving Richard more in love with her, somehow,
                        than he had ever been before or had ever thought to be.
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI
                    IN WHICH HONORIA ST. QUENTIN TAKES THE FIELD
                    IT had been agreed that the marriage should take place, in the
                        country, one day in the first week of August. This at Richard’s request.
                        Then the young man asked a further favour, namely that the ceremony might be
                        performed in the private chapel at Brockhurst, rather than in the Whitney
                        parish church. This last proposal, it must be owned, when made to him by
                        Lady Calmady caused Lord Fallowfeild great searchings of heart.
                    “I give you my word, my dear boy, I never felt more awkward in my life,” he
                        said, subsequently, to his chosen confidant, Shotover. “Can quite understand
                        Calmady doesn’t care to court publicity. Told his mother I quite
                            understood. Shouldn’t care to court it
                        myself if I had the misfortune to share his—well, personal peculiarities,
                        don’t you know, poor young fellow. Still this seems to me an uncomfortable,
                        hole and corner sort of way of behaving to one’s daughter—marrying her at
                        his house instead of from my own. I don’t half approve of it. Looks a little
                        as if we were rather ashamed of the whole business.”
                    “Well, perhaps we are,” Lord Shotover remarked.
                    “For God’s sake, then, don’t mention it!” the elder man broke out, with
                        unprecedented asperity. “Don’t approve of strong language,” he added
                        hastily. “Never did approve of it, and very rarely employ it myself. An
                        educated man ought to be able to express himself quite sufficiently clearly
                        without having recourse to it. Still, I must own this engagement of
                        Constance’s has upset me more than almost any event of my life. Nasty,
                        anxious work marrying your daughters. Heavy responsibility marrying your
                        daughters. And, as to this particular marriage, there’s so very much to be
                        said on both sides. And I admit to you, Shotover, if there’s anything I hate
                        it’s a case where there’s very much to be said on both sides. It trips you
                        up, you see, at every turn. Then I feel I was not fairly treated. I don’t
                        wish to be hard on your brother Ludovic and your sisters, but they sprung it
                        upon me, and I am not quick in argument, never was quick, if I am hurried.
                        Never can be certain of my own mind when I am hurried—was not certain of it
                        when Lady Calmady proposed that the marriage should be at Brockhurst. And so
                        I gave way. Must be accommodating to a woman, you know. Always have been
                        accommodating to women—got myself into uncommonly tight places by being so
                        more than once when I was younger”—
                    Here the speaker cheered up visibly, contemplating his favourite son with an
                        air at once humorous and contrite.
                    “You’re well out of it, you know, Shotover, with no ties,” he continued, “at
                        least, I mean, with no wife and family. Not that I don’t consider every man
                        owning property should marry sooner or later. More respectable if you’ve got
                        property to marry, roots you in the soil, gives you a stake, you know, in
                        the future of the country. But I’d let it be later—yes, thinking of
                        marriageable daughters, certainly I’d let it be later.”
                    From which it may be gathered that Richard’s demands were conceded at all
                        points. And this last concession involved many preparations at Brockhurst,
                        to effect which Lady Calmady left London with the bulk of the household about the middle of July, while Richard
                        remained in Lowndes Square and the neighbourhood of his little fiancée—in company with a few servants and many
                        brown holland covers—till such time as that young lady should also depart to
                        the country. It was just now that Lady Louisa Barking gave her annual ball,
                        always one of the latest, and this year one of the smartest, festivities of
                        the season.
                    “I mean it to be exceedingly well done,” she said to her sister Alicia. “And
                        Mr. Barking entirely agrees with me. I feel I owe it not only to myself, but
                        to the rest of the family to show that none of us see anything extraordinary
                        in Connie’s marriage, and that whatever Shotover’s debts may have been, or
                        may be, they are really no concern at all of ours.”
                    In obedience to which laudable determination the handsome mansion in Albert
                        Gate opened wide its portals, and all London—a far from despicable company
                        in numbers, since Parliament was still sitting and the session promised to
                        be rather indefinitely prolonged—crowded its fine stairways and suites of
                        lofty rooms, resplendent in silks and satins, jewels and laces, in orders
                        and titles, and manifold personal distinctions of wealth, or office, or
                        beauty, while strains of music and scent of flowers pervaded the length and
                        breadth of it, and the feet of the dancers sped over its shining floors.
                    It chanced that Honoria St. Quentin found herself, on this occasion, in a
                        meditative, rather than an active, mood. True, the scene was remarkably
                        brilliant. But she had witnessed too many parallel scenes to be very much
                        affected by that. So it pleased her fancy to moralise, to discriminate—not
                        without a delicate sarcasm—between actualities and appearances, between the
                        sentiments which might be divined really to animate many of the guests, and
                        those conventional presentments of sentiment which the manner and bearing of
                        the said guests indicated. She assured Lord Shotover she would rather not
                        dance, that she preferred the attitude of spectator, whereupon that
                        gentleman proposed to her to take sanctuary in a certain ante?chamber,
                        opening off Lady Louisa Barking’s boudoir, which was cool, dimly lighted,
                        and agreeably remote from the turmoil of the entertainment now at its
                        height.
                    The acquaintance of these two persons was, in as far as time and the number
                        of their meetings went, but slight, and, at first sight, their tastes and
                        temperaments would seem wide asunder as the poles. But contrast can form a
                        strong bond of union. And the young man, when his fancy was engaged, was
                        among those who do not waste time over preliminaries. If pleased, he bundled, neck and crop, into intimacy.
                        And Miss St. Quentin, her fearless speech, her amusingly detached attitude
                        of mind, and her gallant bearing, pleased him mightily from a certain point
                        of view. He pronounced her to be a “first?rate sort,” and entertained a
                        shrewd suspicion that, as he put it, Ludovic “was after her.” He commended
                        his brother’s good taste. He considered she would make a tip?top
                        sister?in?law. While the young lady, on her part, accepted his advances in a
                        friendly spirit. His fraternal attitude and unfailing good?temper diverted
                        her. His rather doubtful reputation piqued her curiosity. She accepted the
                        general verdict, declaring him to be good?for?nothing, while she enjoyed the
                        conviction that, rake or no rake, he was incapable of causing her the
                        smallest annoyance, or being guilty—as far as she herself was concerned—of
                        the smallest indiscretion.
                    “You know, Miss St. Quentin,” he remarked, as he established himself
                        comfortably, not to say cosily, on a sofa beside her,—“over and above the
                        pleasure of a peaceful little talk with you, I am not altogether sorry to
                        seek retirement. You see, between ourselves, I’m not, unfortunately, in
                        exactly good odour with some members of the family just now. I don’t think
                        I’m shy”—
                    Honoria smiled at him through the dimness.
                    “I don’t think you’re shy,” she said.
                    “Well, you know, when you come to consider it from an unprejudiced
                        standpoint, what the dickens is the use of being shy? It’s only an inverted
                        kind of conceit at best, and half the time it makes you stand in your own
                        light.”
                    “Clearly it’s a mistake every way,” the young lady asserted. “And, happily,
                        it’s one of which I can entirely acquit you of being guilty.”
                    Lord Shotover threw back his head and looked sideways at his
                        companion.—Wonderfully graceful woman she was certainly! Gave you the
                        feeling she’d all the time there was or ever would be. Delightful thing to
                        see a woman who was never in a hurry.
                    “No, honestly I don’t believe I’m weak in the way of shyness,” he continued.
                        “If I had been, I shouldn’t be here to?night. My sister Louisa didn’t press
                        me to come. Strange as it may appear to you, Miss St. Quentin, I give you my
                        word she didn’t. Nor has she regarded me with an exactly favourable eye
                        since my arrival. I am not abashed, not a bit. But I can’t disguise from
                        myself that again I have gone, and been, and jolly well put my foot in
                        it.”
                    He whistled very softly under his breath.—“Oh! I have, I promise you, even on
                        the most modest computation, very extensively and comprehensively put my
                        foot in it!”
                    
                    “How?” inquired Honoria.
                    Lord Shotover’s confidences invariably amused her, and just now she welcomed
                        amusement. For, crossing her hostess’ boudoir, she had momentarily caught
                        sight of that which changed the speculative sarcasm of her meditations to
                        something approaching pain—namely a pretty, wide?eyed, childish face rising
                        from out a cloud of white tulle, white roses, and diamonds, the expression
                        of which had seemed to her distressingly remote from all the surrounding
                        gaiety and splendour. Actualities and appearances here were surely radically
                        at variance? And, now, she smilingly turned on her elbow and made brief
                        inquiry of her companion, promising herself good measure of superficial
                        entertainment which should serve to banish that pathetic countenance, and
                        allay her suspicion of a sorrowful happening which she was powerless alike
                        to hinder or to help.
                    Lord Shotover pushed his hands into his trousers pockets, leaned far back on
                        the sofa, turning his head so that he could look at her comfortably without
                        exertion and chuckling, a little, as he spoke.
                    “Well, you see,” he said, “I brought Decies. No, you’re right, I’m not shy,
                        for to do that was a bit of the most barefaced cheek. My sister Louisa
                        hadn’t asked him. Of course she hadn’t. At bottom she’s awfully afraid he
                        may still upset the apple?cart. But I told her I knew, of course, she had
                        intended to ask him, and that the letter must have got lost somehow in the
                        post, and that I knew how glad she’d be to have me rectify the little
                        mistake. My manner was not jaunty, Miss St. Quentin, or defiant—not a bit of
                        it. It was frank, manly, I should call it manly and pleasing. But Louisa
                        didn’t seem to see it that way somehow. She withered me, she scorched me,
                        reduced me to a cinder, though she never uttered one blessed syllable. The
                        hottest corner of the infernal regions resided in my sister’s eye at that
                        moment, and I resided in that hottest corner, I tell you. Of course I knew I
                        risked losing the last rag of her regard when I brought Decies. But you see,
                        poor chap, it is awfully rough on him. He was making the running all through
                        the winter. I could not help feeling for him, so I chucked discretion”—
                    “For the first and only time in your life,” put in Honoria gently. “And pray
                        who and what is this disturber of domestic peace, Decies?”
                    “Oh! you know the whole affair grows out of this engagement of my little
                        sister Connie’s. By the way, though, the Calmadys are great friends of
                        yours, aren’t they, Miss St. Quentin?”
                    The young man regarded her anxiously, fearful lest he should have endangered the agreeable intimacy of their
                        present relation by the introduction of an unpalatable subject of
                        conversation. Even in this semi?obscurity he perceived that her fine smile
                        had vanished, while the lines of her sensitive face took on a certain
                        rigidity and effect of sternness. Lord Shotover regretted that. For some
                        reason, he knew not what, she was displeased. He, like an ass, evidently had
                        blundered.
                    “I’m awfully sorry,” he began, “perhaps—perhaps”—
                    “Perhaps it is very impertinent for a mere looker?on like myself to have any
                        views at all about this marriage,” Honoria put in quickly.
                    “Bless you, no, it’s not,” he answered. “I don’t see how anybody can very
                        well be off having views about it—that’s just the nuisance. The whole thing
                        shouts, confound it. So you might just as well let me hear your views, Miss
                        St. Quentin. I should be awfully interested. They might help to straighten
                        my own out a bit.”
                    Honoria paused a moment, doubting how much of her thought it would be
                        justifiable to confide to her companion. A certain vein of knight?errantry
                        in her character inclined her to set lance in rest and ride forth, rather
                        recklessly, to redress human wrongs. But in redressing one wrong it too
                        often happens that another wrong—or something perilously approaching
                        one—must be inflicted. To save pain in one direction is, unhappily, to
                        inflict pain in the opposite one. Honoria was aware how warmly Lady Calmady
                        desired this marriage. She loved Lady Calmady. Therefore her loyalty was
                        engaged, and yet—
                    “I am no match?maker,” she said at last, “and so probably my view is
                        unnecessarily pessimistic. But I happened to see Lady Constance just now,
                        and I cannot pretend that she struck me as looking conspicuously happy.”
                    Lord Shotover flattened his shoulders against the back of the sofa, expanding
                        his chest and thrusting his hands still farther into his pockets with a
                        movement at once of anxiety and satisfaction.
                    “I don’t believe she is,” he asserted. “Upon my word you’re right. I don’t
                        believe she is. I doubted it from the first, and now I’m pretty certain. Of
                        course I know I’m a bad lot, Miss St. Quentin. I’ve been very little but a
                        confounded nuisance to my people ever since I was born. They’re all ten
                        thousand times better than I am, and they’re doing what they honestly think
                        right. All the same I believe they’re making a ghastly mistake. They’re
                        selling the poor, little girl against her will, that’s about the long and
                        short of it.”
                    He bowed himself together, looking at his companion from under his eyebrows, and speaking with more
                        seriousness than she had ever heard him yet speak.
                    “I tell you it makes me a little sick sometimes to see what excellent,
                        well?meaning people will do with girls in respect of marriage. Oh, good
                        Lord! it just does! But then a high moral tone doesn’t come quite gracefully
                        from me. I know that. I’m jolly well out of it. It’s not for me to preach.
                        And so I thought for once I’d act—defy authority, risk landing myself in a
                        worse mess than ever, and give Decies his chance. And I tell you he really
                        is a charming chap, a gentleman, you know, and a nice, clean?minded, decent
                        fellow—not like me, not a bit. He’s awfully hard hit too, and would be as
                        steady as old time for poor, little Con’s sake if”—
                    “Ah! now I begin to comprehend,” Honoria said.
                    “Yes, don’t you see, it’s a perfectly genuine, for?ever?and?ever?amen sort of
                        business.”
                    Lord Shotover leaned back once more, and turned a wonderfully pleasant, if
                        not pre?eminently responsible, countenance upon his companion.
                    “I never went in for that kind of racket myself, Miss St. Quentin,” he
                        continued. “Not being conspicuously faithful, I should only have made a
                            fiasco of it. But I give you my word
                        it touches me all the same when I do run across it. I think it’s awfully
                        lucky for a man to be made that way. And Decies is. So there seemed no help
                        for it. I had to chuck discretion, as I told you, and give him his
                        chance.”
                    He paused, and then asked with a somewhat humorous air of
                        self?depreciation:—“What do you think now, have I done more harm than good,
                        made confusion worse confounded, and played the fool generally?”
                    But again Honoria vouchsafed him no immediate reply. The meditative mood
                        still held her, and the present conversation offered much food for
                        meditation. Her companion’s confession of faith in true love, if you had the
                        good fortune to be born that way, had startled her. That the speaker enjoyed
                        the reputation of being something of a profligate lent singular point to
                        that confession. She had not expected it from Lord Shotover, of all men.
                        Ands as coming from him, the sentiment was in a high degree arresting and
                        interesting. Her own ideals, so far, had a decidedly anti?matrimonial
                        tendency; while being in love appeared to her a much overrated, if not
                        actively objectionable, condition. Personally she hoped to escape all
                        experience of it. Then her thought travelled back to Lady Calmady—the charm
                        of her personality, her sorrows, her splendid self?devotion, and to the object of that devotion—namely
                        Richard Calmady, a being of strange contrasts, at once maimed and beautiful,
                        a being from whom she—Honoria—shrank in instinctive repulsion while
                        unwillingly acknowledging that he exercised a permanent and intimate
                        fascination over her imagination. She dwelt, in quick pity, too, upon the
                        frightened, wide?eyed, childish face recently seen rising from out its
                        diaphanous cloud of tulle, the prettiness of it heightened by fair wealth of
                        summer roses and flash of costly diamonds, and upon Mr. Decies, the
                        whole?hearted, young, soldier lover, whose existence threatened such
                        dangerous complications in respect of the rest of this strangely assorted
                        company. Finally her meditative survey returned to its point of departure.
                        In thought she surveyed her present companion—his undeniable excellence of
                        sentiment and clear?seeing, his admittedly defective conduct in matters
                        ethical and financial. Never before had she been at such close quarters with
                        living and immediate human drama, and, notwithstanding her detachment, her
                        lofty indifference and high?spirited theories, she found it profoundly
                        agitating. She was sensible of being in collision with unknown and
                        incalculable forces. Instinctively she rose from her place on the sofa, and,
                        moving to the open window, looked out into the night.
                    Below, the Park, now silent and deserted, slept peacefully, as any expanse of
                        remote country pasture and woodland, in the mildly radiant moonlight. Here
                        and there were blottings of dark shadow cast by the clumps or avenues of
                        trees. Here and there the timid, yellow flame of gas lamps struggled to
                        assert itself against the all?embracing silver brightness. Here and there
                        windows glowed warm, set in the pale, glistering facades of the adjacent
                        houses. A cool, light wind, hailing from the direction of the unseen
                        Serpentine, stirred the hanging clusters of the pink geraniums that fell
                        over the curved lip of the stone vases, standing along the broad coping of
                        the balcony, and gently caressed the girl’s bare arms and shoulders.
                    Seen under these unaccustomed conditions familiar objects assumed a fantastic
                        aspect. For the night is a mighty magician, with power to render even the
                        weighty brick and stone, even the hard, uncompromising outlines, of a
                        monster, modern city, delicately elusive, mockingly tentative and
                        unsubstantial. Meanwhile, within, from all along the vista of crowded and
                        brilliantly illuminated rooms, came the subdued, yet confused and insistent,
                        sound of musical instruments, of many voices, many footsteps, the hush of
                        women’s trailing garments, the rise and fall of unceasing conversation. And
                        to Honoria, standing in this quiet, dimly?seen place, the sense of that
                        moonlit world without, and this gas and
                        candle?lit world within, increased the nameless agitation which infected
                        her. A haunting persuasion of the phantasmagoric character of all sounds
                        that saluted her ears, all sights that met her eyes, possessed her. A vast
                        uncertainty surrounded and pressed in on her; while those questionings of
                        appearances and actualities, of truth and falsehood, right and wrong,
                        justice and injustice, with which she had played idly earlier in the
                        evening, took on new and almost terrible proportions, causing her
                        intelligence, nay, her heart itself, to reach out, as never before, in
                        search of some sure rock and house of defence against the disintegrating
                        apprehension of universal instability and illusion.
                    “Ah! it is all very difficult, difficult to the point of alarm!” she
                        exclaimed suddenly, turning to Lord Shotover and looking him straight in the
                        face, with an unself?consciousness and desire of support so transparent that
                        that gentleman found himself at once delighted and slightly abashed.
                    “Bless my soul, but Ludovic is a lucky devil!” he said to
                        himself.—“What’s—what’s so beastly difficult, Miss St. Quentin?” he asked
                        aloud. And the sound of his cheery voice recalled Honoria to the normal
                        aspects of existence with almost humorous velocity. She smiled upon him.
                    “I really believe I don’t quite know,” she said. “Perhaps that the two
                        people, of whom we were speaking, really care for each other, and that this
                        engagement has come between them, and that you have chucked discretion and
                        given him his chance. Tell me, what sort of man is he—strong enough to make
                        the most of his chance when he’s got it?”
                    But at that moment Lord Shotover stepped forward, adroitly planting himself
                        right in front of her and thus screening her from observation.
                    “By George!” he said under his breath, in tones of mingled amusement and
                        consternation, “he’s making the most of his chance now, Miss St. Quentin,
                        and that most uncommonly comprehensively, unless I’m very much
                        mistaken.”
                    Her companion’s tall person and the folds of a heavy curtain, while screening
                        Honoria from observation, also, in great measure, obscured her view of the
                        room. Yet not so completely but that she saw two figures cross it, one
                        black, one white, those of a man and a girl. They were both speaking, the
                        man apparently pleading, the girl protesting and moving hurriedly the while,
                        as though in actual flight. She must have been moving blindly, at random,
                        for she stumbled against the outstanding, gilded leg of a consol table, set
                        against the farther wall, causing the
                        ornaments on it to rattle. And so doing, she gave a plaintive exclamation of
                        alarm, perhaps even of physical pain. Hearing which, that nameless
                        agitation, that sense of collision with unknown and incalculable forces,
                        seized hold on Honoria again, while Lord Shotover’s features contracted and
                        he turned his head sharply.
                    “By George!” he repeated under his breath.
                    But the girl recovered herself, and, followed by her companion,—he still
                        pleading, she still protesting,—passed by the farther window on to the
                        balcony and out of sight. There followed a period of embarrassed silence on
                        the part of the usually voluble Shotover, while his pleasant countenance
                        expressed a certain half?humorous concern.
                    “Really,. I’m awfully sorry,” he said. “I’d not the slightest intention of
                        landing you in the thick of the brown like this.”
                    “Or yourself either,” she replied, smiling; though, with that sense of
                        nameless agitation still upon her, her heart beat rather quick.
                    “Well, perhaps not. Between ourselves, moral courage isn’t my strong point.
                        There’s nothing I funk like a row. I say, what shall we do? Don’t you think
                        we’d better quietly clear out?”
                    But, just then, a sound caught Honoria’s ear before which all vague questions
                        of ultimate truth and falsehood, right and wrong fled away. Whatever might
                        savour of illusion, here was something real and actual, something pitiful,
                        moreover, arousing the spirit of knight?errantry in her, pushing her to lay
                        lance in rest and go forth, reckless of conventionalities, reckless even of
                        considerations of justice, to the succour of oppressed womanhood. What words
                        the man on the balcony, without, was saying, she could not
                        distinguish—whether cruel or kind; but that the young girl was weeping, with
                        the abandonment of long?resisted tears, she could not doubt.
                    “No, no, listen, Lord Shotover,” she exclaimed authoritatively. “Don’t you
                        hear? She is crying as if her poor heart would break. You must stay. If I
                        understand you rightly your sister has only got you to depend on. Whatever
                        happens you must stand by her and see her through.”
                    “Oh! but, my dear Miss St. Quentin”— The young man’s aspect was entertaining.
                        He looked at the floor, he looked at Honoria, he rubbed the back of his neck
                        with one hand as though there might be placed the seat of fortitude. “You’re
                        inviting me to put my head into the liveliest hornet’s nest. What the
                        deuce—excuse me—am I to say to her and all the rest of them? Decies, even, mayn’t quite
                        understand my interference and may resent it. I think it is very much safer,
                        all round, to let them—him and her—thrash it out between them, don’t you
                        know. I say though, what a beastly thing it is to hear a woman cry! I wish
                        to goodness we’d never come into this confounded place and let ourselves in
                        for it.”
                    As he spoke, Lord Shotover turned towards the door, meditating escape in the
                        direction of that brilliant vista of crowded rooms. But Honoria St. Quentin,
                        her enthusiasm once aroused, became inexorable. With her long, swinging
                        stride she outdistanced his hesitating steps, and stood, in the doorway, her
                        arms extended—as to stop a runaway horse—her clear eyes aglow as though a
                        lamp burned behind them, her pale, delicately cut face eloquent of very
                        militant charity. A spice of contempt, moreover, for his display of
                        pusillanimity was quite perceptible to Shotover in the expression of this
                        charming, modern angel, clad in a ball?dress, bearing a fan instead of the
                        traditional fiery?sword, who, so determinedly, barred the entrance of that
                        comfortably conventional, worldly paradise to which he, just now, so warmly
                        desired to regain admittance.
                    “No, no,” she said, with a certain vibration in her quiet voice, “you are not
                        to go! You are not to desert her. It would be unworthy, Lord Shotover. You
                        brought Mr. Decies here and so you are mainly responsible for the present
                        situation. And think, just think what it means. All the course of her life
                        will be affected by that which takes place in the next half?hour. You would
                        never cease to reproach yourself if things went wrong.”
                    “Shouldn’t I?” the young man said dubiously.
                    “Of course you wouldn’t,” Honoria asserted, “having it in your power to help,
                        and then shirking the responsibility! I won’t believe that of you. You are
                        better than that. For think how young she is, and pretty and dependent. She
                        may be driven to do some fatally, foolish thing if she’s left unsupported.
                        You must at least know what is going on. You are bound to do so. Moreover,
                        as a mere matter of courtesy, you can’t desert me and I intend to stay.”
                    “Do you, though?” faltered Lord Shotover, in tones curiously resembling his
                        father’s.
                    Honoria drew herself up proudly, almost scornfully.
                    “Yes, I shall stay,” she continued. “I am no match?maker. I have no
                        particular faith in or admiration for marriage”—
                    “Haven’t you, though?” said Lord Shotover. He was slightly surprised,
                        slightly amused, but to his credit be it stated that he put no equivocal construction upon the
                        young lady’s frank avowal. He felt a little sorry for Ludovic, that was all,
                        fearing the latter’s good fortune was less fully established than he had
                        supposed.
                    “No, I don’t believe very much in marriage—modern, upper?class marriage,” she
                        repeated. “And, just precisely on that account, it seems to me all the more
                        degrading and shameful that a girl should risk marrying the wrong man.
                        People talk about a broken engagement as though it was a disgrace. I can’t
                        see that. An unwilling, a—a—loveless marriage is the disgrace. And so at the
                        very church door I would urge and encourage a woman to turn back, if she
                        doubted, and have done with the whole thing.”
                    “Upon my word!” murmured Lord Shotover—The infinite variety of the feminine
                        outlook, the unqualified audacity of feminine action, struck him as
                        bewildering. Talk of women’s want of logic! It was their relentless
                        application of logic—as they apprehended it—which staggered him.
                    Honoria had come close to him. In her excitement she laid her fan on his
                        arm.
                    “Listen,” she said, “listen how Lady Constance is crying. Come—you must know
                        what is happening. You must comfort her.”
                    The young man thrust his hands into his pockets with an air of good?humoured
                        and despairing resignation.
                    “All right,” he replied, “only I tell you what it is, Miss St. Quentin,
                        you’ve got to come too. I refuse to be deserted.”
                    “I have not the smallest intention of deserting you,” Honoria said. “Even yet
                        discretion, though so lately chucked, might return to you. And then you
                        might cut and run, don’t you know.”
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII
                    RECORDING THE ASTONISHING VALOUR DISPLAYED BY A CERTAIN SMALL
                        MOUSE IN A CORNER
                    AS Honoria St. Quentin and the reluctant Shotover stepped, side by
                        side, from the warmth and dimness obtaining in the anteroom, into the
                        pleasant coolness of the moonlit balcony, Lady Constance Quayle, altogether
                        forgetful of her usual careful civility and pretty correctness of demeanour,
                        uttered an inarticulate cry—a cry, indeed, hardly human in its abandon
                            and unreasoning anguish, resembling
                        rather the shriek of the doubling hare as the pursuing greyhound nips it
                        across the loins. Regardless of all her dainty finery of tulle, and roses,
                        and flashing diamonds, she flung herself forward, face downwards, across the
                        coping of the balustrade, her bare arms outstretched, her hands clasped
                        above her head. Mr. Decies, blue?eyed, black?haired, smooth of skin, looking
                        noticeably long and lithe in his close?fitting, dress clothes, made a rapid
                        movement as though to lay hold on her and bear her bodily away. Then,
                        recognising the futility of any such attempt, he turned upon the intruders,
                        his high?spirited, Celtic face drawn with emotion, his attitude rather
                        dangerously warlike.
                    “What do you want?” he demanded hotly.
                    “My dear good fellow,” Lord Shotover began, with the most assuaging air of
                        apology, “I assure you the very last thing I?we—I mean I—want is to be a
                        nuisance. Only Miss St. Quentin thought—in fact, Decies, don’t you see—dash
                        it all, you know, there seemed to be some sort of worry going on out here
                        and so”—
                    But Honoria did not wait for the conclusion of elaborate explanations, for
                        that cry and the unrestraint of the girl’s attitude not only roused, but
                        shocked her. It was not fitting that any man, however kindly or even
                        devoted, should behold this well?bred, modest and gentle, young maiden in
                        her present extremity. So she swept past Mr. Decies and bent over Lady
                        Constance Quayle, raised her, strove to soothe her agitation, speaking in
                        tones of somewhat indignant tenderness.
                    But, though deriving a measure of comfort from the steady arm about her
                        waist, from the strong, protective presence, from the rather stern beauty of
                        the face looking down into hers, Lady Constance could not master her
                        agitation. The train had left the metals, so to speak, and the result was
                        confusion dire. A great shame held her, a dislocation of mind. She suffered
                        that loneliness of soul which forms so integral a part of the misery of all
                        apparently irretrievable disaster, whether moral or physical, and places the
                        victim of it, in imagination at all events, rather terribly beyond the
                        pale.
                    “Oh!” she sobbed, “you ought not to be so kind to me. I am very wicked. I
                        never supposed I could be so wicked. What shall I do? I am so frightened at
                        myself and at everything. I did not recognise you. I didn’t see it was only
                        Shotover.”
                    “Well, but now you do see, my dear Con, it’s only me” that gentleman
                        remarked, with a cheerful disregard of grammar. “And so you mustn’t upset yourself any more. It’s
                        awfully bad for you, and uncomfortable for everybody else, don’t you know.
                        You must try to pull yourself together a bit and we’ll help you—of course,
                        I’ll help you. We’ll all help you, of course we will, and pull you through
                        somehow.”
                    But the girl only lamented herself the more piteously.
                    “Oh no, Shotover, you must not be so kind to me! You couldn’t, if you knew
                        how wicked I have been.”
                    “Couldn’t I?” Lord Shotover remarked, not without a touch of humorous pathos.
                        “Poor little Con!”
                    “Only, only please do not tell Louisa. It would be too dreadful if she
                        knew—she, and Alicia, and the others. Don’t tell her, and I will be good. I
                        will be quite good, indeed I will.”
                    “Bless me, my dear child, I won’t tell anybody anything. To begin with I
                        don’t know anything to tell.”
                    The girl’s voice had sunk away into a sob. She shuddered, letting her pretty,
                        brown head fall back against Honoria St. Quentin’s bare shoulder,—while the
                        moonlight glinted on her jewels and the night wind swayed the hanging
                        clusters of the pink geraniums. Along with the warmth and scent of flowers,
                        streaming outward through the open windows, came a confused sound of many
                        voices, of discreet laughter, mingled with the wailing sweetness of violins.
                        Then the pleading, broken, childish voice took up its tale again:—
                    “I will be good. I know I have promised, and I have let him give me a number
                        of beautiful things. He has been very kind to me, because he is clever, and
                        of course I am stupid. But he has never been impatient with me. And I am not
                        ungrateful, indeed, Shotover, I am not. It was only for a minute I was
                        wicked enough to think of doing it. But Mr. Decies told me he—asked
                        me—and—and we were so happy at Whitney in the winter. And it seemed too hard
                        to give it all up, as he said it was true. But I will be good, indeed I
                        will. Really it was only for a minute I thought of it. I know I have
                        promised. Indeed, I will make no fuss. I will be good. I will marry Richard
                        Calmady.”
                    “But this is simply intolerable!” Honoria said in a low voice.
                    She held herself tall and straight, looking gallant yet pure, austere even,
                        as some pictured Jeanne d’Arc, a great singleness of purpose, a high courage
                        of protest, an effect at once of fearless challenge and of command in her
                        bearing.—“Is it not a scandal,” she went on, “that in a civilised country,
                        at this time of day, a woman should be allowed, actually forced, to suffer
                        so much? You must not permit this
                        martyrdom to be completed—you can’t!”
                    As she spoke Decies watched her keenly. Who this stately, young lady—so
                        remarkably unlike the majority of Lord Shotover’s intimate, feminine
                        acquaintance—might be, he did not know. But he discerned in her an ally and
                        a powerful one.
                    “Yes,” he said impulsively, “you are right. It is a martyrdom and a
                        scandalous one. It’s worse than murder, it’s sacrilege. It’s not like any
                        ordinary marriage. I don’t want to be brutal, but it isn’t. There’s
                        something repulsive in it, something unnatural.”
                    The young man looked at Honoria, and read in her expression a certain
                        agreement and encouragement.
                    “You know it, Shotover—you know it just as well as I do. And that justified
                        me in attempting what I suppose I would not otherwise have felt it
                        honourable to attempt.—Look here, Shotover, I will tell you what has just
                        happened. I would have had to tell you to?morrow, in any case, if we had
                        carried the plan out. But I suppose I have no alternative but to tell you
                        now, since you’ve come.”
                    He ranged himself in line with Miss St. Quentin, his back against one of the
                        big, stone vases. He struggled honestly to keep both temper and emotion
                        under control, but a rather volcanic energy was perceptible in him.
                    “I love Lady Constance,” he said. “I have told her and—and she cares for me.
                        I am not a Crœsus like Calmady. But I am not a pauper. I have enough to keep
                        a wife in manner suitable to her position and my own. When my uncle, Ulick
                        Decies, dies—which I hope he’ll not hurry to do, since. I am very fond of
                        him—there’ll be the Somersetshire property addition to my own dear, old
                        place in County Cork. And your sister simply hates this marriage”—
                    “Lord bless me, my dear fellow, so do I!” Lord Shotover put in with evident
                        sincerity.
                    “And so, when at last I had spoken freely, I asked her to”—
                    But the young girl cowered down, hiding her face in Honoria St. Quentin’s
                        bosom.
                    “Oh! don’t say it again—don’t say it,” she implored. “It was wicked of me to
                        listen to you even for a minute. I ought to have stopped you at once and
                        sent you away. It was very wrong of me to listen, and talk to you, and tell
                        you all that I did. But everything is so strange, and I have been so
                        miserable. I never supposed anybody could ever be so miserable. And I knew
                        it was ungrateful of me, and so, I dared not tell anybody. I would have told papa, but Louisa never let me
                        be alone with him. She said papa indulged me, and made me selfish and
                        fanciful, and so I have never seen him for more than a little while. And I
                        have been so frightened.”—She raised her head, gazing wide?eyed first at
                        Miss St. Quentin and then at her brother. “I have thought such dreadful
                        things. I must be very bad. I wanted to run away. I wanted to die”—
                    “There, you hear, you hear,” Decies cried hoarsely, spreading abroad his
                        hands, in sudden violence of appeal to Honoria. “For God’s sake help us! I
                        am not aware whether you are a relation, or a friend, or what. But I am
                        convinced you can help, if only you choose to do so. And I tell you she is
                        just killing herself over this accursed marriage. Someone’s got at her and
                        talked her into some wild notion of doing her duty, and marrying money for
                        the sake of her family”—
                    “Oh, I say, damn it all!” Lord Shotover exclaimed, smitten with genuine
                        remorse.
                    “And so she believes she’s committing the seven deadly sins, and I don’t know
                        what besides, because she rebels against this marriage and is unhappy. Tell
                        her it’s absurd, it’s horrible, that she should do what she loathes and
                        detests. Tell her this talk about duty is a blind, and a fiction. Tell her
                        she isn’t wicked. Why, God in heaven, if we were none of us more wicked than
                        she is, this poor old world would be so clean a place that the holy angels
                        might walk barefoot along the Piccadilly pavement there, outside, without
                        risking to soil so much as the hem of their garments! Make her understand
                        that the only sin for her is to do violence to her nature by marrying a man
                        she’s afraid of, and for whom she does not care. I don’t want to play a low
                        game on Sir Richard Calmady and steal that which belongs to him. But she
                        doesn’t belong to him—she is mine, just my own. I knew that from the first
                        day I came to Whitney, and looked her in the face, Shotover. And she knows
                        it too, only she’s been terrorised with all this devil’s talk of duty.”
                    So far the words had poured forth volubly, as in a torrent. Now the speaker’s
                        voice dropped, and they came slowly, defiantly, yet without hesitation.
                    “And so I asked her to go away with me, now, to?night, and marry me
                        to?morrow. I can make her happy—oh, no fear about that! And she would have
                        consented and gone. We’d have been away by now—if you and this lady had not
                        come just when you did, Shotover.”
                    The gentleman addressed whistled very softly.
                    “Would you, though?” he said, adding meditatively:—
                    
                    “By George now, who’d have thought of Connie going the pace like that!”
                    “Oh, Shotover, never tell, promise me you will never tell them!” the poor
                        child cried again. “I know it was wicked, but”—
                    “No, no, you are mistaken there,” Honoria put in, holding her still closer.
                        “You were tempted to take a rather desperate way out of your difficulties.
                        It would have been unwise, but there was nothing wicked in it. The wrong
                        thing is—as Mr. Decies tells you—to marry without love, and so make all your
                        life a lie, by pretending to give Richard Calmady that which you do not, and
                        cannot, give him.”
                    Then the young soldier broke in resolutely again.
                    “I tell you I asked her to go away, and I ask her again now”?
                    “The deuce you do!” Lord Shotover exclaimed, his sense of amusement getting
                        the better alike of astonishment and of personal regrets.
                    “Only now I ask you to sanction her going, Shotover. And I ask you”—he turned
                        to Miss St. Quentin—“to come with her. I am not even sure of your name, but
                        I know, by all that you’ve said and done in the last half?hour, I can be
                        very sure of you. And, I perceive, that if you come nobody will dare to say
                        anything unpleasant—there’ll be nothing, indeed, to be said.”
                    Honoria smiled. The magnificent egoism of mankind in love struck her as
                        distinctly diverting. Yet she had a very kindly feeling towards this
                        black?haired, bright?eyed, energetic, young lover. He was in deadly
                        earnest—to the removing even of mountains. And he had need to be so, for
                        that mountains immediately blocked the road to his desires was evident even
                        to her enthusiastic mind. She looked across compellingly at Lord Shotover.
                        Let him speak first. She needed time, at this juncture, in which to arrange
                        her ideas and to think. 
                    “My dear good fellow,” that gentleman began obediently, patting Decies on the
                        shoulder, “I’m all on your side. I give you my word I am, and I’ve reason to
                        believe my father will be so too. But you see, an elopement—specially in
                        ’our sort of highly respectable, hum?drum family—is rather a strong order.
                        Upon my honour it is, you know, Decies. And, even though kindly countenanced
                        by Miss St. Quentin, and sanctioned by me, it would make a precious
                        undesirable lot of talk. It really is a rather irregular fashion of
                        conducting the business you see. And then—advice I always give others and
                        only wish I could always remember to take
                        myself—it’s very much best to be off with the old love before you’re on with
                        the new.”
                    “Yes, yes,” Miss St. Quentin put in with quick decision. “Lord Shotover has
                        laid his finger on the heart of the matter. It is just that.—Lady
                        Constance’s engagement to Richard Calmady must be cancelled before her
                        engagement to you, Mr. Decies, is announced. For her to go away with you
                        would be to invite criticism, and put herself hopelessly in the wrong. She
                        must not put herself in the wrong. Let me think! There must be some way by
                        which we can avoid that.”
                    An exultation, hitherto unexperienced by her, inspired Honoria St. Quentin.
                        Her attitude was slightly unconventional. She sat on the stone balustrade,
                        with long?limbed, lazy grace, holding the girl’s hand, forgetful of herself,
                        forgetful, in a degree, of appearances, concerned only with the problem of
                        rescue presented to her. The young man’s honest, wholehearted devotion, the
                        young girl’s struggle after duty and her piteous despair, nay, the close
                        contact of that soft, maidenly body that she had so lately held against her
                        in closer, more intimate, embrace than she had ever held anything human
                        before, aroused a new class of sentiment, a new order of emotion, within
                        her. She realised, for the first time, the magnetism, the penetrating and
                        poetic splendour of human love. To witness the spectacle of it, to be thus
                        in touch with it, excited her almost as sailing a boat in a heavy sea, or
                        riding to hounds in a stiff country, excited her. And it followed that now,
                        while she perched aloft boylike, on the balustrade, her delicate beauty took
                        on a strange effulgence, a something spiritual, mysterious, elusive, and yet
                        dazzling as the moonlight which bathed her charming figure. Seeing which, it
                        must be owned that Lord Shotover’s attitude towards her ceased to be
                        strictly fraternal, while the attractions of ladies more fair and kind than
                        wise paled very sensibly.
                    “I wish I hadn’t been such a fool in my day, and run amuck with my chances,”
                        he thought.
                    But Miss St. Quentin was altogether innocent of his observation or any such
                        thinkings. She looked up suddenly, her face irradiated by an exquisite
                        smile.
                    “Yes, I have it,” she cried. “I see the way clear.”
                    “But I can’t tell them,” broke in Lady Constance.
                    Honoria’s hand closed down on hers reassuringly.
                    “No,” she said, “you shall not tell them. And Lord Shotover shall not tell
                        them. Sir Richard Calmady shall tell Lord
                        Fallowfeild that he wishes to be released from his engagement, as he
                        believes both you and he will be happier apart. Only you must be brave, both
                        for your own sake, and for Mr. Decies’, and for Richard Calmady’s sake
                        also.—Lady Constance,” she went on, with a certain gentle authority, “do you
                        want to go back to Whitney to?morrow, or next day, all this nightmare of an
                        unhappy marriage done away with and gone? Well, then, you must come and see
                        Sir Richard Calmady to?night, and, like an honourable woman, tell him the
                        whole truth. It must be done at once, or your courage may fail. We will come
                        with you?Lord Shotover and I”—
                    “Good Lord, will we though!” the young man ejaculated, while the girl’s
                        great, heifer’s eyes grew strained with wonder at this astounding
                        announcement.
                    “I know it will be rather terrible,” Honoria continued calmly. “But it is a
                        matter of a quarter of an hour, as against a lifetime, and of honour as
                        against a lie. So it’s worth while, don’t you think so, when your whole
                        future, and Mr. Decies’”—she pressed the soft hand again steadily—“is at
                        stake? You must be brave now, and tell him the truth—just simply that you do
                        not love him enough—that you have tried,—you have, I know you have done
                        that,—but that you have failed, that you love someone else, and that
                        therefore you beg him, in mercy, before it is too late, to set you
                        free.”
                    Fascinated both by her appearance and by the simplicity of her trenchant
                        solution of the difficulty, Lord Shotover stared at the speaker. Her faith
                        was infectious. Yet it occurred to him that all women, good and bad, are at
                        least alike in this—that their methods become radically unscrupulous when
                        they find themselves in a tight place.
                    “It is a fine plan. It ought to work, for—cripple or not—poor Calmady’s a
                        gentleman,” he said, slowly. “But doesn’t it seem just a trifle rough, Miss
                        St. Quentin, to ask him to be his own executioner?”
                    Honoria had slipped down from the balustrade, and stood erect in the
                        moonlight.
                    “I think not,” she replied. “The woman pays, as a rule. Lady Constance has
                        paid already quite heavily enough, don’t you think so? Now we will have the
                        exception that proves the rule. The man shall pay whatever remains of the
                        debt. But we must not waste time. It is not late yet, we shall still find
                        him up, and my brougham is here. I told Lady Aldham I should be home fairly
                        early. Get a cloak, Lady Constance, and meet us in the hall. I suppose you
                        can go down by some back way so as to
                        avoid meeting people. Lord Shotover, will you take me to say good?night to
                        your sister, Lady Louisa?”
                    The young man fairly chuckled.
                    “And you, Mr. Decies, must stay and dance.”—She smiled upon him very sweetly.
                        “I promise you it will come through all right, for, as Lord Shotover says,
                        whatever his misfortunes may be, Richard Calmady is a gentleman.—Ah! I hope
                        you are going to be very happy. Good?bye.”
                    Decies’ black head went down over her hand, and he kissed it impulsively.
                    “Good?bye,” he said, the words catching a little in his throat. “When the
                        time comes, may you find the man to love you as you deserve—though I doubt
                        if there’s such a man living, or dead either, for that matter! God bless
                        you.”
                    Some half?hour later Honoria stood among the holland?shrouded furniture in
                        Lady Calmady’s sitting?room in Lowndes Square. The period of exalted
                        feeling, of the conviction of successful attainment, was over, and her heart
                        beat somewhat painfully. For she had had time, by now, to realise the
                        surprising audacity of her own proceedings. Lord Shotover’s parley with
                        Richard Calmady’s man?servant, on the doorstep, had brought that home to
                        her, placing what had seemed obvious, as a course of action to her fervid
                        imagination, in quite a new light. Sir Richard Calmady was at home? He was
                        still up?—To that, yes. Would he see Lady Constance Quayle upon urgent
                        business?—To that again, yes—after a rather lengthy delay, while the valet,
                        inscrutable, yet evidently highly critical, made inquiries.—The trees in the
                        square had whispered together uncomfortably, while the two young ladies
                        waited in the carriage. And Lord Shotover’s shadow, which had usually, very
                        surely, nothing in the least portentous about it, lay queerly, three ways at
                        once, in varying degrees of density, across the grey pavement in the
                        conflicting gas and moon?light.
                    And now, as she stood among the shrouded furniture, which appeared oddly
                        improbable in shape seen in the flickering of two hastily?lighted candles,
                        Honoria could hear Shotover walking back and forth, patiently, on that same
                        grey pavement outside. She was overstrained by the emotions and events of
                        the past hours. Small matters compelled her attention. The creaking of a
                        board, the rustle of a curtain, the silence even of this large, but
                        half?inhabited, house, were to her big with suggestion, disquietingly
                        replete with possible meaning, of exaggerated importance to her anxiously
                        listening ears.
                    Lord Shotover had stopped walking. He was talking to the coachman. Honoria entertained a conviction that,
                        in the overflowing of his good?nature, he talked—sooner or later—to every
                        soul whom he met. She derived almost childish comfort from the knowledge of
                        the near neighbourhood of that eminently good?natured presence. Lord
                        Shotover’s very obvious faults faded from her remembrance. She estimated him
                        only by his size, his physical strength, his large indulgence of all
                        weaknesses—including his own. He constituted a link between her and things
                        ordinary and average, for which she was rather absurdly thankful at this
                        juncture. For the minutes passed slowly, very slowly. It must be getting on
                        for half an hour since little Lady Constance, trembling and visibly
                        affrighted, had passed out of sight, and the door of the smoking?room had
                        closed behind her. The nameless agitation which possessed her earlier that
                        same evening returned upon Honoria St. Quentin. But its character had
                        suffered change. The questioning of the actual, the suspicion of universal
                        illusion, had departed; and in its place she suffered alarm of the concrete,
                        of the incalculable force of human passion, and of a manifestation of
                        tragedy in some active and violent form. She did not define her own fears,
                        but they surrounded her nevertheless, so that the slightest sound made her
                        start.
                    For, indeed, how slowly the minutes did pass! Lord Shotover was walking
                        again. The horse rattled its bit, and pawed the ground impatient of delay.
                        Though lofty, the room appeared close and hot, with drawn blinds and shut
                        windows. Honoria began to move about restlessly, threading her way between
                        the pieces of shrouded furniture. A chalk drawing of Lady Calmady stood on
                        an easel in the far corner. The portrait emphasised the sweetness and
                        abiding pathos, rather than the strength, of the original; and Honoria,
                        standing before it, put her hands over her eyes. For the pictured face
                        seemed to plead with and reproach her. Then a swift fear took her of
                        disloyalty, of hastiness, of self?confidence trenching on cruelty. She had
                        announced, rather arrogantly, that whatever balance remained to be paid, in
                        respect of Sir Richard and Lady Constance Quayle’s proposed marriage, should
                        be paid by the man. But would the man, in point of fact, pay it? Would it
                        not, must it not, be paid, eventually, by this other noble and much enduring
                        woman—whom she had called her friend, and towards whom she played the part,
                        as she feared, of betrayer? In her hot espousal of Lady Constance’s cause
                        she had only saved one woman at the expense of another—Oh! how hot the room
                        grew! Suffocating—Lord Shotover’s steps died away in the distance. She could
                            look Lady Calmady in the face no more.
                        Secure in her own self?conceit and vanity, she had betrayed her friend.
                    Suddenly the sharp peal of a bell, the opening of a door, the dragging of
                        silken skirts, and the hurrying of footsteps.—Honoria gathered up her
                        somewhat scattered courage and swung out into the hall. Lady Constance
                        Quayle came towards her, groping, staggering, breathless, her face convulsed
                        with weeping. But to this, for the moment, Miss St. Quentin paid small heed.
                        For, at the far end of the hall, a bright light streamed out from the open
                        doorway. And in the full glare of it stood a young man—his head, with its
                        cap of close?cropped curls, proudly distinguished as that of some classic
                        hero, his features the beautiful features of Katherine Calmady, his height
                        but two?thirds the height a man of his make should be, his face drawn and
                        livid as that of a corpse, his arms hanging down straight at his sides, his
                        hands only just not touching the marble quarries of the floor on either side
                        of him.
                    Honoria uttered an exclamation of uncontrollable pity and horror, caught
                        Constance Quayle by the arm, and hurried out into the moonlit square to the
                        waiting carriage. Lord Shotover flung away the end of his cigar and strolled
                        towards them.
                    “Got through, fixed it all right—eh, Connie? Bravo—that’s grand!—Oh, you
                        needn’t tell me! I can imagine it’s been a beastly piece of work, but anyway
                        it’s over now. You must go home and go to bed, and I’ll account for you
                        somehow to Louisa. My mind’s becoming quite inventive to?night, I promise
                        you.—There, get in—try to pull yourself together. Miss St. Quentin, upon my
                        word I don’t know how to thank you. You’ve been magnificent, and put us
                        under an everlasting obligation, Con and Decies, and my father and me.—Nice
                        night isn’t it? You’ll put us down in Albert Gate? All right. A thousand
                        thanks.—Yes, I’ll go on the box again. You haven’t much room for my legs
                        among all those flounces. Bless me, it occurs to me I’m getting confoundedly
                        hungry. I shall be awfully glad of some supper.”
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VIII
                    A MANIFESTATION OF THE SPIRIT
                    BROCKHURST HOUSE had slumbered all day long in the steady warmth of
                        the July sun. The last three weeks had been rainless, so that the short turf
                        of the uplands began to grow crisp and discoloured, while the resinous scent
                        of the fir forest, at once stimulating and soothing, was carried afar out
                        over the sloping cornfields and low?lying pastures. Above the stretches of
                        purple?budding heather and waste sandy places, upon the moors, the heat?haze
                        danced and quivered as do vapours arising from a furnace. Along the under
                        side of the great woods, and in the turn of the valleys, shadows lingered,
                        which were less actual shadows than blottings of blue light. The birds, busy
                        feeding wide?mouthed, hungry fledglings, had mostly ceased from song. But
                        the drowsy hum of bees and chirrup of grasshoppers was continuous, and told,
                        very pleasantly, of the sunshine and large plenty reigning out of doors.
                    For Katherine the day in question had passed in Martha?like occupations.—A
                        day of organising, of ordering and countermanding, a day of much detail,
                        much interviewing of heads of departments, a day of meeting respectful
                        objections, enlightening thick understandings, gently reducing decorously
                        opposing wills. Commissariat, transport, housing of guests, and the servants
                        of guests—all these entered into the matter of the coming wedding. To
                        compass the doing of all things, not only decently and in order, but
                        handsomely, and with a becoming dignity, this required time and thought. And
                        so, it was not until after dinner that Katherine found herself at leisure to
                        cease taking thought for the morrow. Too tired to rest herself by reading,
                        she wandered out on the troco?ground followed by Camp.
                    London had not altogether suited the bull?dog as the summer wore on. Now, in
                        his old age, so considerable a change of surroundings put him about both in
                        body and mind. Seeing which, Richard had begged his mother to take the dog
                        with her on leaving town. Camp benefited, unquestionably, by his return to
                        country air. His coat stared less. He carried his ears and tail with more
                        sprightliness and conviction. Still he fretted after his absent master, and
                        followed Katherine’s footsteps very closely, his forehead more than ever
                        wrinkled and his unsightly mouth pensive notwithstanding its perpetual grin.
                        He attended her now, squatting beside her
                        when she paused, trotting slowly beside her when she moved, a silent,
                        persistent, and, as it might seem, somewhat fatefully faithful
                        companion.
                    Yet the occasion was to all appearances far from fateful, the night and the
                        scene, alike, being very fair. The moon had not yet risen, but a brightness
                        behind the sawlike edge of the fir woods eastward heralded its coming, while
                        sufficient light yet remained in the western and northern sky for the mass
                        of the house, its ruddy walls and ranges of mullioned windows, its pierced,
                        stone parapet and stacks of slender, twisted chimneys, to be seen with a
                        low?toned distinctness of form and colour infinitely charming. Soft and rich
                        as velvet, it rose, with a certain noble serenity, above its terraces and
                        fragrant, red?walled gardens, under the enormous dome of the tranquil,
                        far?off, evening sky.
                    Every aspect of this place, in rain and shine, summer and winter, from dawn
                        to dark and round to dawn again, was familiar to Katherine Calmady. Coming
                        here first, as a bride, the homely splendour of the house, and the gladness
                        of its situation crowning the ridge of hill, appealed strongly to her
                        imagination. Later it sheltered her long sorrow, following so hard on the
                        heels of her brief joy. But, in both alike, during all the vicissitudes of
                        her thought and of her career, the face of Brockhurst remained as that of a
                        friend, kindly, beneficent, increasingly trusted and beloved. And so she had
                        come to know every stick and stone of it, from spacious, vaulted cellar to
                        equally spacious, low?roofed, sun?dried attic—the outlook from each window,
                        the character of each room, the turn of each stairway, the ample proportions
                        of each lobby and stair?head, all the pleasant scents, and sounds, and
                        colours, that haunted it both within and without. It might have been
                        supposed that after so many years of affectionate observation and commerce,
                        Brockhurst could have no new word in its tongue, could hold no further
                        self?revelation, for Lady Calmady. Yet, as she passed now from the arcaded
                        garden?hall, supporting the eastern bay of the Long Gallery, on to the
                        level, green square of the troco?ground, and stood gazing out over the
                        downward sloping park—the rough, short turf of it dotted with ancient thorn
                        trees and broken by beds of bracken and dog?roses—to the Long Water,
                        glistening like some giant mirror some quarter?mile distant in the valley,
                        she became sensible of a novel element in her present relation to this
                        place.
                    For the first time, in all her long experience, she was at Brockhurst quite
                        alone. The house was vacant even of a friend. For Julius March had, rather
                        to Katherine’s surprise, selected just
                        this moment for the paying of his yearly visit to a certain college friend,
                        a scholarly and godly person, now rector of a sleepy, country parish away in
                        the heart of the great Midlandshire grasslands. Katherine experienced a
                        momentary sense of injury at his going. Yet perhaps it was as well. Between
                        the turmoil of the past London season, the coming turmoil of the wedding and
                        the large and serious issues which that wedding involved, this time of
                        solitude might be salutary. To Katherine, just now, it seemed as a bridge
                        carrying her over from one way of life to another. A but slightly known
                        country lay ahead. Solitude and self?recollection are good for the soul if
                        it would possess itself in peace. The fair brightness of the Indwelling
                        Light had not been obscured in her during these months devoted to the world
                        and to society. But it was inevitable that her consciousness of it, and
                        consequently its clear?shining, should have suffered diminution at times.
                        The eager pressure of things to be done, things to be seen, of much
                        conversation, the varied pageant of modern life perpetually presented to her
                        eyes and her intelligence, could not but crowd out the spiritual order
                        somewhat. Of late she had had only time to smile upon her God in passing,
                        instead of spending long hours within the courts of His temple. This she
                        knew. It troubled her a little. She desired to return to a condition of more
                        complete self?collectedness. And so, the first movement of surprise past,
                        she hailed her solitude as a means of grace, and strove, in sweet sincerity,
                        to make good use of it.
                    And yet—since the human heart, if sound and wholesome, hungers, even when
                        penetrated by godward devotion, for some fellow?creature on whom to expend
                        its tenderness—Katherine, just now, regretted to be alone. The scene was so
                        beautiful, she would gladly have had someone look on it beside herself, and
                        share its charm. Then thoughts of the future obtruded themselves. How would
                        little Constance Quayle view Brockhurst? Would it claim her love? Would she
                        embrace the spirit of it, and make it not only the home of her fair, young
                        body, but the home of her guileless heart? Katherine yearned in spirit over
                        this girl standing on the threshold of all the deeper experiences of a
                        woman’s life, of those amazing revelations which marriage holds for an
                        innocent and modest maiden.—But oh! how lovely are such revelations when the
                        lover is also the beloved!
                    Katherine moved on a few paces. The thought of all that, even now at
                        forty?eight, cut her a little too sharply. It is not wise to call up visions
                        of joys that are dead. She would think of something else, so she told
                        herself, as she paused in her rustling grey dress upon the dry, gravel path,
                        the surface of which still sensibly held
                        the warmth of the sun, while Camp squatted soberly on his haunches beside
                        her. But, at first, only worrying thoughts responded to her call.—It was not
                        quite kind, surely, of Julius to have left home just now. It was a little
                        inconsiderate of him. If she dwelt on the thought of that, clearly it would
                        vex her—so it must be banished. Reynolds, the housekeeper, had really been
                        very perverse about the turning of the two larger china?closets into extra
                        dressing?rooms for the week of the wedding, and Clara showed an inclination
                        to back her up in opposition. Of course the maids would give in—they always
                        did, and that without any subsequent attempt at small reprisals. Still the
                        thought of that, too, was annoying and must be banished.—At dinner she had
                        received a singular letter from Honoria St. Quentin. It contained what
                        appeared to Katherine as rather over?urgent protestations of affection and
                        offers of service, if at any future time she—the writer—could be of use. The
                        letter was charming in its slight extravagance. But it struck Katherine as
                        incomprehensibly penitent in tone—the letter of one who has not treated a
                        friend quite loyally and is hot with anxiety to atone. It was dated this
                        morning too, and must have been posted at some surprisingly early hour to
                        have thus reached Brockhurst by the day mail. Lady Calmady did not quite
                        relish the missive, somehow, notwithstanding its affection. It lacked the
                        perfection of personal dignity which had pleased her heretofore in Honoria
                        St. Quentin. She felt vaguely disappointed. And it followed that this
                        thought, therefore, must go along with the rest. For she refused to be
                        disquieted. She would compel herself to be at peace.
                    So, putting these small sources of discomfort from her, as unworthy both of
                        her better understanding and of this fair hour and fair place, Katherine
                        yielded herself wholly to the influences of her surroundings. The dew was
                        rising—promise of another hot, clear day to?morrow—and along with it rose a
                        fragrance of wild thyme from the grass slopes immediately below. That
                        fragrance mingled with the richer scents of jasmine, full?cupped, July
                        roses, scarlet, trumpet?flowered honeysuckle, tall lilies, and great wealth
                        of heavy?headed, clove carnations, veiling the red walls or set in the trim
                        borders of the gardens behind. A strangely belated nightingale still sang in
                        the big, Portugal laurel beside the quaint, pepper?pot summer?house in the
                        far corner of the troco?ground, where the twenty?foot, brick wall dips, in
                        steps of well?set masonry, to the grey, three?foot balustrade. She never
                        remembered to have heard one sing so late in the summer. The bird was
                        answered, moreover, by another singer from the coppice, bordering the
                            trout? stream which feeds the Long
                        Water, away across the valley. In each case the song was, note for note, the
                        same. But the chant of the near bird was hotly urgent in its passion of
                        “wooing and winning;” while the song of the answerer came chastened and
                        etherealised by distance. A fox barked sharply on the left, out in the
                        Warren. And the churring of the night?hawks, as they flitted hither and
                        thither over the beds of bracken and dog?roses, like gigantic moths, on
                        swift, silent wings, formed a continuous accompaniment, as of a
                        spinning?wheel, to the other sounds.
                    Never, as she watched and listened, had the genius of Brockhurst appeared
                        more potent or more enthralling. For a space she rested in it, asking
                        nothing beyond that which sight and hearing could give. It was very good to
                        breathe the scented air and be lulled by the inarticulate music of nature.
                        It was good to cease from self and from all individual striving, to become a
                        part merely of the universal movement of things, a link merely in the mighty
                        chain of universal being. But such an impersonal attitude of mind cannot
                        last long, least of all in the case of a woman! Katherine’s heart awoke and
                        cried again for some human object on which to expend itself, some kindred
                        intelligence to meet and reflect her own. Ah, were she but better, more holy
                        and more wise, these cravings would doubtless not assail her! The worship of
                        the Indwelling Light would suffice, and she would cease from desire of the
                        love of any creature. But she had not journeyed so far upon the road of
                        perfection yet, as she sadly told herself. Far from it. The nightingale sang
                        on, sang of love, not far hence, not far above, not within the spirit only,
                        but here, warm, immediate, and individual. And, do what she would, the song
                        brought to her mind such love, as she herself had known it during the few
                        golden months of her marriage—of meetings at night, sweet and sacred; of
                        partings, sweet and sacred too, at morning; of secret delights; of moments,
                        at once pure and voluptuous, known only to virtuous lovers. It was not often
                        that remembrance of all this came back to her, save as a faint echo of a
                        once clear?sounding voice. Indeed she had supposed it all laid away forever,
                        done with, even as the bright colours it had once so pleased her to wear
                        were laid away in high, mahogany presses that lined one side of the lofty
                        state?bedroom upstairs. But now remembrance laid violent hands on her,
                        shaking both mind and body from their calm. The passion of the bird’s song,
                        the caressing suavity of the summer night, the knowledge, too, that so soon
                        another bride and bridegroom would dwell here at Brockhurst, worked upon her
                        strangely. She struggled with herself, surprised and half angered by the
                        force of her own emotion, and pleaded at
                        once against, and for, the satisfaction of the immense nostalgia which
                        possessed her.
                    “Ah! it is bitter, very bitter, to have had at once so much and so little.
                        Bow my proud neck, O Lord, to Thy yoke.—If my beloved had but been spared to
                        me I had never walked in darkness, far from the way of faith, and my child
                        had never suffered bodily disfigurement. Perfect me, O God, even at the cost
                        of further suffering. It is sad to be shut away from the joys of my
                        womanhood, while my life is still strong in me. Break me, O Lord, even as
                        the ploughshare breaks the reluctant clod. Hold not Thy hand till the work
                        be fully accomplished, and the earth be ready for the sowing which makes for
                        harvest.—Give me back the beloved of my youth, the beloved of my life, if
                        only for an hour. Teach me to submit.—Show me, beyond all dread of
                        contradiction that vows, truly made, hold good even in that mysterious world
                        beyond the grave. Show me that though the body—dear home and vehicle of
                        love—may die, yet love in its essence remains everlastingly conscious,
                        faithful and complete. Bend my will to harmony with Thine, O Lord, and
                        cleanse me of self?seeking.—Ah! but still let me see his face once again,
                        once again, oh, my God—and I will rebel no more. Let me look on him, once
                        again, if only for a moment, and I shall be content. Hear me, I am greatly
                        troubled, I am athirst—I faint”—
                    Katherine’s prayer, which had risen into audible speech, sank away into
                        silence. The near nightingale had fallen silent also. But from across the
                        valley, chastened and etherealised by distance, still came the song of the
                        answering bird. To Katherine those fine and delicate notes were full of
                        promise. They bore testimony to the soul which dwells forever behind the
                        outward aspect and sense. Whether she fainted in good truth, or whether she
                        passed, for a while, into that sublimated state of consciousness wherein the
                        veils of habit cease to blind and something of the eternal essence and
                        values of things is revealed—perception overstepping, for once, the limits
                        of ordinary, earth?bound apprehension and transcending ordinary
                        circumscription of time and place—she could not tell. Nor did she greatly
                        care. For a great peace descended upon her, accompanied by a gentle, yet
                        penetrating expectancy. She stood very still, her feet set on the warm
                        gravel, the night air wrapping her about as with a fragrant garment, the
                        ghostly sweetness of that far?away bird?song in her ears, while momentarily
                        the conviction of the near presence of the man who had so loved her, and
                        whom she had so loved, deepened within her. And therefore it was without
                        alarm, without any shock of amazement, that gradually she found her
                            aware? ness of that presence change
                        from something felt, to something actually seen.
                    He came towards her—that first Richard Calmady, her husband and lover—across
                        the smooth, green levels of the troco?ground which lay dusky in the mingling
                        half?lights of the nearly departed sunset and the rising moon—as he had come
                        to her a hundred times in life, back from the farms or the moorlands, from
                        sport or from business, or from those early morning rides, the clean
                        freshness of the morning upon him, after seeing his racehorses galloped. He
                        came bareheaded, in easy workmanlike garments, short coat, breeches, long
                        boots and spurs. He came with the repose of movement which is born of a
                        well?knit frame, and a temperate life, and the grace of gentle blood. He
                        came with the half smile on his lips, and the gladness in his eyes when they
                        first met hers, which had always been there however brief the parting. And
                        Katherine perceived it was just thus our beloved dead must needs return to
                        us—should they return at all—laying aside the splendours of the spirit in
                        tenderness for mortal weakness. Even as the Christ laid aside the visible
                        glory of the Godhead, and came a babe among men, so must they come in
                        humble, every?day fashion, graciously taking on the manner and habit common
                        to them during earthly life. Therefore she suffered no shrinking, but turned
                        instinctively, as she had turned a hundred times, laughing very softly in
                        the fulness of content, raising her hands, throwing back her head, knowing
                        that he would come behind her and take her hands in his, and kiss her, so,
                        bending down over her shoulder. And, when he came, she did not need to
                        speak, but only to gaze into the well?beloved face, familiar, yet touched—as
                        it seemed to her—with a mysterious and awful beauty, beholding which she
                        divined the answer to many questions.
                    For she perceived, as one waking from an uneasy dream perceives the
                        comfortable truth of day, that her love was not given back to her, for the
                        dear reason that her love had never been taken away. The fiction of Time
                        ceased to rule in her, so that the joy of bride and new?wed wife, the
                        strange, sweet perplexities of dawning motherhood were with her now, not as
                        memories merely, but as actual, ever?present, deathless facts—the
                        culminating, and therefore permanent, revelation of her individual
                        experience. She perceived this continued and must continue, since it was the
                        fine flower of her nature, the unit of her personal equation, the
                        realisation of the eternal purpose concerning her of Almighty God. The
                        fiction of old age was discredited, so was the bitterness of deposition, the
                        mournful fiction of being passed by and
                        relegated to the second place. Her place was her own. Her standing ground in
                        the universal order, a freehold, absolute and inalienable. She could not
                        abdicate her throne, neither could any wrest it away from her. She perceived
                        that not self?effacement, but self?development, not dissolution, but
                        evolution, was the service required of her. And, as divinely designed
                        contribution to that end was every joy, every sorrow, laid upon her; since
                        by these was she differentiated from all others, by these was she built up
                        into a separate existence, sane, harmonious, well?proportioned, a fair lamp
                        lighted with a burning coal from off the altar of that God of whom it is
                        written, not only that He is a consuming fire, but that He is Love.
                    All this, and more, did Katherine apprehend, beholding the familiar, yet
                        mysterious countenance of her well?beloved. And the tendency of that
                        apprehension made for tranquillity of spirit, for a sure and certain hope.
                        The faculty which reasons, demands explanation and proof, might not be
                        satisfied; but that higher faculty which divines, accepts, believes,
                        assuredly was so. Nor could it be otherwise, since it is the spirit, the
                        idea, not the letter, which giveth life.
                    How long she stood thus, in tender and illuminating, though wordless,
                        communion with the dead, Katherine did not know. The deepest spiritual
                        experiences, like the most exquisite physical ones, are to be measured by
                        intensity rather than duration. For a space the vision sensibly held her,
                        the so ardently desired presence there incontestibly beside her, a
                        personality vivid and distinct, yet in a way remote, serene as the immense
                        dome of the cloudless sky, chastened and etherealised as the song of the
                        answering nightingale; and in this differing from any bodily presence, as
                        the song in question differed from that of the bird in the laurel close at
                        hand.
                    Gradually, and with such sense of refreshment as one enjoys who, bathing in
                        some clear stream at evening, washes away all soil and sweat of a weary
                        journey, Katherine awoke to more ordinary observation of her material
                        surroundings. She became aware that the dog, Camp, had turned singularly
                        restless. He slunk away as though wishing to avoid her near neighbourhood,
                        crawled back to her, with dragging hind?quarters, cringing and whining as
                        though in acute distress. And, by degrees, another sound obtruded itself,
                        speaking of haste and effort, notably at variance with the delicate and
                        gracious stillness. It came from the highroad crossing the open moor, which
                        loomed up a dark, straight ridge against the southern horizon. It came in
                        rising and falling cadence, but ever nearer and nearer, increasingly distinct, increasingly
                        urgent—the fast, steady trot of a horse. The moon, meanwhile, had swept
                        clear of the sawlike edge of the fir forest; and, while the thin, white
                        light of it broadened upon the dewy grass and the beat of the horse?hoofs
                        rang out clearer and clearer, Katherine was aware that the dear vision faded
                        and grew faint. As it had come, softly, without amazement or fear, so it
                        departed, without agitation or sadness of farewell, leaving Katherine
                        profoundly consoled, the glory of her womanhood restored to her in the
                        indubitable assurance that what had been of necessity continued, and forever
                        was.
                    And, therefore, she still listened but idly to the approaching sound, not
                        reckoning with it as yet, though the roll of wheels was now added to the
                        rapid beat of the hoofs of a trotting horse. It had turned down over the
                        hillside by the cross road leading to the upper lodge. Suddenly it ceased.
                        The shout of a man’s voice, loud and imperative, a momentary pause, then the
                        clang of heavy, iron gates swinging back into place; and once again the roll
                        of wheels and that steady, urgent, determined trot, coming nearer and nearer
                        down the elm avenue, whose stately rows of trees looked as though made of
                        ebony and burnished silver in the slanting moonlight. On it came across the
                        bridge spanning the glistering whiteness of the Long Water. And on again,
                        steadily and no less rapidly, as though pressed by the hand of a somewhat
                        merciless driver, hot to arrive, bearer of stirring tidings, up the steeply
                        ascending hill to the house.
                    Lady Calmady listened, beginning to question whom this nocturnal disturber of
                        the peace of Brockhurst might be. But only vaguely as yet, since that which
                        she had recently experienced was so great, so wide?reaching in its meaning
                        and promise, that, for the moment, it dwarfed all other possible, all other
                        imaginable, events. The gracious tranquillity which enveloped her could not
                        be penetrated by any anxiety or premonition of momentous happenings as yet.
                        It was not so, however, with Camp. For a spirit of extravagant and
                        unreasoning excitement appeared to seize on the dog. Forgetful of age, of
                        stiff limbs and short?coming breath, he gambolled round Lady Calmady,
                        describing crazy circles upon the grass, and barking until the unseemly din
                        echoed back harshly from against the great red and grey façade. He fawned
                        upon her, abject, yet compelling; and, at last, as though exasperated by her
                        absence of response, turned tail and bounded away through the garden?hall
                        and along the terrace, disappearing through the small, arched side?door into
                        the house. And there, within, stir and movement became momentarily more
                        apparent. Shifting lights flashed out
                        through the many?paned windows, as though in quick search of some eagerly
                        desired presence.
                    Nevertheless, for a little space, Katherine lingered, the fragrance of the
                        wild thyme and of the fair gardens still about her, the somnolent churring
                        of the night?hawks and faint notes of the nightingale’s song still saluting
                        her ears. It was so difficult to return to and cope with the demands of
                        ordinary life. For had she not been caught up into the third heaven and
                        heard words unspeakable, unlawful, in their entirety, for living man to
                        utter?
                    But things terrestrial, in this case as in so many other cases, refused to
                        make large room for, or brook delay from, things celestial. Two servants
                        came out, hurriedly, from that same arched side?door. Then Clara, that
                        devoted handmaiden, called from the window of the red drawing?room.
                    “Her ladyship’s there, on the troco?ground. Don’t you see, Mr. Winter?”
                    The butler hurried along the terrace. Katherine met him on the steps of the
                        garden?hall.
                    “Is anything wrong, Winter?” she asked kindly, for the trusted servant
                        betrayed unusual signs of emotion. “Am I wanted?”
                    “Sir Richard has returned, my lady,” he said, and his voice shook. “Sir
                        Richard is in the Gun?Room. He gave orders that your ladyship should be told
                        that he would be glad to speak to you immediately.”
                
                
                    CHAPTER IX
                    IN WHICH DICKIE SHAKES HANDS WITH THE DEVIL
                    “MY dear, this is quite unexpected.”
                    Lady Calmady’s tone was one of quiet, innate joyousness. A gentle brightness
                        pervaded her whole aspect and manner. She looked wonderfully young, as
                        though the hands of the clock had been put back by some twenty and odd
                        years. Every line had disappeared from her face, and in her eyes was a clear
                        shining very lovely to behold. Richard glanced at her as she came swiftly
                        towards him across the room. Then he looked down again, and answered
                        deliberately:—
                    “Yes, it is, as you say, quite unexpected. This time last night I as little
                        anticipated being back here as you anticipated my coming. But one’s plans
                        change rapidly and radically at times. Mine have done so.”
                    
                    He sat at the large, library writing?table, a pile of letters, papers,
                        circulars, before him, judged unworthy of forwarding, which had accumulated
                        during his absence. He tore off wrappers, tore open envelopes, quickly yet
                        methodically, as though bending his mind with conscious determination to the
                        performance of a self?inflicted task. Looking at the contents of each in
                        turn, with an odd mixture of indifference and close attention, he flung the
                        major part into the waste?paper basket set beside his revolving?chair. A
                        tall, green?shaded lamp shed a circle of vivid light upon the silver and
                        maroon leather furnishings of the writing?table, upon the young man’s bent
                        head, and upon his restless hands as they grasped, and straightened, and
                        then tore, with measured if impatient precision, the letters and papers
                        lying before him.
                    Lady Calmady stood resting the tips of her fingers on the corner of the
                        table, looking down at him with those clear shining eyes. His reception of
                        her had not been demonstrative, but of that she was hardly sensible. The
                        reconciling assurances of faith, the glories of the third heaven, still
                        dazzled her somewhat. Her feet hardly touched earth yet, so that her
                        mother?love, and all its sensitive watchfulness was, as yet, somewhat in
                        abeyance. She spoke again with the same quiet joyousness of tone.
                    “You should have telegraphed to me, dearest, and then all would have been
                        ready to welcome you. As it is, I fear, you must feel yourself a trifle
                        neglected. I have been, or have fancied myself, mightily busy all
                        day—foolishly cumbered about much serving—and had gone out to forget maids,
                        and food, and domesticities generally, into the dear garden.”—She paused,
                        smiling. “Ah! it is a gracious night,” she said, “full of inspiration. You
                        must have enjoyed the drive home. The household refuses to take this
                        marriage of yours philosophically, Dickie. It demands great magnificence,
                        quite as much, be sure, for its own glorification as for yours. It also
                        multiplies small difficulties, after the manner of well?conducted
                        households, as I imagine, since the world began.”
                    Richard tore the prospectus of a mining company, offering wealth beyond the
                        dreams of avarice, right across with a certain violence.
                    “Oh, well, the household may forego its magnificence and cease from the
                        multiplication of small difficulties alike, as far as any marriage of mine
                        is concerned. You can tell the household so to?morrow, mother, or I can.
                        Perhaps the irony of the position would be more nicely pointed by the
                        announcement coming directly from myself. That would heighten the
                        drama.”
                    
                    “But, Dickie, my dearest?” Katherine said, greatly perplexed.
                    “The whole affair is at an end. Lady Constance Quayle is not going to marry
                        me, and I am not going to marry Lady Constance Quayle.—On that point at
                        least she and I are entirely at one. All London will know this to?morrow.
                        Perhaps Brockhurst, in the interests of its endangered philosophy, had
                        better know it to?night.”
                    Richard leaned forward, opening, tearing, sorting the papers again. A rasping
                        quality was in his voice and speech, hitherto unknown to his mother; a cold,
                        imperious quality in his manner, also, new to her. And these brought her
                        down to earth, setting her feet thereon uncompromisingly. And the earth on
                        which they were thus set was, it must be owned, rather ugly. A woman made of
                        weaker stuff would have cried out against such sudden and painful
                        declension. But Katherine, happily both for herself and for those about her,
                        waking even from dreams of noble and far?reaching attainment, waked with not
                        only her wits, but her heart, in steady action. Yet she in nowise went back
                        on the revelation that had been vouchsafed to her. It was in nowise
                        disqualified or rendered suspect, because the gamut of human emotion proved
                        to have more extended range and more jarring discords than she had yet
                        reckoned with. Her mind was large enough to make room for novel experience
                        in sorrow, as well as in joy, retaining the while its poise and sanity.
                        Therefore, recognising a new phase in the development of her child, she,
                        without hesitation or regret of self?love for the disturbance of her own
                        gladness, braced herself to meet it. His pride had been wounded—somehow, she
                        knew not how—to the very quick. And the smart of that wound was too shrewd,
                        as yet, for any precious balms of articulate tenderness to soothe it. She
                        must give it time to heal a little, meanwhile setting herself scrupulously
                        to respect his dark humour, meet his pride with pride, his calm with at
                        least equal calmness.
                    She drew a chair up to the end of the table, and settled herself to listen
                        quite composedly.
                    “It will be well, dearest,” she said, “that you should explain to me clearly
                        what has happened. To do so may avert possible complications.”
                    Richard’s hands paused among the papers. He regarded Lady Calmady
                        reflectively, not without a grudging admiration. But an evil spirit
                        possessed him, a necessity of mastery—inevitable reaction from recently
                        endured humiliation—which provoked him to
                        measure his strength against hers. He needed a sacrifice to propitiate his
                        anger. That sacrifice must be in some sort a human one. So he deliberately
                        pulled the tall lamp nearer, and swung his chair round sideways, leaning his
                        elbow on the table, with the result that the light rested on his face. It
                        did more. It rested upon his body, upon his legs and feet, disclosing the
                        extent of their deformity.
                    Involuntarily Katherine shrank back. It was as though he had struck her.
                        Morally, indeed, he had struck her, for there was a cynical callousness in
                        this disclosure, in this departure from his practice of careful and
                        self?respecting concealment. Meanwhile Richard watched her, as, shrinking,
                        her eyelids drooped and quivered.
                    “Mother,” he said, quietly and imperatively.—And when, not without
                        perceptible effort, she again raised her eyes to his, he went on:—“I quite
                        agree with you that it will be well for me to explain with a view to
                        averting possible complications. It has become necessary that we should
                        clearly understand one another—at least that you, my dear mother, should
                        understand my position fully and finally. We have been too nice, you and I,
                        heretofore, and, the truth being very far from nice, have expended much
                        trouble and ingenuity in our efforts to ignore it. We went up to London in
                        the fond hope that the world at large would support us in our
                        self?deception. So it did, for a time. But, being in the main composed of
                        very fairly honest and sensible persons, it has grown tired of sentimental
                        lying, of helping us to bury our heads ostrich?like in the sand. It has gone
                        over to the side of truth—that very far from flattering or pretty truth to
                        which I have just alluded—with this result, among others, that my engagement
                        has come to an abrupt and really rather melodramatic conclusion.”
                    He paused.
                    “Go on, Richard,” Lady Calmady said, “I am listening.”
                    He drew himself up, sitting very erect, keeping his eyes steadily fixed on
                        her, speaking steadily and coldly, though his lips twitched a little.
                    “Lady Constance did me the honour to call on me last night, rather later than
                        this, absenting herself in the very thick of Lady Louisa Barking’s ball for
                        that purpose.”
                    Katherine moved slightly, her dress rustled.
                    “Yes—considering her character and her training it was a rather surprising
                            démarche on her part, and bore
                        convincing testimony to her agitation of mind.”
                    “Did she come alone?”
                    
                    Richard lapsed into an easier position.
                    “Oh, dear no!” he said. “Allowing for the desperation which dictated her
                        proceedings, they were carried out in a very regular manner, with a
                        praiseworthy regard for appearances. Lady Constance is, in my opinion, a
                        very sweet person. She is perfectly modest and has an unusual regard—as
                        women go—for honour and duty—as women understand them.”—Again his voice took
                        on that rasping quality. “She brought a friend, a young lady, with her.
                        Fortunately there was no occasion for me to speak to her—she had the good
                        taste to efface herself during our interview. But I saw her in the hall
                        afterwards. I shall always remember that very distinctly. So, I imagine,
                        will she. Then Lord Shotover waited outside with the carriage. Oh! believe
                        me, admitting its inherent originality, the affair was conducted with an
                        admirable regard for appearances.”
                    Again the regular flow of Richard’s speech was broken. His throat had gone
                        very dry.
                    “Lady Constance appealed to me in extremely moving terms, articulate and
                        otherwise, to set her free.”
                    “To set her free—and upon what grounds?”
                    “Upon the rather crude, but pre?eminently sensible grounds, my dear mother,
                        that after full consideration, she found the bid was not high enough.”
                    “Indeed,” Katherine said.
                    “Yes, indeed, my dear mother,” Richard repeated. “Does that surprise you? It
                        quite ceased to surprise me, when she pointed out the facts of the case. For
                        she was touchingly sincere. I respected her for that. The position was an
                        ungracious one for her. She has a charming nature, and really wanted to
                        spare me just as much as was possible along with the gaining of her cause.
                        Her gift of speech is limited, you know; but then no degree of eloquence or
                        diplomacy could have rendered that which she had to say agreeable to my
                        self?esteem. Oh! on the whole she did it very well, very conclusively.”
                    Richard raised his head, pausing a moment. Again that dryness of the throat
                        checked his utterance. And then, recalling the scene of the past night, a
                        great wave of unhappiness, pure and simple, of immense disappointment,
                        immense self?disgust broke over him. His anger, his outraged pride, came
                        near being swamped by it. He came near losing his bitter self?control and
                        crying aloud for help. But he mastered the inclination, perhaps
                        unfortunately, and continued speaking.
                    “Yes, decidedly, with the exception of Ludovic, that family do not possess
                        ready tongues, yet they contrive to make their meaning pretty plain in the end. I have just
                        driven over from Whitney, and am fresh from a fine example of eventual plain
                        speaking from that excellent father of the family, Lord Fallowfeild. It was
                        instructive. For the main thing, after all, as we must both agree, mother,
                        is to understand oneself clearly and to make oneself clearly understood. And
                        in this respect you and I, I’m afraid, have failed a good deal. Blinded by
                        our own fine egoism we have even failed altogether to understand others.
                        Lady Constance, for instance, possesses very much more character than it
                        suited us to credit her with.”
                    “You are harsh, dearest,” Katherine murmured, and her lips trembled.
                    “Not at all,” he answered. “I have only said good?bye to lying. Can you
                        honestly deny, my dear mother, that the whole affair was just one of
                        convenience? I told you—it strikes me now as a rather brutally primitive
                        announcement—that I wanted a wife because I wanted a son—a son to prove to
                        me the entirety of my own manhood, a son to give me at second hand certain
                        obvious pleasures and satisfactions which I am debarred, as you know, from
                        obtaining at first hand. You engaged to find me a bride. Poor, little Lady
                        Constance Quayle, unluckily for her, appeared to meet our requirements,
                        being pretty and healthy, and too innocent and undeveloped to suspect the
                        rather mean advantage we proposed to take of her.—What? I know it sounds
                        rather gross stated thus plainly. But, the day of lies being over, dare you
                        deny it?—Well then, we proceeded to traffic for this desirable bit of young
                        womanhood, of prospective maternity,—to buy her from such of her relations
                        as were perverted enough to countenance the transaction, just as shamelessly
                        as though we had gone into the common bazaar, after the manner of the
                        cynical East, and bargained for her, poor child, in fat?tailed sheep or
                        cowries. Doesn’t it appear to you almost incredible, almost infamous that
                        we—you and I, mother—should have done this thing? The price we offered
                        seemed sufficient to some of her people—not to all, I have learned that past
                        forgetting to?day, thanks to Lord Fallowfeild’s thick?headed, blundering
                        veracity. But, thank Heaven, she had more heart, more sensibility, more
                        self?respect, more decency, than we allowed for. She plucked up spirit
                        enough to refuse to be bought and sold like a pedigree filly or heifer. I
                        think that was rather heroic, considering her traditions and the pressure
                        which had been brought to bear to keep her silent. I can only honour and
                        reverence her for coming to tell me frankly, though at the eleventh hour,
                        that she preferred a man of no particular
                        position or fortune, but with the ordinary complement of limbs, to
                        Brockhurst, and the house in London, and my forty to forty?five thousand a
                        year, plus”—
                    Richard laughed savagely, leaning forward, spreading out his arms.
                    “Well, my dear mother,—since, as I say, the day of lies is over,—plus the
                        remnant of a human being you may see here, at this moment, if you will only
                        have the kindness to look!”
                    At first Katherine had listened in mute surprise, bringing her mind, not
                        without difficulty, into relation to the immediate and the present. Then
                        watchful sympathy had been aroused, then anxiety, then tenderness, denying
                        itself expression since the time for it was not yet ripe. But as the minutes
                        lengthened and the flow of Richard’s speech not only continued, but gained
                        in volume and in force, sympathy, anxiety, tenderness, were merged in an
                        emotion of ever?deepening anguish, so that she sat as one who contemplates,
                        spell?bound, a scene of veritable horror. From regions celestial to regions
                        terrestrial she had been hurried with rather dislocating suddenness. But her
                        sorry journey did not end there. For hardly were her feet planted on solid
                        earth again, than the demand came that she should descend still further—to
                        regions sub?terrestrial, regions frankly infernal. And this descent to hell,
                        though rapid to the point of astonishment, was by no means easy. Rather was
                        it violent and remorseless—a driving as by reiterated blows, a rude,
                        merciless dragging onward and downward. Yet, even so, for all the anguish
                        and shame—as of unseemly exposure—the perversion of her intention and
                        action, the scorn so ruthlessly poured upon her, it was less of herself, the
                        compelled, than of Richard, the compelling, that she thought. For even while
                        his anger thus drove and dragged her, he himself was tortured in the flame
                        far below—so it seemed, and that constituted the finest sting of her
                        agony—beyond her power to reach or help. She, after all, but stood on the
                        edge of the crater, watching. He fought, right down in the molten waves of
                        it—fought with himself, too, more fiercely even than he fought with her. So
                        that now, as years ago waiting outside the red drawing?room hearing the
                        stern, peremptory tones of the surgeons, the moan of unspeakable physical
                        pain, the grating of a saw, picturing the dismemberment of the living body
                        she so loved, Katherine was tempted to run a little mad and beat her
                        beautiful head against the wall. But age, while taking no jot or tittle from
                        the capacity of suffering, still, in sane and healthy natures, brings a
                        certain steadiness to the brain and coolness to the blood. Therefore
                        Katherine sat very still and silent, her
                        sweet eyes half closed, her spirit bowed in unspoken prayer. Surely the
                        all?loving God, who, but a brief hour ago, had vouchsafed her the fair
                        vision of the delight of her youth, would ease his torment and spare her
                        son?
                    And, all the while, outward nature remained reposeful and gracious in aspect
                        as ever. The churring of the night?hawks, the occasional bark of the fox in
                        the Warren, the song of the answering nightingales, wandered in at the open
                        casements. And, along with these, came the sweetness of the beds of wild
                        thyme from the grass slopes, and the rich, languid scent of the blossom of
                        the little, round?headed, orange trees set, in green tubs, below the carven
                        guardian griffins on the flight of steps leading up to the main entrance.
                        That which had been lovely, continued lovely still. And, therefore
                        perhaps,—she could hope it even amid the fulness of her anguish,—the gates
                        of hell might stand open to ascending as well as descending feet; and so
                        that awful road might at last—at last—be retraced by this tormented child of
                        hers, whom, though he railed against her, she still supremely loved.
                    But Richard, whether actually or intentionally it would be difficult to say,
                        misinterpreted and resented her silence and apparent calm. He waited for a
                        time, his eyes fastened upon her half?averted face. Then he picked up one of
                        the remaining packets from the table, tore off the wrapper, glanced at the
                        contents, stretched out his left arm holding the said contents suspended
                        over the waste?paper basket.
                    “Yes, it is evident,” he declared, “even you do not care to look! Well, then,
                        must you not admit that you and I have been guilty of an extravagance of
                        fatuous folly, and worse, in seriously proposing that a well?born, sensitive
                        girl should not only look at, habitually and closely, but take for all her
                        chance in life a crippled dwarf like me—an anomaly, a human curiosity, a
                        creature so unsightly that it must be carried about like any baby?in?arms
                        lest its repulsive ungainliness should sicken the bystanders if, leaving the
                        shelter of a railway?rug and an arm?chair, it tries—unhappy brute—to
                        walk?—Oh! I’m not angry with her. I don’t blame her. I’m not surprised. I
                        agree with her down to the ground. I sympathise and comprehend—no man more.
                        I told her so last night—only amazed at the insane egoism that could ever
                        have induced me to view the matter in any other light. Women are generally
                        disposed to be hard on one another. But if you, my dear mother, should be in
                        any degree tempted to be hard on Constance Quayle, I beg you to consider
                        your own engagement, your own marriage, my father’s”—
                    Here Katherine interrupted him, rising in sudden revolt.
                    
                    “No, no, Richard,” she said, “that is more, my dear, than I can either permit
                        or can bear. If you have any sort of mercy left in you, do not bring your
                        father’s name, and that which lies between him and me, into this hideous
                        conversation.”
                    The young man looked hard at her, and then opening his hand, let the pieces
                        of torn paper flutter down into the basket. It was done with a singularly
                        measured action, symbolic of casting off some last tie, severing some last
                        link, which bound his life and his allegiance to his companion.
                    “Yes, exactly,” he said. “As I expected, the day of lying being over, you as
                        good as own it an outrage to your taste, and your affections, that so
                        frightful a thing, as I am, should venture to range itself alongside your
                        memories of your husband. Out of your own mouth are you judged, my dear
                        mother. And, if I am thus to you, upon whom, after all, I have some natural
                        claim, what must I be to others? Think of it! What indeed!”
                    Katherine made no attempt to answer. Perception of the grain of truth which
                        seasoned the vast, the glaring, injustice of his accusations unnerved her.
                        His speech was ingeniously cruel. His humour such, that it was vain to
                        protest. And the hopelessness of it all affected her to the point of
                        physical weakness. She moved across the room, intending to gain the door and
                        go, for it seemed to her the limit of her powers of endurance had been
                        reached. But her strength would not carry her so far. She stumbled on the
                        upturned corner of the shining, tiger?skin rug, recovered herself trembling,
                        and laid hold of the high, narrow, marble shelf of the chimney?piece for
                        support. She must rest a little lest her strength should wholly desert her,
                        and she should fall before reaching the door.
                    Behind her, within the circle of lamplight, Richard remained, still sorting,
                        tearing, flinging away that which remained of the pile of papers. This deft,
                        persistent activity of his, in its mixture of purpose and abstraction, was
                        agitating—seeming, to Katherine’s listening ears, as though it might go on
                        endlessly, until not only these waste papers, but all and everything within
                        his reach, things spiritual, things of the heart, duties, obligations,
                        gracious and tender courtesies, as well as things merely material, might be
                        thus relentlessly scrutinised, judged worthless, rent asunder and cast
                        forth. What would be spared she wondered, what left? And, when the work of
                        destruction was completed, what would follow next?—Bracing herself, she
                        turned, purposing to close the interview by some brief pleading of
                        indisposition and to escape. But, as she did so, the sound of tearing
                        ceased. Richard slipped down from his place at the writing?table, and shuffling across the room, flung himself
                        into the long, low arm?chair on the opposite side of the fireplace.
                    “I don’t want to detain you for an unreasonable length of time, mother,” he
                        said. “We understand each other in the main, I think, and that without
                        subterfuge or self?deception at last. But there are details to be
                        considered; and, as I leave here early to?morrow morning, I think you’ll
                        feel with me it’s desirable we should have our talk out. There are a good
                        many eventualities for which it’s only reasonable and prudent to make
                        provision on the eve of an indefinitely long absence. Practically a good
                        many people are dependent on me, one way and another, and I don’t consider
                        it honourable to leave their affairs at loose ends, however uncertain my own
                        future may be.”
                    Richard’s voice had still that rasping quality, while his bearing was
                        instinct with a coldly dominating, and almost aggressive, force. Katherine,
                        though little addicted to fear, felt strangely shaken, strangely alienated
                        by the dead weight of the personality, by perception of the innate and
                        tremendous vigour, of this being to whom she had given birth. She had
                        imagined, specially during the last few months of happy and intimate
                        companionship, that if ever mother knew her child, she knew Richard—through
                        and through. But it appeared she had been mistaken. For here was a new
                        Richard, at once terrible and magnificent, regarding whom she could
                        predicate nothing with certainty. He defied her tenderness, he outpaced her
                        imagination, he paralysed her will. Between his thoughts, desires,
                        intentions, and hers, a blind blank space had suddenly intruded itself,
                        impenetrable to her thought. In person he was here close beside her, in mind
                        he was despairingly far away. And to this last, not only his words, but his
                        manner, his expression, his singular, yet sombre beauty, bore convincing
                        testimony. He had matured with an almost unnatural rapidity, leaving her far
                        behind. In his presence she felt diffident, mentally insecure, even as a
                        child.
                    She remained standing, holding tightly to the narrow ledge of the
                        mantelpiece. She felt dazed and giddy as in face of some upheaval, some
                        cataclysm, of nature. In relation to her son she was conscious, in truth,
                        that her whole world had suffered shipwreck.
                    “Where are you going, Dickie?” she asked at last very simply.
                    “Anywhere and everywhere where amusement, or even the semblance of it, is to
                        be had,” he answered.—“Do you wish to know how long I shall be away? Just
                        precisely as long as amusement in any form offers itself, and as my power of
                            being amused remains to me. This
                        strikes you as slightly ignoble? I am afraid that’s a point, my dear mother,
                        upon which I am supremely indifferent. You and I have posed rather
                        extensively on the exalted side of things so far, have strained at gnats and
                        finished up by swallowing a remarkably full?grown camel. This whole business
                        of my proposed marriage has been anything but graceful, when looked at in
                        the common?sense way in which most people, of necessity, look at it. Lord
                        Fallowfeild appealed to me against myself—which appeared to me slightly
                        humorous—as one man of the world to another. That was an eye?opener. It was
                        likewise a profitable lesson. I promptly laid it to heart. And it is
                        exclusively from the point of view of the man of the world that I propose to
                        regard myself, and my circumstances, and my personal peculiarities, in
                        future. So, to begin with, if you please, from this time forth, we put aside
                        all question of marriage in my case. We don’t make any more attempts to buy
                        innocent and well?bred, young girls, inviting them to condone my obvious
                        disabilities in consideration of my little title and my money.”
                    Richard ceased to look at Lady Calmady. He looked away through the open
                        window into the serene sky of the summer night, a certain hunger in his
                        expression not altogether pleasant to witness.
                    “Fortunately ”he continued, with something between a laugh and a sneer,
                        “there is a mighty army of women—always has been—who don’t come under the
                        head of innocent, young girls, though some of them have plenty of breeding
                        of a kind. They attach no superstitious importance to the marriage ceremony.
                        My position and money may obtain me consolations in their direction.”
                    Lady Calmady ceased to require the cold support of the marble
                        mantelshelf.
                    “It is unnecessary for us to discuss that subject, at least, Richard,” she
                        said.
                    The young man turned his head again, looking full at her. And again the
                        distance that divided her from him became, to her, cruelly apparent, while
                        his strength begot in her a shrinking of fear.
                    “I am sorry,” he replied, “but I can’t agree with you there. It is inevitable
                        that we should differ in the future, and that you should frequently
                        disapprove. I can’t expect you to emancipate yourself from prejudice, as I
                        am already emancipated. I am not sure I even wish that. Still, whatever the
                        future may bring forth, of this, my dear mother, I am determined to make a
                        clean breast to?night, so that you shall
                        never have cause to charge me with lack of frankness or of attempt to
                        deceive you.”
                    Yet, at the moment, the poor mother’s heart cried out to be deceived, if
                        thereby it might be eased a little of suffering. Then, a nobler spirit
                        prevailing within her, Katherine rallied her fortitude. Better he should be
                        bound to her even by cynical avowal of projected vice, than not bound at
                        all. Listening now, she gained the right—a bitter enough right—to command a
                        measure of his confidence in those still darker days which, as she
                        apprehended, only too certainly lay ahead. So she answered, calmly:—
                    “Go on, Richard. As you say we may differ in the future. I may disapprove,
                        but I can be silent. You are right. It is better for us both that I should
                        hear.”
                    And once more the young man was compelled to yield her a grudging admiration.
                        His tone softened somewhat.
                    “I don’t like to see you stand, mother,” he said. “Our conversation may be
                        prolonged. One never quite knows what may crop up. You will be overtired.
                        And to?morrow, when I am gone, there will be things to do.”
                    Lady Calmady drew forward the chair from the end of the writing?table. Her
                        back was towards the lamp, her face in shadow. Of this she was glad. In a
                        degree it lessened the strain. The sweet, night air, coming in at the open
                        casements, fluttered the lace on her bodice, as with the touch of a light,
                        cool hand. Of this she was glad too. It was refreshing, and she grew
                        increasingly exhausted and physically weak. Richard observed her, not
                        without solicitude.
                    “I am afraid you are not well, mother,” he said.
                    But Katherine shook her head, smiling upon him with misty eyes and lips
                        somewhat tremulous.
                    “I am always well,” she replied. “Only to?night it has been given me to scale
                        heights and sound opposing depths, and I am a little overcome by perplexity
                        and by surprise. But what does that signify? I shall have plenty of time—too
                        much, probably—in which to rest and range my ideas when—you are gone, my
                        dearest.”
                    “You must not be here alone.”
                    “Oh no! People will visit me, no doubt, animated by kindly wishes to lessen
                        my solitude,” she answered, still smiling. Remembrance of Honoria St.
                        Quentin’s letter came to her mind. Could it be that the girl had some
                        inkling of what was in store for her, and that this had inspired the slight
                        over?warmth of her protestations of affection?—“Honoria would always be
                        ready to come, should I ask her,” she said.
                    
                    All solicitude passed from Richard’s expression, all softening from his
                        tone.
                    “By all means ask her. That would cap the climax, and round the irony of the
                        situation to admiration!”
                    “Indeed? Why?” Katherine inquired, painfully impressed by the renewed
                        bitterness of his manner.
                    “If you’re fond of her that is convincingly sufficient. She and I have never
                        been very sympathetic, but that’s a detail. I shall be gone. Therefore pray
                        have her, or anybody else you happen to fancy, so long as you do have
                        someone. You mustn’t be here alone.”
                    “Julius remains faithful through all chances and changes.”
                    “But I imagine even Julius has sufficient social sense to perceive that
                        faithfulness may be a little out of place at this juncture. At least I
                        sincerely hope he’ll perceive it, for otherwise he will have to be made to
                        do so—and that will be a nuisance.”
                    “Dickie, Dickie, what are you implying?” Lady Calmady exclaimed. “By what
                        strange and unlovely thoughts are you possessed to?night?”
                    “I am learning to look at things as the average man of the world looks at
                        them, that’s all,” he said. “We have been too refined, you and I, to be
                        self?critical, with the consequence that we have allowed ourselves a
                        considerable degree of latitude in many directions. Julius’ permanent
                        residence here ranks among the fine?fanciful disregardings of accepted
                        proprieties with which we have indulged ourselves. But spades are to be
                        called spades in future—at least by me. So, for the very same reason that I
                        go forth, like the average man of the world, to enjoy the pleasures of sin
                        for a season, do I object to Julius, or any other man, being your guest
                        during my absence, unless you have some woman of your own position in life
                        living here with you. The levels in social matters have changed, once and
                        for all. I have come to a sane mind and renounced the eccentric subterfuges
                        and paltry hypocrisies, by means of which we have attempted, you and I, to
                        keep disagreeable facts at bay. Truth, bare and unabashable, is the only
                        goddess I worship henceforth.”
                    He leaned forward, laying his hands upon the arms of his chair. His manner
                        was harsh still. But all coldness had departed from it, rather did a white
                        heat of passion consume him dreadful to witness.
                    “Yes, it is wisest to repeat that, so that, on your part, there may be no
                        excuse for any shadow of misapprehension. The levels have altered. The old
                        ones can never be restored. I want to have
                        you grasp this, mother—swallow it, digest it, so that it passes into fibre
                        and tissue of your every thought about me. For an acutely unscientific, an
                        ingeniously unreasonable, idea obtains widely among respectable,
                        sentimental, so?called religious persons, regarding those who are the
                        victims of disfiguring accident, or, like myself, are physically disgraced
                        from birth. Because we have been deprived of our natural rights, because we
                        have so abominably little, we are expected to be slavishly grateful for the
                        contemptible pittance that we have. Because, slothfully, by His neglect, or,
                        wantonly, for His amusement, the Creator has tortured us, maiming,
                        distorting us, setting us up as a laughing?stock before all man and
                        womankind—because He has played a ghastly and brutal practical joke on us,
                        fixing the marks of low comedy in our living flesh and bone—therefore we,
                        forsooth, are to be more pious, more clean?living, temperate, and discreet
                        than the rest—to bow amiably beneath the cross, gratefully to kiss the rod!
                        Those irregularities of conduct which are smiled at, and taken for granted,
                        in a man made after the normal, comely fashion, become a scandal in the case
                        of a poor, unhappy devil like me, at which good people hold up their hands
                        in horror. Faugh!—I tell you I’m sick of such cowardly cant. A pretty
                        example the Almighty’s set me of justice and mercy! Handsome encouragement
                        He has given me to be virtuous and sober! Much I have for which to praise
                        His holy name! Arbitrarily, without excuse, or faintest show of antecedent
                        reason, He has elected to curse. And the curse will cling forever and ever,
                        till they lay me in a coffin nearly half as short again as that of any other
                        man, and leave the hideousness of my deformity to be obliterated and purged
                        at last—eaten away by the worms in the dark.”
                    Richard stretched out his hands, palms upward.
                    “And in return for all this shall I bless? No, indeed—no, thank you. Not even
                        towards God Almighty Himself will I play the part of lick?spittle and
                        sycophant. I have fine enough stuff in me, let alone the energy begotten by
                        the flagrance of His injustice, to take higher grounds with Him than that. I
                        will break what men hold to be His laws, wherever and whenever I can—I will
                        make hay of His so?called natural and moral order, just as often as I get
                        the chance. I will curse, and again curse, back.”
                    The speaker’s voice was deep and resonant, filling the whole room. His
                        utterance deliberate and unshaken. His face dark with the malign beauty of
                        implacable hatred. Hearing him, seeing him thus, Katherine Calmady’s
                        fortitude forsook her. She ceased to
                        distinguish or discriminate. Nature gave way. She knelt upon the floor
                        before him, her hands clasped, tears coursing down her cheeks. But of her
                        attitude and aspect she was unconscious.
                    “Oh, Richard, Richard,” she cried, “forgive me! Curse me, my dearest, throw
                        all the blame on me, my dearest—I accept it—not on God. Only try, try to
                        forgive! Forgive me for being your mother. Forgive me that I ever loved and
                        married. Forgive me the intolerable wrong which, all unknowingly, I did you
                        before your birth. I humble myself before you, and with reason. For I am the
                        cause; I, who would give my life for your happiness, my blood for your
                        healing, a thousand times. But through all these years I have done my poor
                        best to serve you and to make up. The hypocrisies and subterfuges which you
                        lash so scornfully—and rightly perhaps—were the fruit of my overcare for
                        you. Rail at me. I deserve it. Perhaps I have been faithless, but only once
                        or twice, and for a moment. I was faithless towards you here, in the garden
                        to?night. But then I supposed you content. Ah! I hardly know what I
                        say!—Only rail at me, my beloved, not at God. And then try—try not to leave
                        me in anger. Try, before you go, to forgive!”
                    Richard had sunk back in his chair, his hands clasped behind his head,
                        watching her. It gave him the strangest sensation to see his mother kneeling
                        before him thus. At first it shocked him almost to the point of heated
                        protest, as against a thing unpermissible and indecorous. Then, the devils
                        of wounded pride, of anarchy, and of revolt asserting themselves, he began
                        to relish, to be appeased by, the unseemly sight. Little Lady Constance
                        Quayle, and all that of which she was the symbol, had disappointed and
                        escaped him. But here was a woman, worth a dozen Constance Quayles, in
                        beauty, in intellect, and in heart, prostrate before him, imploring his
                        clemency as the penitent implores the absolution of the priest! An evil
                        gladness took him that he had power thus to subjugate so regal a creature.
                        His gluttony of inflicting pain—since he himself suffered—his gluttony of
                        exercising dominion—since he himself had been defied and defrauded—was in a
                        degree satisfied. His arrogance was at once reinforced and assuaged.
                    “It is absurd to speak of forgiveness,” he said presently, and slowly, “as it
                        is absurd to speak of restitution. These are mere words, having no real
                        tally in fact. We appear to have volition, but actually and essentially we
                        are as leaves driven by the wind. Where it blindly drives, there we blindly
                        go. So it has been from the beginning. So it always will be. In the last
                            twenty? four hours there are many
                        things I have ceased to believe in, and among them, my dear mother, is human
                        responsibility.”
                    He paused, and motioned Lady Calmady towards her chair with a certain
                        authority.
                    “Therefore calm yourself,” he said. “Grieve as little as may be about all
                        this matter, and let us talk it over without further emotion.”
                    He waited a brief space, giving her time to recover her composure, and then
                        continued coldly, with a careful abstention from any show of feeling.
                    “Let us clear our minds of cant, and go forward knowing that there is really
                        neither good nor evil. For these—even as God Himself, whose existence I
                        treated from the anthropomorphic standpoint just now, so as to supply myself
                        with a target to shoot at, a windmill at which to tilt, a row of ninepins
                        set up for the mere satisfaction of knocking them down again?these are
                        plausible delusions invented by man, in the vain effort to protect himself
                        and his fellows from the profound sense of loneliness, and impotence, which
                        seizes on him if he catches so much as a passing glimpse of the gross comedy
                        of human aspiration, human affection, briefly human existence.”
                    But, strive as he might, excitement gained on Richard once more, for young
                        blood is hot and gallops masterfully along the veins, specially under the
                        whip of real or imagined disgrace. He sat upright, grasping the arms of his
                        chair, and looking, not at his mother, but away into the deep of the summer
                        night.
                    “Perhaps my personal peculiarities confer on me unusually acute perception of
                        the inherent grossness of the human comedy. I propose to take the lesson to
                        heart. They teach me not to sacrifice the present to the future; but to
                        fling away ideals like so much waste paper, and just take that which I can
                        immediately get. They tell me to limit my horizon, and go the common way of
                        common, coarse?grained, sensual man—in as far as that way is possible to
                        me—and be of this world worldly. And so, mother, I want you to understand
                        that from this day forth I turn over a new leaf, not only in thought, but in
                        conduct. I am going to have just all that my money and position, and even
                        this vile deformity—for, by God, I’ll use that too—what people won’t give
                        for love they’ll give for curiosity—can bring me of pleasure and notoriety.
                        I am going to lay hold of life with these rather horribly strong arms of
                        mine”—he looked across at Lady Calmady with a sneering smile.—“Strong?” he
                        repeated, “strong as a young bull?ape’s. I mean to tear the very vitals out
                        of living; to tear knowledge, excitement, intoxication, out of it, making them, by right of conquest, my
                        own. I will compel existence to yield me all that it yields other men, and
                        more—because my senses are finer, my acquaintance with sorrow more intimate,
                        my quarrel with fortune more vital and more just. As I cannot have a wife,
                        I’ll have mistresses. As I cannot have honest love, I’ll have gratified
                        lust. I am not stupid. I shall not follow the beaten track. My imagination
                        has been stimulated into rather dangerous activity by the pre?natal insult
                        put upon me. And now that I have emancipated myself, I propose to apply my
                        imagination practically.”
                    The young man flung himself back in his chair again.
                    “There ought to be startling results,” he said, with gloomy exultation.
                        “Don’t you think so, mother? There should be startling results.”
                    Lady Calmady bowed herself together, putting her hands over her eyes. Then
                        raising her head, she managed to smile at him, though very sadly, her sweet
                        face drawn by exhaustion and marred by lately shed tears.
                    “Ah yes, my dearest,” she answered, “no doubt the results will be startling;
                        but whether any sensible increase of happiness, either to yourself or
                        others, will be counted among them is open to question.”
                    Richard laughed bitterly.—“ I shall have lived, anyhow,” he rejoined. “Worn
                        out, not rusted and rotted out—which, according to our former fine?fanciful
                        programme, seemed the only probable consummation of my unlucky
                        existence.”
                    His tone changed, becoming quietly businesslike and indifferent.
                    “I am entering horses for some of the French events, and I go through to
                        Paris to?morrow to see various men there and make the necessary
                        arrangements. I shall take Chifney with me for a few days. But the stables
                        will not give you any trouble. He will have given all the orders.”
                    “Very well,” Katherine said mechanically.
                    “Later I shall go on to Baden?Baden.”
                    Katherine rallied somewhat.
                    “Helen de Vallorbes is there,” she said, not without a trace of her former
                        pride.
                    “Certainly Helen de Vallorbes is there,” he answered. “That is why I go. I
                        want to see her. It is inconsistent, I admit, for Helen remains the one
                        person gloriously untouched by the wreck of the former order of things. Pray
                        let there be no misconception on that point. She belonged to the ideal
                        order, she belongs to it still.”
                    
                    “Ah, my dear, my dear!” Katherine almost cried. His perversity hurt her a
                        little too much so that the small, upspringing flame of decent pride was
                        quenched.
                    “Yes,” he went on, “there was my initial, my cardinal, mistake. For I was a
                        traitor to all that was noblest and best in me, when I persuaded myself, and
                        weakly permitted you to persuade me, that a loveless marriage is better than
                        a love in which marriage is impossible,—that Lady Constance Quayle, poor
                        little soul, bought, paid for, and my admitted property, could fill Helen’s
                        place,—though Helen was—and I intend her to remain so, for I care for her
                        enough to hold her honour as sacred as I do your own—for ever
                        inaccessible.”
                    Lady Calmady staggered to her feet.
                    “That is enough, Richard,” she said. “That is enough. If you have more to
                        say, in pity leave it until to?morrow.”
                    The young man looked at her strangely.
                    “You are ill, mother,” he said.
                    “No, no, I am only broken?hearted,” she replied. “And a broken heart, alas!
                        never killed so healthy a body as mine. I shall survive this—and more
                        perhaps. God knows. Do not vex yourself about me, Dickie.—Go, live your life
                        as it seems fit to you. I have not the will, even had I the right, to
                        restrain you. And meanwhile I will be the steward of your goods, as, long
                        ago, when you were a child and belonged to me wholly. You can trust me to be
                        faithful and discreet, at least in financial and practical matters. If you
                        ever need me, I will come even to the ends of the earth. And should the
                        desire take you to return, here you will find me.—And so, good?bye, my
                        darling. I am foolishly tired. I grow light?headed, and dare not linger,
                        lest in my weakness I say that which I afterwards regret.”
                    She passed to the door and went out, without looking back.
                    Left to himself Richard Calmady crossed to the writing?table, swung himself
                        up into the revolving chair, and remained there sorting and docketing papers
                        far into the night. But once, stooping, with long?armed adroitness, to
                        unlock the lowest drawer of the table, a madness of disgust towards the
                        unsightliness of his own person seized on and tore him.
                    “O God, God, God!” he cried aloud, in the extremity of his passion, “why hast
                        Thou made me thus?”
                    And to that question, as yet, there was no answer, though it rang afar over
                        the sleeping park, and up to the clear shining stars of the profound and
                        peaceful summer night.
                
            
            
            
                BOOK V
                RAKE’S PROGRESS
                
                    CHAPTER I
                    IN WHICH THE READER IS COURTEOUSLY ENTREATED TO GROW OLDER BY
                        THE SPACE OF SOME FOUR YEARS, AND TO SAIL SOUTHWARD HO! AWAY
                    THE south?easterly wind came fresh across the bay from the crested
                        range of the Monte Sant’ Angelo. The blossoms of the Judas?trees, breaking
                        from the smooth grey stems and branches—on which they perch so quaintly—fell
                        in a red?mauve shower upon the slabs of the marble pavement, upon the mimic
                        waves of the fountain basin, and upon the clustering curls, and truncated
                        shoulders, of the bust of Homer standing in the shade of the grove of
                        cypress and ilex which sheltered the square, high?lying hill?garden, at this
                        hour of the morning, from the fierceness of the sun. They floated as far
                        even as the semicircular steps of the pavilion on the extreme right—the
                        leaded dome of which showed dark and livid on the one side, white and
                        glistering on the other, against the immense and radiant panorama of
                        mountain, sea, and sky.
                    The garden, its fountains, neatly clipped shrubs, and formal paved alleys,
                        was backed by a large villa of the square, flat?roofed order common to
                        southern Italy. The record of its age had recently suffered modification by
                        application of a coat of stucco, of a colour intermediate between faint
                        lemon?yellow and pearl?grey, and by the renovation of the fine
                        arabesques—Pompeian in character—decorating the narrow interspaces between
                        its treble range of Venetian shutters. Otherwise the aspect of the Villa
                        Vallorbes showed but small alteration since the year when, for a few
                        socially historic weeks, the “glorious Lady Blessington,” and her strangely
                        assorted train, condescended to occupy it prior to taking up their residence at the Palazzo
                        Belvedere near by. The walls were sufficiently massive to withstand a siege.
                        The windows of the ground floor, set in deeply?hewn ashlar work, were
                        cross?barred as those of a prison. Above, the central windows and door of
                        the entresol opened on to a terrace of black and white marble, from which,
                        at either end, a wide, shallow?stepped, curved stairway led down into the
                        garden. The first floor consisted of a suite of noble rooms, each of whose
                        lofty windows gave on to a balcony of wrought ironwork, very ornate in
                        design. The topmost storey, immediately below the painted frieze of the
                        parapet, coincided in height and in detail with the entresol.
                    The villa was superbly situated upon an advancing spur of hill; so that,
                        looking down from its balconies, looking out from between the pale and
                        slender columns of the pavilion, the whole city of Naples lay revealed
                        below.—Naples, that bewildering union of modern commerce and classic
                        association—its domes, its palms, its palaces, its crowded, hoarse?shouting
                        quays, its theatres and giant churches, its steep and filthy lanes black
                        with shadow, its reeking markets, its broad, sun?scorched piazzas, its
                        glittering, blue waters, its fringing forest of tall masts, and innumerable,
                        close?packed hulls of ocean?going ships! Naples, city of glaring
                        contrasts—heaven of rascality, hell of horses, unrivalled all the western
                        world over for natural beauty, for spiritual and moral grossness! Naples,
                        breeding, teeming, laughing, fighting, festering, city of music, city of
                        fever and death! Naples, at once abominable and enchanting—city to which,
                        spite of noise, stenches, cruelty and squalor, those will return, of
                        necessity, and return again, whose imagination has once been taken captive
                        in the meshes of her many?coloured net.
                    And among the captives of Naples, on the brilliant morning in question in the
                        early spring of the year 1871, open?eared and open?eyed to its manifest and
                        manifold incongruities, relishing alike the superficial beauty and
                        underlying bestiality of it, was very certainly Helen de Vallorbes. Several
                        years had elapsed since she had visited this fascinating locality; and she
                        could congratulate herself upon conditions adapted to a more intimate and
                        comprehensive acquaintance with its very various humours than she had ever
                        enjoyed before. She had spent more than one winter here, it is true,
                        immediately subsequent to her marriage. But she had then been required to
                        associate exclusively with the members of her husband’s family, and to fill
                        a definite position in the aristocratic society of the place. The tone of
                        that society was not a little lax. Yet, being notably defective in the saving grace of humour—as to the
                        feminine portion of it, at all events—its laxity proved sadly deficient in
                        vital interest. The fair Neapolitans displayed as small intelligence in
                        their intrigues as in their piety. In respect of both they remained
                        ignorant, prejudiced, hopelessly conventional. Their noble ancestresses of
                        the Renaissance understood and did these things better—so Helen reflected.
                        She found herself both bored and irritated. She feared she had taken up her
                        residence in southern Italy quite three centuries too late.
                    But all that was in the past—heaven be praised for it! Just now she was her
                        own mistress, at liberty—thanks to the fortunes of war—to comport herself as
                        she pleased and obey any caprice that took her. The position was ideal in
                        its freedom, while the intrinsic value of it was enhanced by contrast with
                        recent disagreeable experiences. For the alarms and deprivations of the
                        siege of Paris were but lately over. She had come through them unscathed in
                        health and fortune. Yet they had left their mark. During those months of
                        all?encompassing disappointment and disaster the eternal laughter—in which
                        she trusted—had rung harshly sardonic, to the breaking down of
                        self?confidence, and light?hearted, cynic philosophy. It scared her
                        somewhat. It made her feel old. It chilled her with suspicion of the
                        actuality of The Four Last Things—death and judgment, heaven and hell. The
                        power of a merry scepticism waxed faint amid the scream of shells and
                        long?drawn, murderous crackle of the mitrailleuse. Helen, indeed, became actively superstitious,
                        thereby falling low in her own self?esteem. She took to frequenting
                        churches, and spending long, still days with the nuns, her former teachers,
                        within the convent of the Sacré Cœur. Circumstances so worked upon her that
                        she made her submission, and was solemnly and duly received back into the
                        fold of the Church. She confessed ardently, yet with certain politic
                        reservations. The priest, after all, is but human. It is only charitable to
                        be considerate of his feelings—so she argued—and avoid overburdening his
                        conscience, poor dear man, by blackening your own reputation too violently!
                        The practice of religion was a help—truly it was, since it served to pass
                        the time. And then, who could tell but that it might not prove really useful
                        hereafter, as, when all is said and done, those dread Four Last Things will
                        present themselves to the mind in hours of depression with haunting
                        pertinacity. It is clearly wise, then, to be on the safe side of Holy Church
                        in these matters, accepting her own assertion that she is very certainly on
                        the safe side of the Deity.
                    Yet, notwithstanding her pious exercises, Helen de Vallorbes found existing circumstances excessively
                        disturbing and disquieting. She was filled with an immense self?pity. She
                        feared her health was failing. She became nervously sensible of her
                        eight?and?twenty years, telling herself that her youth and the glory of it
                        had departed. She wore black dresses, rolled bandages, pulled lint.
                        Selecting Mary Magdalene as her special intercessor, she made a careful
                        study of the life and legends of that saint. This proved stimulating to her
                        imagination. She proceeded to write a little one?act drama concerning the
                        holy woman’s dealings, subsequent to her conversion, quite late in life in
                        fact, with such as survived of her former lovers. The dialogue was very
                        moving in parts. Helen read it aloud one bleak January evening, by the light
                        of a single candle, to her friend M. Paul Destournelle, poet and
                        novelist—with whom just then, by her own desire, her relations were severely
                        platonic—and they both wept. The application, though delicate, was obvious.
                        And those tears appeared to lay the dust of so many pleasant sins, and
                        promise fertilisation of so heavy a crop of virtue, that—by inevitable
                        action of the law of contraries—the two friends found it more than ever
                        difficult to say farewell and part that night.
                    Now looking back on all that, viewing it calmly in perspective, her action
                        and attitude struck Helen as somewhat imbecile. Prayer and penitence have
                        too often a tendency to kick the beam when fear ceases to weight the
                        balance. And so it followed that the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eye,
                        and the pride of life, presented themselves to her as powers by no means
                        contemptible, or unworthy of invocation, this morning, while she sat at the
                        luxuriously furnished breakfast?table beneath the glistering dome of the
                        airy pavilion and gazed out between its slender columns, over the curving
                        lines of the painted city and glittering waters of the bay, to the cone of
                        Vesuvius rising, in imperial purple, against the azure sky. To?day, sign, as
                        she noted, of fine weather, omen, as she trusted, of good fortune, the smoke
                        of its everlasting burnings towered up and up into the translucent
                        atmosphere, and then drifted away—a gigantic, wedge?shaped pennon—toward
                        Capri and the open sea. And, beholding these things, out of simple, physical
                        well?being, fulness of bread, conviction of her own undiminished beauty, and
                        the merry devilry begotten of these, she fell to projecting a second, a
                        companion, one?act drama founded upon the life of the Magdalene, but, this
                        time, before the saint’s conversion, at an altogether earlier stage of her
                        very instructive history. And this drama she would not read to M.
                        Destournelle—not a bit of it. In it he should have neither part nor lot.
                        Registering which determination, she shook her charming, honey?coloured head, holding up both
                        hands with a gesture of humorous and well?defined repudiation.
                    For, in truth, the day of M. Destournelle appeared, just now, to be very
                        effectually over. It had been reasonable enough to urge her natural fears in
                        journeying through a war?distracted land—although guarded by Charles, most
                        discreet and resourceful of English men?servants, and Zélie Forestier, most
                        capable of French lady’s?maids—as excuse for Paul Destournelle joining her
                        at a wayside station a short distance out of Paris and accompanying her
                        south. À la guerre comme à la guerre. A
                        beautiful woman can hardly be too careful of her person amid the many and
                        primitive dangers which battle and invasion let loose. De Vallorbes
                        himself—detestably jealous though he was—could hardly have objected to her
                        thus securing effective protection, had he been acquainted with the fact.
                        That he was not so acquainted was, of course, the veriest oversight. But,
                        the frontier once reached—the better part of three weeks had elapsed in the
                        reaching of it—and all danger of war and tumult past, both the necessity
                        and, to be frank, the entertainment of M. Destournelle’s presence became
                        less convincing. Helen grew a trifle weary of his transports, his
                        suspicions, his bel tête de Jesu
                        souffrant, his insatiable literary and personal vanity. The charm,
                        the excitement, of the situation, began to wear rather threadbare, while the
                        practical inconveniences and restrictions it imposed increasingly disclosed
                        themselves. A lover, as Helen reflected, provided you see enough of him,
                        offers but small improvement upon a husband. He is liable to become
                        possessive and didactic, after the manner of the natural man. He is liable
                        to forget that the relation is permitted, not legalised; that it exists on
                        sufferance merely, and is therefore terminable at the will of either party.
                        The last days of that same southern journey had been marked by
                        misunderstandings and subsequent reconciliations, in an ascending scale of
                        acrimony and fervour on the part of her companion. In Helen’s case
                        familiarity tended very rapidly to breed contempt. She ceased to be in the
                        least amused by these recurring agitations. At Pisa, after a scene of a
                        particularly excited nature, she lost all patience, frankly told her admirer
                        that she found him not a little ridiculous, and requested him to remove
                        himself, his grievances, and his bel tête de
                            Jesu elsewhere. M. Destournelle took refuge in nerves, threats
                        of morphia, and his bed?chamber,—in the chaste seclusion of which apartment
                        Helen left him, unvisited and unconsoled, while, attended by her servants,
                        she gaily resumed her journey.
                    
                    An adorable sense of independence possessed her, of the charm of her own
                        society, of the absence of all external compelling or directing of her
                        movements—no circumscription of her liberty possible—the world before her
                        where to choose! Not only were privations, dismal hauntings of siege and
                        slaughter, left behind, and M. Destournelle, just now most wearisome of
                        lovers, left behind also, but de Vallorbes himself had, for the time being,
                        become a permissibly negligible quantity. The news of more fighting, more
                        bloodshed, had just reached her, though the German armies were marching back
                        to the now wholly German Rhine. For upon unhappy Paris had come an hour of
                        deeper humiliation than any which could be procured by the action of foreign
                        foes. She was a kingdom divided against herself, a mother scandalously torn
                        by her own children. News had reached Helen too, news special and highly
                        commendatory, of her husband, Angelo Luigi Francesco. Early in that eventful
                        struggle he had enlisted in the Garde Mobile, all the manhood and honest
                        sentiment resident in him stirred into fruitful activity by the shame and
                        peril of his adopted country. Now Helen learned he had distinguished himself
                        in the holding of Chatillon against the insurgents, had been complimented by
                        MacMahon upon his endurance and resource, had been offered, and had
                        accepted, a commission in the regular army. Promotion was rapid during the
                        later months of the war, and probability pointed to the young man having
                        started on a serious military career.
                    “Well, let him both start and continue,” Helen commented. “I am the last
                        person to be otherwise than delighted thereat. Just in proportion as he is
                        occupied he ceases to be inconvenient. If he succeeds—good. If he is
                        shot—good likewise. For him laurels and a hero’s tomb. For me crape and
                        permanent emancipation. An agreeably romantic conclusion to a profoundly
                        unromantic marriage—fresh proof, were such needed, of the truth of the
                        immortal Dr. Pangloss saying, that ‘all is for the best in this best of all
                        possible worlds!’”
                    In such happy frame of mind did Madame de Vallorbes continue during her visit
                        to Florence and upon her onward way to Perugia. But there self?admiration
                        ceased to be all?sufficient for her. She needed to read confirmation of that
                        admiration in other eyes. And the grey Etruscan city, uplifted on its
                        star?shaped hill, offered her a somewhat grim reception. Piercing winds
                        swept across the Tiber valley from the still snow?clad Apennines above
                        Assisi. The austere, dark?walled, lombard?gothic churches and palaces showed
                        forbidding, merciless almost, through the
                        driving wet. Even in fair summer weather suspicion of ancient and implacable
                        terror lurks in the shadow of those cyclopean gateways, and stalks over the
                        unyielding, rock?hewn pavements of those solemn, mediæval streets. There was
                        an incalculable element in Perugia which raised a certain anger in Helen.
                        The place seemed to defy her and make light of her pretensions. As during
                        the siege of Paris, so now, echoes of the eternal laughter saluted her ears,
                        ironic in tone.
                    Nor was the society offered by the residents in the hotel, weather?bound like
                        herself, of a specially enlivening description. It was composed almost
                        exclusively of middle?aged English and American ladies—widows and
                        spinsters—of blameless morals and anxiously active intelligence. They
                        wrapped their lean forms in woollen shawls and ill?cut jackets. They
                        pervaded salon and corridors guide?book in hand. They discoursed of Umbrian
                        antiquities, Etruscan tombs, frescoes and architecture. Having but little
                        life in themselves, they tried, rather vainly, to warm both hands at the
                        fire of the life of the past. Among them, Helen, in her vigorous and
                        self?secure, though fine?drawn, beauty, was about as much at home as a young
                        panther in a hen?roost. They admired, they vaguely feared, they greatly
                        wondered at her. Had one of those glorious young gallants, Baglioni or Oddi,
                        clothed in scarlet, winged, helmeted, sword on thigh, as Perugino has
                        painted them on the walls of the Sala del Cambio—very strangest union of
                        sensuous worldliness and radiant, arch?angelic grace—had one of these
                        magnificent gentlemen ruffled into the hotel parlour, he could hardly have
                        startled the eyes, and perplexed the understanding, of the virtuous and
                        learned Anglo?Saxon and Transatlantic feminine beings there assembled more
                        than did Madame de Vallorbes.
                    For all such sexless creatures, for the great company of women in whose
                        outlook man plays no immediate or active part, Helen had, in truth, small
                        respect. They appeared to her so absurdly inadequate, so contemptibly
                        divorced from the primary interests of existence. More than once, in a
                        spirit of mischievous malice, she was tempted to bid the good ladies lay
                        aside their Baedekers and Murrays, and increase their knowledge of the
                        Italian character and language by study of the Novelle of Bandello, or of certain merry tales to be found in
                        the pages of the Decameron. She had copies of both works in her
                        travelling?bag. She was prepared, moreover, to illustrate such ancient saws
                        by modern instances, for the truth of which last she could quite honestly
                        vouch. But on second thoughts she spared her victims. The quarry was not
                        worth the chase. What self? respecting
                        panther can, after all, go a?hunting in a hen?roost? So from the
                        neighbourhood of their unlovely clothes, questioning glances, and
                        under?vitalised pursuit of art and literature, she removed herself to her
                        sitting?room upstairs. Charles should serve her meals there in future; for
                        to sit at table with these neuters, clothed in amorphous garments, came near
                        upsetting her digestion.
                    Meanwhile, as she watched the rain streaming down the panes of the big
                        windows, watched thin?legged, heavily?cloaked figures tacking,
                        wind?buffeted, across the grey?black street into the shelter of some
                        cavernous port cochère, it must be owned
                        her spirits went very sensibly down into her boots. Even the presence of the
                        despised and repudiated Destournelle would have been grateful to her.
                        Remembrance of all the less successful episodes of her career assaulted her.
                        And in that connection, of necessity, the thought of Brockhurst returned
                        upon her. For neither the affair of her childhood—that of the little dancer
                        with blush?roses in her hat—or the other affair—of now nearly four years
                        back—the intimate drama frustrated, within sight of its climax, by
                        intervention of Lady Calmady—could be counted otherwise than as failures. It
                        was strange how deep?seated was her discontent under this head. As on Queen
                        Mary’s heart the word Calais, so on hers Brockhurst, she sometimes thought,
                        might be found written when she was dead. In the last four years Richard had
                        given her princely gifts. He had treated her with a fine, old?world
                        chivalry, as something sacred and apart. But he rarely sought her society.
                        He seemed, rather carefully, to elude her pursuit. His name was not exactly
                        a patent of discretion and rectitude in these days unfortunately. Still
                        Helen found his care of her reputation—as far as association of her name
                        with his own went—somewhat exaggerated. She could hardly believe him to be
                        indifferent to her, and yet— Oh! the whole matter was unsatisfactory,
                        abominably unsatisfactory—of a piece with the disquieting influences of this
                        grim and fateful city, with the detestable weather evident there
                        without!
                    And then, suddenly, an idea came to Helen de Vallorbes, causing the delicate
                        colour to spring into her cheeks, and the light into her eyes, veiled by
                        those fringed, semitransparent lids. For, some two years earlier, Richard
                        Calmady had taken her husband’s villa at Naples on lease, it offering, as he
                        said, a convenient pied à terre to him
                        while yachting along the adjacent coasts, up the Black Sea to Odessa, and
                        eastward as far as Aden, and the Persian Gulf. The house, save for the
                        actual fabric of it, had become rather dilapidated and ruinate. To  de Vallorbes it appeared clearly
                        advantageous to get the property off his hands, and touch a considerable
                        yearly sum, rather than have his pocket drained by outgoings on a place in
                        which he no longer cared to live. So the Villa Vallorbes passed for the time
                        being into Richard Calmady’s possession. It pleased his fancy. Helen heard
                        he had restored and refurnished it at great expenditure of money and of
                        taste.
                    These facts she recalled. And, recalling them, found both the actuality of
                        rain?blurred, wind?scourged town without, and anger?begetting memories of
                        Brockhurst within, fade before a seductive vision of sun?bathed Naples and
                        of that nobly placed and painted villa, in which—as it seemed to her—was
                        just now resident promise of high entertainment, the objective delight of
                        abnormal circumstance, the subjective delight of long?cherished revenge. All
                        the rapture of her existing freedom came back on her; while her brain,
                        fertile in forecast of adventure, projected scenes and situations not
                        unworthy of the pen of Boccaccio himself. Fired by such thoughts, she moved
                        from the window, stood before a tall glass at right angles to it and
                        contemplated her own fair reflection long and intimately. An absorbing
                        interest in the general effect, and in the details, of her person possessed
                        her. She moved to and fro observing the grace of her carriage, the set of
                        her hips, the slenderness of her waist. She unfastened her soft, trailing
                        tea?gown, throwing the loose bodice of it back, critically examining her
                        bare neck, the swell of her beautiful bosom, the firm contours of her arms
                        from shoulder to elbow. Her skin was of a clear, golden whiteness, smooth,
                        fine in texture, as that of a child. Placing her hands on the gilded frame
                        of the mirror, high up on either side, she observed her face, exquisitely
                        healthful in colour, even as seen in this mournful, afternoon light. She
                        leaned forward, gazing intently into her own eyes—meeting in them, as
                        Narcissus in the surface of the fatal pool, the radiant image of herself.
                        And this filled her with a certain intoxication, a voluptuous self?love, a
                        profound persuasion of the power and completeness of her own beauty. She
                        caressed her own neck, her own lips, with lingering finger?tips. She bent
                        her bright head and kissed the swell of her cuplike breasts. Never had she
                        received so entire assurance of the magic of her own personality.
                    “It is all—all, as perfect as ever!” she exclaimed exultantly. “And while it
                        remains perfect, it should be made use of.”
                    Helen waved her hand, smiling, to the smiling image in the mirror.
                    “You and I together—your beauty and my brains—I pit the pair of us against all mankind! Together we
                        have worked pretty little miracles before now, causing the proud to lay
                        aside their pride and the godly their virtue. A man of strange passions
                        shall hardly escape us—nor shall the mother that bare him escape
                        either.”
                    Her face hardened, her laughing eyes paled to the colour of fine steel. She
                        lifted the soft?curling hair from off her right temple, disclosing a small,
                        crescent?shaped scar.
                    “That is the one blemish, and we will exact the price of it?you and I—to the
                        ultimate sous.”
                    Then she moved away, smitten by sudden amusement at her own attitude, which
                        she perceived risked being slightly ridiculous. Heroics were, to her
                        thinking, unsuitable articles for home consumption. Yet her purpose held
                        none the less strongly and steadily because excitement lessened. She
                        refastened her tea?gown, tied the streaming azure ribbons of it, patted bows
                        and laces into place, walked the length of the room a time or two to recover
                        her composure, then rang the bell. And, on the arrival of
                        Charles,—irreproachably correct in dress and demeanour, his clean?shaven,
                        sharp?featured, rakish countenance controlled to praiseworthy nullity of
                        expression,—she said:—
                    “The weather is abominable.”
                    The man?servant set down the tray on a little table before her, turned out
                        the corners of the napkin, deftly arranged the tea?things.
                    “It is a little dull, my lady.”
                    “How is the glass?”
                    “Falling steadily, my lady.”
                    “I cannot remain here.”
                    “No, my lady?”
                    “Find out about the trains south—to Naples.”
                    “Yes, my lady. We can join the Roman express at Chiusi. When does your
                        ladyship wish to start?”
                    “I must telegraph first.”
                    “Certainly, my lady.”
                    Charles produced telegraph forms. It was Helen’s boast that, upon request,
                        the man could produce any known object from a packet of pins to a white
                        elephant, or fully manned battleship. She had a lively regard for her
                        servant’s ability. So had he, it may be added, for that of his mistress. The
                        telegram was written and despatched. But the reply took four days in
                        reaching Madame de Vallorbes, and during those days it rained incessantly.
                        The said reply came in the form of a letter. Sir Richard Calmady was at
                        Constantinople, so the writer —Bates, his
                        steward—had reason to believe. But it was probable he would return to Naples
                        shortly. Meanwhile he—the steward—had permanent orders to the effect that
                        the villa was at Madame de Vallorbes’ disposition should she at any time
                        express the wish to visit it. She would find everything prepared for her
                        reception. This information caused Helen singular satisfaction. It was very
                        charming, very courteous, of Richard thus to remember her. She set forth
                        from Perugia full of ingenious purpose, deliciously light of heart.
                    Thus did it come about that, on the afore?mentioned gay, spring morning,
                        Madame de Vallorbes breakfasted beneath the glistering dome of the airy
                        pavilion, all Naples outstretched before her, while the blossoms of the
                        Judas?trees fell in a red?mauve shower upon the slabs of the marble
                        pavement, and the mimic waves of the fountain basin, and upon the clustered
                        curls and truncated shoulders of the bust of Homer stationed within the soft
                        gloom of the ilex and cypress grove. She had arrived the previous evening,
                        and had met with a dignified welcome from the numerous household. Her manner
                        was gracious, kindly, captivating—she intended it to be all that. She slept
                        well, rose in buoyant health and spirits, partook of a meal offering example
                        of the most finished Italian cooking. Finish, in any department, appealed to
                        Helen’s artistic sense. Life was sweet—moreover it was supremely
                        interesting! Her breakfast ended, rising from her place at table, she looked
                        away to the purple cone of the great volcano and the uprising of the smoke
                        of its everlasting burnings. The sight of this, magnificent, menacing,
                        evidence of the anarchic might of the powers of nature, quickened the pagan
                        instinct within her. She wanted to worship. And even in so doing, she became
                        aware of a kindred something in herself—of an answering and anarchic energy,
                        a certain menace to the conventional works and ways, and fancied security,
                        of groping, purblind man. The insolence of a great lady, the dangerously
                        primitive instincts of a great courtesan, filled her with an enormous pride,
                        a reckless self?confidence.
                    Turning, she glanced back across the formal garden, bright with waxen
                        camellias set in glossy foliage, with early roses, with hyacinths, lemon and
                        orange blossom, towards the villa. Upon the black?and?white marble
                        balustrade a man leaned his elbows. She could see his broad shoulders, his
                        bare head. From his height she took him, at first, to be kneeling, as,
                        motionless, he looked towards her and towards the splendid view. Then she
                        perceived that he was not kneeling, but standing upright. She understood, and a very vital sensation ran right
                        through her, causing the queerest turn in her blood.
                    “Mercy of heaven!” she said to herself, “is it conceivable that now, at this
                        time of day, I am capable of the egregious folly of losing my head?”
                
                
                    CHAPTER II
                    WHEREIN TIME IS DISCOVERED TO HAVE WORKED CHANGES
                    HELEN, however, did not stay to debate as to the state of her
                        emotions. She had had more than enough of reflection of late. Now action
                        invited her. She responded. The sweep of her turquoise?blue, cloth skirts
                        sent the fallen Judas?blossoms dancing, to left and right, in crazy whirling
                        companies. She did not wait even to put on her broad?brimmed, garden
                        hat,—the crown of it encircled, as luck would have it, by a garland of pale,
                        pink tulle and pale, pink roses,—but braved the sunshine with no stouter
                        head?covering than the coils of her honey?coloured hair. Rapidly she passed
                        up the central alley between the double row of glossy leaved camellia
                        bushes, laughter in her downcast eyes and a delicious thrill of excitement
                        at her heart. She felt strong and light, her being vibrant, penetrated and
                        sustained throughout by the bracing air, the sparkling, crystal?clear
                        atmosphere. Yet for all her eagerness Helen remained an artist. She would
                        not forestall effects. Thriftily she husbanded sensations. Thus, reaching
                        the base of the black?and?white marble wall supporting the terrace, where,
                        midway in its long length, it was broken by an arched grotto of rough?hewn
                        stonework, in which maiden?hair fern rooted,—the delicate fronds of it
                        caressing the shoulders of an undraped nymph, with ever?dripping
                        water?pitcher upon her rounded hip,—Helen turned sharp to the left, and
                        arrived at the bottom of the descending flight of steps without once looking
                        up. That Richard Calmady still leaned on the bulustrade, some twelve to
                        fourteen feet above that same cool, green grotto, she knew well enough. But
                        she did not choose to anticipate either sight or greeting of him. Both
                        should come to her as a whole. She would receive a single and unqualified
                        impression.
                    So, silently, without apparent haste, she passed up the flight of shallow
                        steps on to the edge of the wide, black?and?white, chequerboard platform. It
                        was sun?bathed, suspended, as it seemed, between that glorious prospect of
                        city, mountain, sea, and the unsullied
                        purity of the southern heavens. It was vacant, save for the solitary figure
                        and the sharp?edged, yet amorphous, shadow cast by that same figure. For the
                        young man had moved as she came up from the garden below. He stood clear of
                        the balustrade, only the fingers of his left hand resting upon the handrail
                        of it. Seeing him thus, the strangeness, the grotesque incompleteness, of
                        his person struck her as never before. But this, though it did not move her
                        to mirth, as in her childhood, moved her to pity no more now than it then
                        had. That which it did was to deepen, to stimulate, her excitement, to
                        provoke and to satisfy the instinct of cruelty latent in every pagan nature
                        such as hers. Could Helen have chosen the moment of her birth she would have
                        been a great lady of Imperial Rome, holding power of life and death over her
                        slaves, and the mutes and eunuchs with which the East should have furnished
                        her palace in the eternal city, and her dainty villa away there on the
                        purple flanks of Vesuvius at Herculaneum or Pompeii. The delight of her own
                        loveliness, of her own triumphant health and activity, would have been
                        increased tenfold by the sight of, by power over, such stultified and
                        hopelessly disfranchised human creatures. And the first sight of Richard
                        Calmady now, though she did not stop very certainly to analyse the exact how
                        and why of her increasing satisfaction, took its root in this same craving
                        for ascendency by means of the suffering and loss of others. While,
                        unconsciously, the fine flavour of her satisfaction was heightened by the
                        fact that the victim, now before her, was her equal in birth, her superior
                        in wealth, in intelligence and worldly station.
                    But, as she drew nearer, Richard the while making no effort to go forward and
                        receive her, buoyant self?complacency and self?congratulation suffered
                        diminution. For, rehearsing this same meeting during those rain?blotted days
                        of waiting at Perugia, imagination had presented Dickie as the
                        inexperienced, tender?hearted, sweet?natured lad she had known and beguiled
                        at Brockhurst four years earlier. As has already been stated her meetings
                        with him, since then, had been brief and infrequent. Now she perceived that
                        imagination had played a silly trick upon her. The boy she had left, the man
                        who stood awaiting her so calmly were, save in one distressing peculiarity,
                        two widely different persons. For, in the interval, Richard Calmady had
                        eaten very freely of the fruit of the Tree of the Knowledge of Good and
                        Evil, and that diet had left its mark not only on his character, but on his
                        appearance. He had matured notably, all trace of ingenuous, boyish charm
                        having vanished. His skin, though darkened
                        by recent sea?faring, was colourless. His features were at once finer and
                        more pronounced than of old—the bone of the face giving it a noticeable
                        rigidity of outline, index at once of indomitable will and irreproachable
                        breeding. The powerful jaw and strong muscular neck might have argued a
                        measure of brutality. But happily the young man’s mouth had not coarsened.
                        His lips were compressed, relaxing rarely into the curves which, as a lad,
                        had rendered his smile so peculiarly engaging. Still there was no trace of
                        grossness in their form or expression. Hard living had, indeed, in Richard’s
                        case, been matter of research rather than of appetite. The intellectual part
                        of him had never fallen wholly into bondage to the animal. He explored the
                        borders of the Forbidden hoping to find some anodyne with which to assuage
                        the ache of a vital discontent, rather than by any compulsion of natural
                        lewdness.
                    Much of this quick?witted Helen quickly apprehended. He was cleverer, more
                        serious, and mentally more distinguished, than she had supposed him. And
                        this, while opening up new sources of interest and pricking her ambition of
                        conquest, disclosed unforeseen difficulties in the way of such conquest.
                        Moreover, she was slightly staggered by the strength and inscrutability of
                        his countenance, the repose of his bearing and manner. His eyes affected her
                        oddly. They were cold and clear as some frosty, winter’s night, the pupils
                        of them very small. They seemed to see all things, yet tell nothing. They
                        were as windows opening onto endless perspectives of empty space. They at
                        once challenged curiosity and baffled inquiry. Helen’s excitement deepened,
                        and she was sensible it needed all the subjective support, all the indirect
                        flattery, with which the fact of his deformity supplied her self?love to
                        prevent her standing in awe of him. As consequence her address was impulsive
                        rather than studied.
                    “Richard, I have had a detestable winter,” she said. “It wore upon me. It
                        demoralised me. I was growing dull, superstitious even. I wanted to get
                        away, to put a long distance between myself and certain experiences, certain
                        memories. I wanted to hear another language. You have always been
                        sympathetic to me. It was natural, if a little unconventional, to take
                        refuge with you.”
                    Madame de Vallorbes spoke with an unaccustomed and very seductive air of
                        apology, her face slightly flushed, her arms hanging straight at her sides,
                        the long, pink, tulle strings of the hat she carried in her left hand
                        trailing upon the black?and?white squares of the pavement.
                    
                    “To do so seemed obvious in contemplation. I did not stop to consider
                        possible objections. But, in execution, the objections become hourly more
                        glaringly apparent. I want you to reassure me. Tell me I have not dared too
                        greatly in coming thus uninvited?”
                    “Of course not,” he answered. “I hope you found the house comfortable and
                        everything prepared for you? The servants had their orders.”
                    “I know, I know. That you should have provided against the possibility of my
                        coming some day moved me a little more than I care to tell you.”—Helen
                        paused, looking upon him, and that look had in it a delicate affinity to a
                        caress. But the young man’s manner, though faultlessly courteous, was
                        lacking in any hint of enthusiasm. Helen could have imagined, and that
                        angered her, something of irony in his tone.
                    “Oh, there’s no matter for thanks,” he said. “The house was yours, will be
                        yours again. The least I can do, since you and de Vallorbes are good enough
                        to let me live in it meanwhile, is to beg you to make any use you please of
                        it. Indeed it is I, rather than you, who come uninvited just now. I had not
                        intended being back here for another month. But there was a case of
                        something suspiciously like cholera on board my yacht at Constantinople, and
                        it seemed wisest to get away to sea as soon as possible. One of the
                        firemen—oh, he’s all right now.—Still I shall send him home to England. He’s
                        a married man—the only one I have on board. A useful fellow, but he must go.
                        I don’t choose to take the responsibility of creating the widow and the
                        fatherless whenever one of my crew chances to fall sick and depart into the
                        unknown.”
                    Richard talked on, very evidently for the mere sake of passing the ’time. And
                        all the while those eyes, which told nothing, dwelt quietly upon Helen de
                        Vallorbes until she became nervously impatient of their scrutiny. For it was
                        not at all thus that she had pictured and rehearsed this meeting during
                        those days of waiting at Perugia!
                    “We got in last night” he continued. “But I slept on board. I heard you had
                        just arrived, and I did not care to run the risk of disturbing you after
                        your journey.”
                    “You are very considerate,” Helen remarked.
                    She was surprised out of all readiness of speech. This new Richard impressed
                        her, but she resented his manner. He took her so very much for granted.
                        Admiration and homage were to her as her daily bread, and that any man
                        should fail to offer them caused her frank amazement. It did more. It raised
                            in her a longing to inflict pain. He
                        might not admire, but at least he should not remain indifferent. Therefore
                        she backed a couple of steps, so as to get a good view of Richard Calmady.
                        And, without any disguise of her purpose, took a comprehensive and leisurely
                        survey of his dwarfed and mutilated figure. While so doing she pinned on her
                        rose?trimmed hat, and twisted the long, tulle strings of it about her
                        throat.
                    “You have altered a good deal, Richard,” she said reflectively.
                    “Probably,” he answered. “I had a good deal to learn, being a very
                        thin?skinned, young simpleton. In part, anyhow, I have learned it. And I do
                        my best practically to apply my knowledge. But if I have altered, so,
                        happily, have not you.”
                    “I remain a simpleton?” she inquired, her irritation finding voice.
                    “You cannot very well remain that which you never have been. What you do
                        remain is—if I may say so—victoriously yourself, unspoiled, unmodified by
                        contact with that singularly stupid invention, society, true to my earliest
                        recollections of you even”—Richard shuffled closer to the balustrade, threw
                        his left arm across it, grasping the outer edge of the broad coping,—“even
                        in small details of dress.”
                    He looked away over the immense and radiant prospect, and then up at the
                        radiant woman in her vesture of turquoise, pink, and gold.
                    And, so doing, for the first time his face relaxed, being lighted up by a
                        flickering, mocking smile. And something in his shuffling movements, in the
                        fine irony of his expression, pierced Helen with a sensation hitherto
                        unknown, broke up the absoluteness of her egotism, stirred her blood. She
                        forgot resentment in an absorbed and absorbing interest. The ordinary man of
                        the world she knew as thoroughly as her old shoe. Such an one presented
                        small field of discovery to her. But this man was unique in person, and
                        promised to be so in character also. Her curiosity regarding him was
                        profound. For the moment it sunk all personal considerations, all humorous
                        or angry criticism, either of her own attitude towards him or of his
                        attitude towards her. Silently she came forward, sat down on the marble
                        bench, close to where he stood, and, turning sideways, leaned her elbows
                        upon the top of the balustrade beside him. She looked up now, rather than
                        down at him; and it went home to her, had nature spared him infliction of
                        that hideous deformity, what a superb creature physically he would have
                        been! There was a silence, Helen remaining
                        intent, quiet, apprehension and imagination sensibly upon the stretch.
                    At last Richard spoke abruptly.
                    “By the way, did you happen to observe the decorations of your room? Do you
                        like them?”
                    “Yes and no,” she answered. “They struck me as rather wonderful, but liable
                        to induce dreams of Scylla and Charybdis, of the Fata Morgana, and other
                        inconvenient accidents of the deep. Fortunately I was too tired last night
                        to be excursive in fancy, or I might have slept badly. You have gathered all
                        the colours of the ocean and fixed them, somehow, on those carpets and
                        hangings and strangely frescoed walls.”
                    “You saw that?”
                    “How could I fail to see it, since you kindly excuse me of being, or ever
                        having been, a simpleton?”—Helen spoke lightly, tenderly almost. An
                        overmastering desire to please had taken her. “You have employed a certain
                        wizardry in the furnishing of that room,” she continued. “It lays subtle
                        influences upon one. What made you think of it?”
                    “A dream, an idea, which has stuck by me queerly, though all other fond
                        things of the sort were pitched overboard long ago. I suppose one is bound
                        to be illogical on one point, if only to prove to oneself the absolutism of
                        one’s logic on all others. Thus do I, otherwise sane and consistent realist,
                        materialist, pessimist, cling to my one dream and ideal—take it out, dandle
                        it, nourish and cherish it, with weakly sentimental faithfulness. To do so
                        is ludicrous. But then my being here at all, calmly considered, is
                        ludicrous. And it, too, is among the results of the one idea.”
                    He paused, and Helen, leaning beside him, waited. The sunshine covered them
                        both. The sea wind was fresh in their faces. While the many voices of Naples
                        came up to them confused, strident, continuous, with sometimes a bugle?call,
                        sometimes a clang of hammers, or quick pulse of stringed instruments, or
                        jangle of church?bells, or long?drawn bellow of a steamship clearing for
                        sea, detaching itself from the universal chorus. Capri, Ischia, Procida,
                        floated, islands of amethyst, upon the sapphire of the bay, and the smoke of
                        Vesuvius rolled ceaselessly upward.
                    “You see and hear and feel all this?” Richard continued presently. “Well,
                        when I saw it for the first time I was pretty thoroughly out of conceit with
                        myself and all creation. I had been experimenting freely in things not
                        usually talked of in polite society. And I was abominably sold, for I found
                        the enjoyment such things procure is
                        decidedly overrated. Unmentionable matters, once fully explored, are just as
                        tedious and inadequate as those which supply the most unexceptionable
                        subjects of conversation. Moreover, in the process of exploration I had
                        touched a good deal of pitch, and, the simpleton being still superfluously
                        to the fore in me, I was squeamishly sensible of defilement.”
                    The young man shifted his position slightly, resting his chin in the hollow
                        of his hands, speaking quietly and indifferently, as of some matter foreign
                        to himself and his personal interests.
                    “I have reason to believe I was as fairly and squarely wretched as it is
                        possible for an intelligent being to be. I had convinced myself,
                        experimentally, that human existence, human nature, was a bottomless pit and
                        an uncommonly filthy one at that. Reaction was inevitable. Then I understood
                        why men have invented gods, subscribed to irrational systems of theology,
                        hailed and accredited transparently ridiculous miracles. Such lies are
                        necessary to certain stages of development simply for the preservation of
                        sanity, just as, at another stage, sanity, for its own preservation, is
                        necessarily driven to declare their falsehood. And so I, after the manner of
                        my kind, was driven to take refuge in a dream. The subjective, in some form
                        or other, alone makes life continuously possible. And all this we now look
                        at determined the special nature of my attempt at subjective support and
                        consolation.”
                    Richard paused again, contemplating the view.
                    “All this—its splendour, its diversity, its caprices and seductions, its
                        suggestion of underlying danger—presented itself to me as the embodiment of
                        a personality that has had remarkable influence in the shaping of my
                        life.”
                    So far Helen had listened intently and silently. Now she moved a little,
                        straightening up her charming figure, pulling down the wide brim of her hat
                        to shelter her eyes from the heat and brightness of the sun.
                    “A woman?” she asked briefly.
                    Richard turned to her, that same flickering of mockery in his still face.
                    “Oh! you mustn’t require too much of me!” he said. “Remember the simpleton
                        was not wholly eradicated then.—Yes, very much a woman. Of course. How
                        should it be otherwise? It gave me great pleasure to look at that which
                        looked like her. It gives me pleasure even yet. So I wrote and asked de
                        Vallorbes to be kind enough to let me rent the villa. You remember it was
                        not particularly well cared for. There was an air of fallen greatness about the poor place. Inside it was
                        something of a barrack.”
                    “I remember,” Helen said.
                    “Well, I restored and refurnished it—specially the rooms you now occupy—in
                        accordance with what I imagined to be her taste. The whole proceeding was
                        not a little feeble?minded, since the probability of her ever inhabiting
                        those rooms was more than remote. But it amused, it pacified me, as prayer
                        to their self?invented deities pacifies the devout. I never stay here for
                        long together. If I did the spell might be broken. I go away, I travel. I
                        even experiment in things not usually spoken of; but with a cooler judgment
                        and less morbidly sensitive conscience than of old. I amuse myself after
                        more active and practical fashions in other places. Here I amuse myself only
                        with my idea.”
                    The even flow of his speech ceased.—“What do you think of it, Helen?” he
                        demanded, almost harshly.
                    “I think it can’t last. It is too intangible, too fantastic.”
                    “I admit that to keep it intact needs an infinity of precautions. For
                        instance, I can make no near acquaintance with Naples. I cannot permit
                        myself to see the town at close quarters. I only look at it from here. If I
                        want to go to or from the yacht, I do so at night and in a closed carriage.
                        I took on de Vallorbes’ box at the San Carlo. If any good opera is given I
                        go and hear it. Otherwise I remain exclusively in the house and garden. I am
                        not acquainted with a single soul in the place.”
                    “And the woman?” Helen exclaimed, a singular emotion at once of envy and
                        protest upon her. “Do you treat her with the same cold?blooded
                        calculation?”
                    “Of the woman I know just as much and just as little as I know of Naples. It
                        is conceivable there may be unlovely elements in her character, as well as
                        unlovely quarters of this beautiful city. I have avoided knowledge of both.
                        You see the whole arrangement is designed not for her benefit, but for my
                        own. It’s an elaborate piece of self?seeking on my part; but, so far, it has
                        really worked rather successfully.”
                    “It is preposterous. It cannot in the nature of things continue successful,”
                        Helen declared.
                    “I am not so sure of that,” he replied calmly. “Even the most preposterous of
                        religious systems proves to have a remarkable power of survival. Why not
                        this one? In any case, neither the success nor the failure depends on me. I
                        shall be true, on my part. The rest depends on her.”
                    As Richard spoke he turned, leaning his back against the balustrade, his face away from the sunlight and
                        the wide view. Again the extent of his deformity became arrestingly apparent
                        to Madame de Vallorbes.
                    “Has this woman ever been here?” she asked.
                    “Yes—she has been here.”
                    “And then? And then?” Helen cried.
                    The young man looked up at her, his face keen yet impassive, his eyes—as
                        windows opening onto endless perspectives of empty space—telling nothing.
                        She recognised, once again, that he was very strong. She also recognised
                        that, notwithstanding his strength, he was horribly sad.
                    “Ah! then,” he said, “the last of the poor, little, subjective supports and
                        consolations seemed in danger of going overboard and joining their fellows
                        in the uneasy deeps of the sea.—But the history of that will keep till a
                        more convenient season, Cousin Helen. You have stood in the mid?day sun, and
                        I have talked about myself, quite long enough. However, it was only fair to
                        acquaint you with the limited resources in the way of society and amusement
                        offered by your present dwelling. There are horses and carriages of course.
                        Give what orders you please. Only remember both the town and the surrounding
                        country are pretty rough. It is not fit for a lady to drive by herself.
                        Always take your own man, or one of mine, with you if you go out. I hope you
                        won’t be quite intolerably bored. Ask for whatever you want.—You let me dine
                        with you? Thanks.”
                
                
                    CHAPTER III
                    HELEN DE VALLORBES APPREHENDS VEXATIOUS COMPLICATIONS
                    FOUR gowns lay outspread upon the indigo?purple, embroidered
                        coverlet of the bed. The after?glow of an orange and crimson sunset touched
                        the folds of them, ranged upward to the vaultings of the frescoed ceiling,
                        and stained the lofty walls as with the glare of a furnace. Sea?greens,
                        sea?blues, died in the heat of it, abashed and vanquished. But so did not
                        Madame de Vallorbes’ white lawn and lace peignoir, or her abundant hair, which Zélie Forestier—trim of
                        figure, and sour of countenance—was in the act of dressing. These caught the
                        fiery light and held it, so that from head to foot Helen appeared as an
                        image of living gold. Sitting before the toilet?table, her reflection in the
                        great, oval mirror pleased her.
                    
                    “Which shall I wear?”
                    “That depends upon the length of time madame proposes to stay here. The black
                        dress might be worn on several occasions with impunity. The peacock brocade,
                        the eau de Nil, the crocus yellow, but
                        once—twice at the uttermost. They are ravishing costumes, but wanting in
                        repose. They are unsuited for frequent repetition.”
                    Zélie’s lean fingers twisted, puffed, pinned, the shining hair very
                        skilfully.
                    “I will put on the black dress.”
                    “Relieved by madame’s parure of pink
                        topaz?”
                    “Yes, I will wear the pink topazes.”
                    “Then it will be necessary to modify the style of madame’s coiffure.”
                    “There is plenty of time.”
                    Helen took a hand?glass from the table and leaned forward in the low,
                        round?backed chair—faithful copy of a fine classic model. She wanted to see
                        the full glory of the after?glow upon her profile, upon her neck and bosom.
                        Thus might Cassiopeia, glass in hand, in her golden chair sit in high
                        heaven!—Helen smiled at the pretty conceit. But the glory was already
                        departing. Sea?blues, sea?greens, sad by contrast, began to reassert their
                        presence on walls and carpet and hangings.
                    “The black dress? Madame decides to remain then?”
                    As she spoke the lady’s?maid laid out the jewels,—chains, bracelets,
                        brooches,—each stone set in a rim of tiny rose?knots of delicate
                        workmanship. As she fingered them little, yellow?pink flames seemed to dance
                        in their many facets. Then the after?glow died suddenly. The flames ceased
                        to dance. Helen’s white garments turned livid, her neck and bosom grey—and
                        that, somehow, was extremely unpleasing to Madame de Vallorbes.
                    “Light the candles,” she said, almost sharply. “Yes, I remain. Do hurry,
                        Zélie. It is impossible to see. I detest darkness. Hurry. Do you suppose I
                        want to stay here all night? And look—you must bring that chain farther
                        forward. It is not graceful. Make it droop. Let it follow the line of my
                        hair so that the pendant may fall there, in the centre. You have it too much
                        to the right. The centre—the centre—I tell you. There, let the drop just
                        clear my forehead.”
                    Thus admonished the Frenchwoman wound the jewels in her mistress’ hair. But
                        Madame de Vallorbes remained dissatisfied. The day had been one of
                        uncertainty, of conflicting emotions; and Helen’s love of unqualified
                        purposes was great. Confusion in others
                        was highly diverting. But in herself—no thank you! She hated it. It touched
                        her self?confidence. It endangered the absoluteness of her self?belief and
                        self?worship. And these once shaken, small superstitions assaulted her. In
                        trivial happenings she detected indication of ill?luck. Now Zélie’s long,
                        narrow face, divided into two unequal portions by a straight bar of black
                        eyebrow, and her lean hands as reflected in the mirror, awoke unreasoning
                        distrust. They appeared to be detached from the woman’s dark?clothed person,
                        the outlines of which were absorbed in the increasing dimness of the room.
                        The sallow face moved, peered, the hands clutched and hovered, independent
                        and unrelated, about Helen’s graceful head.
                    “For pity’s sake, more candles, Zélie!” she repeated. “You. look absolutely
                        diabolic in this uncertain light.”
                    “In an instant, madame. I am compelled first to fix this curl in place.”
                    She accomplished the operation with most admired deliberation, and moved away
                        more than once, to observe the effect, before finally adjusting the
                        hair?pin.
                    “I cannot but regret that madame is unable to wear her hair turned back from
                        the face. Such an arrangement confers height and an air of spirituality,
                        which, in madame’s case, would be not only becoming but advantageous.”
                    Helen skidded the hand?glass down upon the dressing?table, causing confusion
                        amid silver?topped pots and bottles, endangering a jar of hyacinths,
                        upsetting a tray of hair?pins.
                    “Have I not repeatedly given you orders never to allude to that subject?” she
                        cried.
                    The maid was on her knees calmly collecting the scattered contents of the
                        tray.
                    “A thousand pardons, madame,” she said, with a certain sour impudence.
                        “Still, it must ever be a matter of regret to anyone truly appreciating
                        madame’s style of beauty, that she should be always constrained to wear her
                        hair shading her forehead.”
                    Modern civilisation imposes restrictions even upon the most high?spirited. At
                        that moment Madame de Vallorbes was ripe for the commission of atrocities.
                        Had she been—as she coveted, to be—a lady of the Roman decadence it would
                        have gone hard with her waiting?woman, who might have found herself ordered
                        for instant execution or summarily deprived of the organs of speech. But,
                        latter?day sentiment happily forbidding such active expressions of
                        ill?feeling on the part of the employer towards the employed, Helen was
                        forced to swallow her wrath, reminding
                        herself, meanwhile, that a confidential servant is either most invaluable of
                        friends or most dangerous of enemies. There is no viâ media in the relation. And Zélie as an enemy was not to
                        be thought of. She could not—displeasing reflection—afford to quarrel with
                        Zélie. The woman knew too much. Therefore Madame de Vallorbes took refuge in
                        lofty abstraction; while the tiresome uncertainties, the conflicting
                        inclinations of the past day, quick to seize their opportunity,—as is the
                        habit of such discourteous gentry,—returned upon her with redoubled
                        importunity and force.
                    She had not seen Richard since parting with him at noon, the enigmatic
                        suggestions of his conversation still unresolved, the alternate resentment
                        at his apparent indifference and attraction of his strong and somewhat
                        mysterious personality still vitally present to her. Later, she had driven
                        out to Pozzuoli. But neither stone?throwing urchins, foul and
                        disease?stricken beggars, the pale sulphur plains and subterranean rumblings
                        of the Solfaterra, nor stirring of nether fires therein resident by a lanky,
                        wild?eyed lad—clothed in leathern jerkin and hairy, goatskin leggings—with
                        the help of a birch broom and a few local newspapers, served effectually to
                        rouse her from inward debate and questioning. The comfortable, cee?spring
                        carriage might swing and sway over the rough, deep?rutted roads behind the
                        handsome, black, long?tailed horses, the melodramatic?looking coachman might
                        lash stone?throwing urchins and anathematise them, their ancestors and
                        descendants, alike, to the third and fourth generation in the vilest,
                        Neapolitan argot, Charles might resort to physical force in the removal of
                        wailing, alms?demanding, vermin?eaten wrecks of humanity, but still Helen
                        asked herself only—should she go? Should she stay? Was the game worth the
                        candle? Was the risk, not only of social scandal, but of possible ennui worth the projected act of revenge? And
                        worth something more than that. For revenge, it must be owned, already took
                        a second place in her calculations. Worth, namely, the enjoyment of possible
                        conquest, the humiliation of possible defeat and rejection, by that
                        strangely coercive, strangely inscrutable being, her cousin, Dickie
                        Calmady?
                    No man had ever impressed her thus. And she returned on her thought, when
                        first seeing him upon the terrace that morning, that she might lose her
                        head. Helen laughed a little bitterly. She, of all women, to lose her head,
                        to long and languish, to entreat affection, and to be faithful—heaven help
                        us! faithful, could it ever come to that?—like any sentimental schoolgirl,
                        like—and the thought turned her not a little wicked—like Katherine Calmady herself! And then, that other
                        woman of whom Richard had told her with a cynical disregard of her own
                        claims to admiration, who on earth could she be? She reviewed those ladies
                        with whom gossip had coupled Richard’s name. Morabita, the famous prima donna, for instance. But surely, it was
                        inconceivable that mountain of fat and good?nature, with the voice of a
                        seraph, granted, but also with the intellect of a frog, could ever inspire
                        so fantastic and sublimated a passion! And passing from these less
                        legitimate affairs of the heart—in which rumour accredited Richard with
                        being very much of a pluralist—her mind travelled back to the young man’s
                        projected marriage with Lady Constance Decies, sometime Lady Constance
                        Quayle. Remembering the slow, sweet baby?face and gentle, heifer’s eyes, as
                        she had seen them that day at luncheon at Brockhurst, nearly five years ago,
                        she again laughed.—No, very certainly there was no affinity between the
                        glorious and naughty city of Naples and that mild?natured, well?drilled,
                        little, English girl! Who was it then—who? But, whoever the fair unknown
                        rival might be, Helen hated her increasingly as the hours passed, regarding
                        her as an enemy, a creature to be exterminated, and swept off the board.
                        Jealousy pricked her desire of conquest. An intrigue with Richard Calmady
                        offered singular, unique, attractions. But the force of such attractions was
                        immensely enhanced by the excitement of wresting his affections away from
                        another woman.
                    Suddenly, in the full swing of these meditations, as she reviewed them for
                        the hundredth time, Zélie’s voice claimed her attention.
                    “I made the inquiries madame commanded.”
                    “Well?” Helen said. She was standing fastening clusters of topaz in the bosom
                        of her dress.
                    “The servants in this house are very reserved. They are unwilling to give
                        information regarding their master’s habits. I could only learn that Sir
                        Richard occupies the entresol. Communicating as it does with the garden, no
                        doubt it is convenient to a gentleman so afflicted as himself.”
                    Helen bowed herself together, while the black lace and China?crape skirt
                        slipped over her head. Emerging from which temporary eclipse, she said:—
                    “But do people stay here much? Does my cousin entertain? That is what I told
                        you to find out.”
                    “As I tell madame, the servants are difficult of approach. They are very
                        discreet. They fear their master, but they also adore him. Charles can
                        obtain little more information than
                        myself. But he infers that Sir Richard, when at the villa, lives in
                        retirement—that he is subject to fits of melancholy. There will be little
                        diversion for madame it is to be feared! But what would you have? Even
                        though one should be young and rich ce ne serait que
                            peu amusant d’être estropié d’être monstre enfin!”
                    Helen drew in her breath with a little sigh of content when taking a final
                        look at herself in the oval glass. The soft, floating draperies, the many
                        jewels, each with its heart of quick, yellow?pink light, produced a
                        combination at once sombre and vivid. It satisfied her sense of artistic
                        fitness. Decidedly she did well to begin with the black dress, since it had
                        in it a quality rather of romance than of worldliness! Meanwhile Zélie,
                        kneeling, straightened out the folds of the long train.
                    “Ah!” she exclaimed. “I had forgotten also to inform madame that M.
                        Destournelle has arrived in Naples. Charles, thinking of nothing less than
                        such an encounter, met him this morning on the quay of the Santa Lucia.”
                    Helen wheeled round violently, much to the discomfiture of those carefully
                        adjusted folds.
                    “Intolerable man!” she cried. “What on earth is he doing here?”
                    “That, Charles naturally could not inquire.—Will madame kindly remain
                        tranquil for a moment? She has torn a small piece of lace which must be
                        controlled by a pin. Probably monsieur is
                        still en voyage, is visiting friends as is
                        madame herself.”
                    A sudden distrust that the black dress was too mature, that it constituted an
                        admission of departing youth, invaded Helen. The reflection in the oval
                        mirror once more caused her discomfort.
                    “Tell Charles that I am no longer acquainted with M. Destournelle. If he
                        presumes to call he is to be refused.”
                    Helen set her teeth. But whether in anger towards her discarded lover, or the
                        black dress, she would have found it difficult to declare. Again uncertainty
                        held her, suspicion of circumstance, and, in a degree, of herself. The
                        lady’s?maid, imperturbable, just conceivably impertinent in manner, had
                        risen to her feet.
                    “There,” she said, “it will be secure for to?night, if madame will exercise a
                        moderate degree of caution and avoid abrupt movements. Charles says that
                            monsieur inquired very urgently after
                        madame. He appeared dejected and in weak health. He was agitated on meeting
                        Charles. He trembled. A little more and he would have wept. It would be
                        well, perhaps, that madame should give Charles her orders regarding monsieur herself.”
                    
                    “You should not have made me wear this gown,” Helen broke out inconsequently.
                        “It is depressing, it is hideous. I want to change it.”
                    “Impossible. Madame is already a little late, and there is nothing wrong with
                        the costume. Madame looks magnificent. Also her wardrobe is, at present,
                        limited. The evening dresses will barely suffice for a stay of a week, and
                        it is not possible for me to construct a new one under ten days.”
                    Thereupon an opening of doors and voice from the anteroom, announcing:—
                    “Dinner is served, my lady. Sir Richard is in the dining?room.”
                    And Helen swept forward, somewhat stormy and Cassandra?like in her dusky
                        garments. Passing out through the high narrow doorway, she turned her
                        head.
                    “Charles, under no circumstance—none, understand—am I at home to Monsieur
                        Destournelle.”
                    “Very good, my lady,” and, as he closed the double?doors, the man?servant
                        looked at the lady’s?maid his tongue in his cheek.
                    But, on the journey through the noble suite of rooms, Helen’s spirits revived
                        somewhat. Her fair head, her warm glancing jewels, her graceful and measured
                        movements, as given back by many tall mirrors, renewed her self?confidence.
                        She too must be fond of her own image, by the way, that unknown rival to the
                        dream of whose approval Richard Calmady had consecrated these splendid
                        furnishings—witness the multiplicity of looking?glasses!—And then the
                        prospect of this tête?á?tête dinner, the
                        interest of her host’s powerful and enigmatic personality, provoked her
                        interest to the point not only of obliterating remembrance of the ill?timed
                        advent of her ex?lover, but of inducing something as closely akin to
                        self?forgetfulness as was possible to her self?centred nature. She grew
                        hotly anxious to obtain, to charm—if it might be to usurp the whole field of
                        Richard’s attention and imagination.
                    A small round table showed as an island of tender light in the dimness of the
                        vast room. And Richard, sitting at it awaiting her coming, appeared more
                        nearly related to the Richard of Brockhurst and of five years ago than he
                        had done during the interview of the morning. In any case, she took him more
                        for granted. While he, if still inscrutable and unsmiling, proved an
                        eminently agreeable companion, ready of conversation, very much at his ease,
                        very much a cultivated man of the world, studious—a little excessively so,
                        she thought—in his avoidance of the personal note. And this at once
                            piqued Helen, and incited her to
                        intellectual effort. If this was what he wanted, well, he should have it! If
                        he elected to talk of travel, of ancient and alien religions, of modern
                        literature and art, she could meet him more than half way. Her intelligence
                        ran nimbly from subject to subject, from point to point. She struck out
                        daring hypotheses, indulged in ingenious paradox, her mind charmed by her
                        own eloquence, her body comforted by costly wines and delicate meats. Nor
                        did she fail to listen also, knowing how very dear to every man is the sound
                        of his own voice, or omit to offer refined flattery of quick agreement and
                        seasonable laughter. It was late when she rose from the table at last.
                    “I have had a delightful dinner,” she said. “Absolutely delightful. And now I
                        will encroach no longer on your time or good?nature, Richard. You have your
                        own occupations, no doubt. So, with thanks for shelter and generous
                        entertainment, we part for to?night.”
                    She held out her hand smiling, but with an admirable effect of discretion,
                        all ardour, all intimacy, kept in check by self?respect and well?bred
                        dignity. Madame de Vallorbes was enchanted with the reserve of her own
                        demeanour. Let it be understood that she was the least importunate, the
                        least exacting, the most adaptable, of guests!
                    Richard took her outstretched hand for the briefest period compatible with
                        courtesy. And a momentary spasm—so she fancied—contracted his face.
                    “You are very welcome, Helen,” he said. “If it is warm let us breakfast in
                        the pavilion to?morrow. Twelve—does that suit you? Good?night.”
                    Upon the inlaid writing?table in the anteroom, Helen found a long and
                        impassioned epistle from Paul Destournelle. Perusal of it did not minister
                        to peaceful sleep. In the small hours she left her bed, threw a silk
                        dressing?gown about her, drew aside the heavy, blue?purple window curtain
                        and looked out. The sky was clear and starlit. Naples, and its curving lines
                        of innumerable lights, lay outstretched below. In the south?east, midway
                        between the two, a blood?red fire marked the summit of Vesuvius. While in
                        the dimly seen garden immediately beneath—the paved alleys of which showed
                        curiously pale, asserting themselves against the darkness of the flower
                        borders, and otherwise impenetrable shadows of the ilex and cypress grove—a
                        living creature moved, black, slow of pace, strange of shape. At first Helen
                        took it for some strayed animal. It alarmed her, exciting her to wildest
                        conjectures as to its nature and purpose, wandering in the grounds of the
                            villa thus. Then, as it passed beyond
                        the dusky shade of the trees, she recognised it. Richard Calmady shuffled
                        forward, haltingly, to the terminal wall of the garden, leaned his arms on
                        it, looking down at the beautiful and vicious city and out into the
                        night.
                    Helen de Vallorbes shivered—the marble floor striking up chill, for all the
                        thickness of the carpet, to her bare feet. Her eyes were hard with
                        excitement and her breath came very quick. Suddenly, yielding to an impulse
                        of superstitious terror, she dragged the curtains together, shutting out
                        that very pitiful sight, and, turning, fled across the room and buried
                        herself, breathless and trembling, between the sheets of the soft, warm,
                        faintly fragrant bed.
                    “He is horrible,” she said aloud, “horrible! And it has come to me at last.
                        It has come—I love—I love!”
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV
                    “MATER ADMIRABILIS”
                    “THERE, there, my good soul, don’t blubber! Hysterics won’t restore
                        Lady Calmady to health, or bring Sir Richard back to England, home, and
                        duty, or be a ha’porth of profit to yourself or any other created being.
                        Keep your tears for the first funeral. For I tell you plainly I shan’t be
                        surprised out of seven days’ sleep if this business involves a visit to the
                        churchyard before we get to the other side of it.”
                    John Knott stood with his back to the Chapel?Room fire, his shoulders up to
                        his ears, his hands forced down into the pockets of his riding?breeches.
                        Without, black?thorn winter held the land in its cheerless grasp. The spring
                        was late. Night frosts obtained, followed by pallid, half?hearted sunshine
                        in the early mornings, too soon obliterated by dreary, easterly blight. This
                        afternoon offered exception to the rule only in the additional discomfort of
                        small, sleeting rain and a harsh skirling of wind in the eastward?facing
                        casements.—“Livery weather,” the doctor called it, putting down his existing
                        lapse from philosophic tolerance to insufficient secretions of the biliary
                        duct.
                    Before him stood Clara—sometime. Dickie Calmady’s devoted nurse and
                        playfellow—her eyes very bright and moist, the reds and whites of her fresh
                        complexion in lamentable disarray.
                    “I’d never have believed it of Sir Richard,” she asserted chokingly. “It
                        isn’t like him, so pretty as he was in all his little ways, and loving to her ladyship, and
                        civilly behaved to everybody, and careful of hurting anybody’s feelings—more
                        so than you’d expect in a young gentleman like him. No! it isn’t like him.
                        In my opinion he’s been got hold of by some designing person, who’s worked
                        on him to keep him away to serve their own ends. There, I’d never have
                        believed it of him, that I wouldn’t!”
                    The doctor’s massive head sank lower, his massive shoulders rose higher, his
                        loose lips twisted into a snarling smile.
                    “Lord bless you, that’s nothing new! We none of us ever do believe it of them
                        when the little beggars are in long clothes, or first breeched for that
                        matter. It’s a trick of Mother Nature’s—one?idead old lady, who cares not a
                        pin for morality, but only for increase. She knows well enough if we did
                        believe it of them we should clear them off wholesale, along with the blind
                        kittens and puppies. A bucket full of water, and broom to keep them under,
                        would make for a mighty lessening of subsequent violations of the Decalogue!
                        Don’t tell me King Herod was not something of a philanthropist when he got
                        to work on the infant population of Bethlehem. One woman wept for each of
                        the little brats then; but his Satanic Majesty only knows how many women
                        wouldn’t have had cause to weep for each one of them later, if they’d been
                        spared to grow up.”
                    While speaking, Dr. Knott kept his gaze fixed upon his companion. His humour
                        was none of the gentlest truly, yet he did not let that obscure the main
                        issue. He had business with Clara, and merely waited till the reds and
                        whites of her comely face should have resumed their more normal relations
                        before pursuing it. He talked, as much to afford her opportunity to overcome
                        her emotion, as to give relief to his own. Though now well on the wrong side
                        of sixty, John Knott was hale and vigorous as ever. His rough?hewn
                        countenance bore even closer resemblance, perhaps, to that of some stone
                        gargoyle carved on cathedral buttress or spout. But his hand was no less
                        skilful, his tongue no less ready in denunciation of all he reckoned humbug,
                        his heart no less deeply touched, for all his superficial irascibility, by
                        the pains, and sins, and grinding miseries, of poor humanity, than of
                        old.
                    “That’s right now,” he said approvingly, as the heaving of Clara’s bosom
                        became less pronounced. “Wipe your eyes, and keep your nerves steady. You’ve
                        got a head on your shoulders—always had. Well, keep it screwed on the right
                        way; for you’ll need all the common sense that is in it if we are to pull
                        Lady Calmady through. Do?—To begin with this, give her food every two hours or so. Coax her, scold her,
                        reason with her, cry even.—After all, I give you leave to, just a little, if
                        that will serve your purpose and not make your hand shake—only make her take
                        nourishment. If you don’t wind up the clock regularly, some fine morning
                        you’ll find the wheels have run down.”
                    “But her ladyship won’t have anyone sit up with her.”
                    “Very well, then sleep next door. Only go in at twelve and two, and again
                        between five and six.”
                    “But she won’t have anybody occupy the dressing?room. It used to be the night
                        nursery you remember, sir, and not a thing in it has been touched since Sir
                        Richard moved down to the Gun?Room wing.”
                    “Oh, fiddle?de?dee! It’s just got to be touched now, then. I can’t be
                        bothered with sentiment when it’s ten to one whether I save my patient.”
                    Again sobs rose in Clara’s throat. The poor woman was hard pressed. But that
                        fixed gaze from beneath the shaggy eyebrows was upon her, and, with quaint
                        gurglings, she fought down the sobs.
                    “My lady’s as gentle as a lamb,” she said, “and I’d give the last drop of my
                        blood for her. But talk of managing her, of making her do anything, as well.
                        try to manage the wind, she’s that set in her ways and obstinate!”
                    “If you can’t manage her, who can?—Mr. March?”
                    Clara shook her head. Then reluctantly, for though honestly ready to lay down
                        her life for her mistress, she found it far from easy to invite supersession
                        in respect of her, she said:—“Miss St. Quentin’s more likely to get round my
                        lady than anyone else.”
                    “Well, then, I’ll talk to her. Where is Miss St. Quentin?”
                    “Here, Dr. Knott. Do you want me?”
                    Honoria had strolled into the room from the stairhead, her attention arrested
                        by the all?too?familiar sound—since sorrowful happenings often of late had
                        brought him to Brockhurst—of the doctor’s voice. The skirt of the young
                        lady’s habit, gathered up in her left hand, displayed a slightly
                        unconventional length of muddy riding?boot. The said skirt, her tan, covert
                        coat, and slouched, felt hat, were furred with wet. Her garments, indeed,
                        showed evident traces of hard service, and, though notably well cut, were
                        far from new or smart. They were sad?coloured, moreover, as is the fashion
                        of garments designed for work. And this weather?stained, mud?bespattered
                        costume, taken in connection with her pale, sensitive face, her gallant
                        bearing, and the luminous smile with which she greeted not only Dr. Knott
                            but the slightly flustered Clara,
                        offered a picture pensive in tone, but very harmonious, and of a singularly
                        sincere and restful quality. To all, indeed, save those troubled by an
                        accusing conscience and fear of detection, Honoria St. Quentin’s presence
                        brought a sense of security and reassurance at this period of her
                        development. Her enthusiasms remained to her; but they were tempered by a
                        wider experience and a larger charity—at least in the majority of cases.
                    “I’m in a beastly mess,” she observed casually.
                    “So are we,” Knott answered.—He had a great liking for this young lady,
                        finding in her a certain stoicism along with a quickness of practical help.
                        “But our mess is worse than yours, in that it is internal rather than
                        external. Yours’ll brush off. Not so ours—eh, Clara? There, you can go. I’ll
                        talk things over with Miss St. Quentin, and she’ll talk ’em over with you
                        later.”
                    Honoria’s expression had grown anxious. She spoke in a lower tone of
                        voice.
                    “Is Lady Calmady worse?”
                    “In a sense, yes—simply because she is no better. And she’s ill, I tell you,
                        just as dangerously ill as any woman can be who has nothing whatever
                        actually the matter with her.”
                    “Except an only son,” put in Honoria. “I am beginning to suspect that is
                        about the most deadly disease going. The only thing to be said in its favour
                        is that it is not infectious.”
                    John Knott could not quite keep admiration from his eyes, or provocation from
                        his tongue. He richly enjoyed getting a rise out of Miss St. Quentin.
                    “I am not so sure of that,” he said. “In the case of beautiful women, judging
                        by history, it has shown a tendency to be recurrently sporadic in any
                        case.”
                    “Recommend all such to spend a few months at Brockhurst then, under existing
                        circumstances!” Honoria answered. “There will be very little fear for them
                        after that; they will have received such a warning, swallowed such an
                        antidote!—It is like assisting at the infliction of slow torture. It almost
                        gets on one’s brain at times.”
                    “Why do you stay on then?”
                    Honoria looked down at her muddy boots and then across at the doctor. She was
                        slightly the taller of the two, for in these days his figure had fallen
                        together and he had taken to stooping. Her expression had a delightful touch
                        of self?depreciation.
                    “Why does anyone stay by a sinking ship, or volunteer for a forlorn hope? Why do you sit up all night with
                        a case of confluent smallpox, or suck away the poisonous membrane from a
                        diphtheritic throat, as I hear you did only last week? I don’t know. Just
                        because, if we are made on certain lines, we have to, I suppose. One would
                        be a trifle too much ashamed to be seen in one’s own company, afterwards, if
                        one deserted. It really requires less pluck to stick than to run—that’s the
                        reason probably.—But about dear Lady Calmady. The excellent Clara was in
                        tears. Is there any fresh mischief over and above the only son?”
                    “Not at present. But it’s an open question how soon there may be.—Good?day,
                        Mr. March. Been riding? Ought to be a bit careful of that cranky chest of
                        yours in this confounded weather.—Lady Calmady?—Yes, as I was telling Miss
                        St. Quentin, her strength is so reduced that complications may arise any
                        day. A chill, and her lungs may go, a shock, and her heart. It comes to a
                        mere question of the point of least resistance. I won’t guarantee the
                        continued soundness of any one organ unless we get changed conditions, a let
                        up of some sort.”
                    The doctor looked up from under his eyebrows, first at Honoria and then at
                        Julius. He spoke bitterly, defiant of his inclination towards
                        tenderness.
                    “She’s just worn herself out,” he said, “that’s the fact, in the service of
                        others, loving, giving, attempting the impossible in the way of goodness all
                        round. ‘Be not righteous over much’—there’s a text to that effect in the
                        Scriptures, Mr. March, isn’t there? Preach a good, rattling sermon on it
                        next Sunday to Lady Calmady, if you want to keep her here a bit longer.
                        Nature abhors a vacuum. Granted. But nature abhors excess, even of virtue.
                        And punishes it just as harshly as excess of vice.—Yes, I tell you, she’s
                        worn herself out.”
                    Miss St. Quentin dropped into a chair and sat bowed together, her hands on
                        her knees, her feet rather far apart. The brim of her hat, pulled down in
                        front to let the rain run off, partially concealed her face. She was not
                        sorry, for a movement of defective courage was upon her, evidence of which
                        she preferred to keep to herself. Julius March remained silent. And this she
                        resented slightly, for she badly wanted somebody to say something, either
                        vindictive or consolatory. Then, indignation getting the better alike of
                        reticence and charity, she exclaimed:—
                    “It is unpardonable. It ought to be impossible one person should have power
                        to kill another by inches, like this, with impunity.”
                    Ludovic Quayle had sauntered into the room behind Julius March. He too was wet and dirty, but such trifles
                        in no wise affected the completeness of his urbanity. His long neck directed
                        forward, as in polite inquiry, he advanced to the little group by the fire,
                        and took up his station beside Honoria’s chair.
                    “Pardon me, my dear Miss St. Quentin,” he asked sweetly, “but why the
                        allusions to murder? What is unpardonable?”
                    “Sir Richard Calmady’s conduct,” she answered shortly. She threw back her
                        head and addressed Dr. Knott. “It is so detestably unjust. What possible
                        quarrel has he with her, after all?”
                    “Ah! that—that—lies very deep. A thing, perhaps, only a man, or a mother, can
                        quite comprehend,” the doctor answered slowly.
                    Honoria’s straight eyebrows drew together. She objected to extenuating
                        circumstances in this connection, yet, as she admitted, reason usually
                        underlay all Dr. Knott’s statements. She divined, moreover, that reason just
                        now touched upon matters inconveniently intimate. She abstained, therefore,
                        from protest or comment. But, since feminine emotion, even in the least
                        weakly of the sex, is bound to find an outlet, she turned upon poor Mr.
                        Quayle.
                    “He is your friend,” she said. “The rest of us are helpless. You ought to
                        take measures. You ought to suggest a remedy.”
                    “With all the pleasure in life,” the young man answered. “But you may
                        remember that you delivered yourself of precisely the same sentiments a year
                        and a half ago. And that, fired with the ardour of a chivalrous obedience, I
                        fled over the face of the European continent in hot pursuit of poor, dear
                        Dickie Calmady.”
                    “Poor, dear!” ejaculated Honoria.
                    “Yes, very much poor, dear, through it all,” the young man affirmed.
                        “Breathless, but still obedient, I came up with him at Odessa.”
                    “What was he doing there?” put in the doctor.
                    Mr. Quayle regarded him not without humour.
                    “Really, I am not my friend’s keeper, though Miss St. Quentin is pleased to
                        make me a handsome present of that enviable office. And so—well—I didn’t
                        inquire what he was doing. To tell the truth, I had not much opportunity,
                        for though I found him charming,—yes, charming, Miss St. Quentin,—I also
                        found him wholly unapproachable regarding family affairs. When, with a
                        diplomatic ingenuity upon which I cannot but congratulate myself, I suggested the advisability of a return to
                        Brockhurst, in the civilest way in the world he showed me the door.
                        Impertinence is not my forte. I am by
                        nature humble?minded. But, I give you my word, that was a little episode of
                        which I do not crave the repetition.”
                    Growling to himself, clasping his hands behind his back, John Knott shifted
                        his position. Then, taken with that desire of clergy?baiting, which would
                        seem to be inherent in members of the Faculty, he addressed Julius
                        March.
                    “Come now,” he said, “your pupil doesn’t do you an overwhelming amount of
                        credit it must be admitted, still you ought to be able to give an expert’s
                        opinion upon the tendencies of his character. How much longer do you allow
                        him before he grows tired of filling his belly with the husks the swine
                        eat?”
                    “God knows, not I,” Julius answered sadly, but without rancour. “I confess to
                        the faithlessness of despair at times. And yet, being his mother’s son, he
                        cannot but tire of it eventually, and when he does so the revulsion will be
                        final, the restoration complete.”
                    “He’ll die the death of the righteous? Oh yes! I agree there, for there’s
                        fine stuff in him, never doubt that. He’ll end well enough. Only the
                        beginning of that righteous ending, if delayed much longer, may come a bit
                        too late for the saving of my patient’s life and—reason.”
                    “Do you mean it is as serious as all that?” Ludovic asked with sudden
                        anxiety.
                    “Every bit as serious!—Oh! you should have let your sister marry him, Mr.
                        Quayle. Then he would have settled down, come into line with the average,
                        and been delivered from the morbid sense of outlawry which had been growing
                        on him—it couldn’t be helped, on the whole he’s kept very creditably sane in
                        my opinion—from the time he began to mix freely in general society. I’m not
                        very soft or sickly sentimental at my time of day, but I tell you it turns
                        my stomach to think of all he must have gone through, poor chap. It’s a
                        merciless world, Miss St. Quentin, and no one knows that better than we
                        case?hardened old sinners of doctors.—Yes, your sister should have married
                        him, and we might have been saved all this. I doubted the wisdom of the step
                        at the time. But I was a fool. I see now his mother’s instinct was
                        right.”
                    Mr. Quayle pursed up his small mouth and gently shrugged his shoulders.
                    “It is a delicate subject on which to offer an opinion,” he said. “I debated
                        it freely in the privacy of my inner conscious? ness at the time, I assure you. If Lady Calmady
                        had lighted upon the right, the uniquely right, woman—perhaps—yes. But to
                        shore up a twenty?foot, stone wall with a wisp of straw,—my dear doctor,
                        does that proceeding approve itself to your common sense? And, as is a wisp
                        of straw to such a wall, so was my poor, little sister,—it’s hardly
                        flattering to my family pride to admit it,—but thus indeed was she, and no
                        otherwise, to Dickie Calmady.”
                    Whereupon Honoria glanced up gratefully at the speaker, for even yet her
                        conscience pricked her concerning the part she had played in respect of that
                        broken engagement. While John Knott, observant of that upward glance, was
                        once again struck by her manifest sincerity, and the gallant grace of her,
                        heightened by those workmanlike and mud?bespattered garments. And, being so
                        struck, he was once again tempted by, and once again yielded himself to, the
                        pleasures of provocation.
                    “Marry him yourself, Miss St. Quentin,” he growled, a touch of earnest behind
                        his raillery, “marry him yourself and so set the rest of us free of the
                        whole pother. I’d back you to handle him, or any fellow living, with mighty
                        great success if you’d the mind to!”
                    For a moment it seemed open to question whether that very fair fish might not
                        make short work of angler as well as of bait. But Honoria relented, refusing
                        provocation. And this not wholly in mercy to the speaker, but because it
                        offered her an opportunity of reading Mr. Quayle a, perhaps useful, lesson.
                        Her serious eyes narrowed, and her upper lip shortened into a delightful
                        smile.
                    “Hopeless, Dr. Knott!” she answered. “To begin with he’ll never ask me, since
                        we like each other very royally ill. And to end with”—she carefully avoided
                        sight of Mr. Quayle—“I—you see—I’m not what you call a marrying man.”
                
                
                    CHAPTER V
                    EXIT CAMP
                    ABOUT twenty minutes later the young lady, still booted and spurred,
                        opened the door which leads from the Chapel?Room into Lady Calmady’s
                        bed?chamber. As she did so a gentle warmth met her, along with a sweetness
                        of flowers. Within, the melancholy of the bleak twilight was mitigated by the soft brightness of a pink?shaded
                        lamp, and a fitful flickering of firelight. This last, playing upon the
                        blue?and?white, Dutch tiling of the hearth and chimney?space, conferred a
                        quaint effect of activity upon the actors in the biblical scenes thereon
                        depicted. The patriarch Abraham visibly flourished his two?inch sword above
                        the prostrate form of hapless Isaac. The elders pranced, unblushingly, in
                        pursuit of the chaste Susanna. While poor little Tobit, fish in hand, clung
                        anxiously to the flying draperies of his long?legged, and
                        all?too?peripatetic, guardian angel. Such profane vivacity, on the part of
                        persons usually accounted sacred, offered marked and almost cynical contrast
                        to the extreme quiet otherwise obtaining, accentuated the absoluteness,
                        deepened the depth, of it. For nothing stirred within the length and breadth
                        of the room, nor did any smallest sound disturb the prevailing silence. At
                        these southward?facing casements no harsh wind shrilled. The embroidered
                        curtains of the state?bed hung in stiff, straight folds. The many?coloured
                        leaves and branches of the trees of the Forest of This Life were motionless.
                        Care, the leopard, crouched, unobservant, forgetful to spring; while the
                        Hart was fixed spell?bound in the midst of its headlong flight. A spell
                        seemed, indeed, to rest on all things, which had in it more than the
                        watchful hush of the ordinary sick?room. It suggested a certain moral
                        attitude—a quiet, not acquiesced in merely, but promoted.
                    Upon Honoria—her circulation quickened by recent exercise, her cheeks still
                        tingling from the stinging sleet, her retina still retaining impressions of
                        the stern grandeur of the wide?ranging fir woods and grey?brown desolation
                        of the moors—this extreme quiet produced an extremely disquieting effect.
                        Passing from the Chapel?Room and the society of her late companions—all
                        three persons of distinct individuality, all three possessing, though from
                        very differing standpoints, a definitely masculine outlook on life—into this
                        silent bed?chamber, she seemed to pass with startling abruptness from the
                        active to the passive, from the objective to the subjective side of things,
                        from the world that creates to that which obeys, merely, and waits. The
                        present and masculine, with its clear practical reason, its vigorous
                        purposes, was exchanged for a place peopled by memories only, dedicated
                        wholly to submissive and patient endurance. And this fell in extremely ill
                        with Honoria’s present humour; while the somewhat unseemly antics of the
                        small, scriptural personages, pictured upon the chimney?space and hearth,
                        troubled her imagination, in that they added a point of irony to this
                        apparent triumph of the remote over the immediate, of tradition over
                        fact.
                    
                    Nor as, stung by unspoken remonstrance, she approached Lady Calmady was this
                        sense of intrusion into an alien region lessened; or her appreciation of the
                        difficulties of the mission she had been deputed by doctor, priest, and
                        amiable, young fine?gentleman—her late companions—to fulfil, by any means
                        lightened.
                    For Katherine lay back in the great rose?silk and muslin?covered arm?chair,
                        at right angles to the fireplace, motionless, not a participant merely, so
                        it seemed to the intruder, in that all?embracing quiet, but the very source
                        and centre of it, its nucleus and heart. The lines of her figure were
                        shrouded in a loose, wadded gown of dove?coloured silk, bordered with
                        swans?down. A coif of rare, white lace covered her upturned hair. Her eyes
                        were closed, the rim of the eye?socket being very evident. While her face,
                        though smooth and still graciously young, was so emaciated as to appear
                        almost transparent. Now, as often before, it struck Honoria that a very
                        exquisite spiritual quality was present in her aspect—her whole bearing and
                        expression betraying, less the languor and defeat of physical illness, than
                        the exhaustion of long sustained moral effort, followed by the calm of
                        entire self?dedication and renunciation of will.
                    On the table at her elbow were a bowl of fresh?picked violets and
                        greenhouse?grown tea?roses, some books of the hour, both English and French,
                        a miniature of Dickie at the age of thirteen—the proud, little head and its
                        cap of close?cropped curls showing up against a background of thick?set
                        foliage. On the table, too, lay a well?worn, vellum?bound copy of that
                        holiest of books ever, probably, conceived by the heart and written by the
                        hand of man—Thomas à Kempis’ Imitation of Christ. It was open at the chapter
                        which is thus entitled—“Of the Zealous Amendment of our Whole Life.” While
                        close against it was a packet of Richard’s letters—those curt, businesslike
                        communications, faultlessly punctual in their weekly arrival, which, while
                        they relieved her anxiety as to his material well?being, stabbed his
                        mother’s heart only less by the little they said, than by all they left
                        unsaid.
                    And looking upon that mother now, taking cognisance of her surroundings,
                        Honoria St. Quentin’s young indignation, once again, waxed hot. While, since
                        it was the tendency of her mind to run eagerly towards theory, to pass from
                        the particular to the general, and instinctively to apprehend the relation
                        of the individual to the mass, looking thus upon Katherine, she rebelled,
                        not only against the doom of this one woman, but against that doom of
                        universal womanhood of which she offered,
                        just now, only too eloquent an example. And a burning compassion animated
                        Honoria for all feminine as against all masculine creatures; for the bitter
                        patience demanded of the passive, as against the large latitude permitted
                        the active principle; for the perpetual humiliation of the subjective and
                        spiritual under the heavy yoke of the objective and practical; for the brief
                        joy and long barrenness of all those who are condemned to obey and to wait,
                        merely, as against those who are born to command and to create.
                    From a child she had been aware of the element of tragedy inherent in the
                        fact of womanhood. It had quickened exaggerations of sentiment in her at
                        times, and pushed her into not a little knight?errantry,—witness the affair
                        of Lady Constance Quayle’s engagement. But, though more sober in judgment
                        than of old and less ready to set her lance in rest, the existence of that
                        tragic element had never disclosed itself more convincingly to her than at
                        the present moment, nor had the necessity to attempt the assuaging of the
                        smart of it called upon her with more urgent voice. Yet she recognised that
                        such attempt taxed all her circumspection, all her imaginative sympathy and
                        tact. Very free criticism of the master of the house, of his sins of
                        omission and commission alike, were permissible in the Chapel?Room and in
                        the presence of her late companions. The subject, unhappily, had called for
                        too frequent mention, by now, for any circumlocution to be incumbent in the
                        discussion of it. But here, in the brooding quiet of this bed?chamber, and
                        in Lady Calmady’s presence, all that was changed. Trenchant statements of
                        opinion, words of blame, were proscribed. The sinner, if spoken of at all,
                        must be spoken of with due reticence and respect, his wilfulness ignored,
                        the unloveliness of his conduct gently, even eagerly, explained away.
                    And, therefore, it came about that this fair champion of much?wronged
                        womanhood, though fired with the zeal of righteous anger, had to go very
                        softly and set a watch before her lips. But as she paused, fearful to break
                        in too abruptly upon Lady Calmady’s repose, she began to question fearfully
                        whether speech was, in truth, still available as a means of communication
                        between herself and the object of her solicitude. For Lady Calmady lay so
                        very still, her sweet face showed so transparent against the rose?silk,
                        muslin?covered pillows, that the younger woman was shaken by a swift dread
                        that Dr. Knott’s melancholy predictions had already found fulfilment, and
                        that the lovely, labour?wasted body had already let the valiant, love?wasted
                        soul depart.
                    “Cousin Katherine, dear Cousin Katherine,” she called very gently, under her breath; and then waited almost
                        awestricken, sensible, to the point of distress, alike of the profound
                        quiet, which it seemed as an act of profanity to have even assayed to break,
                        and of the malign activity of those little, scriptural figures anticking so
                        wildly in the chimney?space and on the hearth.
                    Seconds, to Honoria of measureless duration, elapsed before Lady Calmady gave
                        sign of life. At length she moved her hands, as though gathering, with
                        infinite tenderness, some small and helpless creature close and warm against
                        her bosom. Honoria’s vision grew somewhat blurred and misty. Then, with a
                        long?drawn, fluttering sigh, Katherine looked up at the tall, straight
                        figure.
                    “Dick—ah, you’ve come in! My beloved—have you had good sport?” she said.
                    Honoria sat down on the end of the sofa, bowing her head.
                    “Alas, alas, it is only me, Cousin Katherine. Nothing better than me, Honoria
                        St. Quentin. Would that it were someone better,” and her voice broke.
                    But Lady Calmady had come into full possession of herself.
                    “My dear, I must have been dozing, and my thoughts had wandered far on the
                        backward road, as is the foolish habit of thoughts when one grows old and is
                        not altogether well and strong.”—Katherine spoke faintly, yet with an air of
                        sweetly playful apology. “One is liable to be confused, under such
                        circumstances, when one first wakes—and—you have the smell of the sleet and
                        the freshness of the moors upon you.” She paused, and then added:—“But,
                        indeed, the confusion of sleep once past, I could hardly have anything
                        dearer for my eyes first to light on than your very dear self.”
                    Hearing which gracious words, indignation in the cause of this woman, burning
                        compassion for the wrongs and sorrows of universal womanhood, both of which
                        must be denied utterance, worked very forcibly in Honoria. She bent down and
                        taking Lady Calmady’s hand kissed it. And, as she did this, her eyes were
                        those of an ardent, yet very reverent lover, and so, when next she spoke,
                        were the tones of her voice.
                    But Katherine, still anxious to repair any defect in her recognition and
                        greeting, and still with that same effect of playful self?depreciation,
                        spoke first.
                    “I had been reviewing many things, with the help of blessèd Thomas à Kempis
                        here, before I became so drowsy. The dear man lays his finger smartly upon
                        all the weak places in one’s fancied armour of righteousness. It is
                        sometimes not quite easy to be altogether
                        grateful to him. For instance, he has pointed out to me conclusively that I
                        grow reprehensibly selfish.”’
                    “Oh, come, come!” Honoria answered, in loving raillery. “Thomas is acute to
                        the point of lying if he has convinced you of that!”
                    “Unhappily, no,” Katherine returned. “I know it, I fear, without any pointing
                        of Thomas’s finger. But I rather shirked admission of my knowledge—well, for
                        the very bad reason that I wanted very badly to put off the day of
                        amendment. Now the holy man has touched my witness and”—she turned her head
                        against the pillows and looked full at the younger woman, while her
                        under?lip quivered a little. “My dear, I have come to be very greedy of the
                        comfort of your companionship. I have been tempted to consider not your
                        advantage, but solely my own. The pointing finger of Thomas has brought it
                        home to me that Brockhurst and I are feeding upon your generosity of time,
                        and helpfulness, to an unconscionable extent. We are devouring the best days
                        of your life, and hindering you alike from work and from pleasure. It must
                        not be. And so, my dear, I beg you go forth, once more, to all your many
                        friends and to society. You are too young, and too gifted, to remain here in
                        this sluggish back?water, alongside a derelict like me. It is not right. You
                        must make for the open stream again and let the free wind and the strong
                        current bear you gladly on your appointed course. And my gratitude and my
                        blessing will go with you always. But you must delay no longer. For me you
                        have done enough.”
                    For a little space Honoria held her friend’s hand in silence.
                    “Are—are—you tired of me then?” she said.
                    “Ah, my dear!” Katherine exclaimed. And the exclamation was more reassuring,
                        somehow, than any denial could have been.
                    “After all,” Honoria went on, “I really don’t see why you’re to have a
                        monopoly of faithfulness. There’s selfishness now, if you like—to
                        appropriate a virtue en bloc, not leaving
                        a rag, not the veriest scrappit of it for anybody else! And then, has it
                        never occurred to you, that I may be just every bit as greedy of your
                        companionship as you of mine—more so, I fancy, because—because”—
                    Honoria bowed her head and kissed the hand she held, once again.
                    “You see—I know it sounds as if I was rather a beast—perhaps I am—but I never
                        cared for anyone—really to care, I mean—till I cared for you.”
                    
                    “My dear!”—Katherine said again, wondering, shrinking somewhat, at once
                        touched and almost repulsed. The younger woman’s attitude was so far removed
                        from her own experience.
                    “Does it displease you? Does it seem to you unnatural?” Honoria asked
                        quickly.
                    “A little,” Lady Calmady answered, smiling, yet very tenderly.
                    “All the same it’s quite true. You opened a door, somehow, that had always
                        been shut. I hardly believed in its existence. Of course I had read plenty
                        about the—affections, shall we call them? And had heard women and girls, and
                        men, too, for that matter, talk about them pretty freely. But it bored me a
                        good deal. I thought it all rather silly, and rather nasty perhaps.”—Honoria
                        shook her head. “It didn’t appeal to me in the least. But when you opened
                        the door”—she paused, her face very grave, yet with a smile on it, as she
                        looked away at the little figures anticking upon the hearth. “Oh, dear me, I
                        own I was half scared,” she said, “it let in such a lot of light!”
                    But, for this speech, Lady Calmady had no immediate answer. And so the quiet
                        came back, settling down sensibly on the room again—even as, when at dawn
                        the camp is struck, the secular quiet of the desert comes back and possesses
                        its own again. And, in obedience to that quiet, Katherine’s hand rested
                        passively in the hand of her companion, while she gazed wonderingly at the
                        delicate, half?averted face, serious, lit up by the eagerness of a vital
                        enthusiasm. And, having a somewhat sorrowful fund of learning to draw upon
                        in respect of the dangers which all eccentricity, either of character or
                        development, inevitably brings along with it, she trembled, divining that
                        noble and strong and pure though it was, that face, and the temperament
                        disclosed by it, might work sorrow, both to its possessor and to others,
                        unless the enthusiasm animating it should find some issue at once large and
                        simple enough to engage its whole aspiration and power of work.
                    But abruptly Honoria broke up the brooding quiet, laughing gently, yet with a
                        catch in her throat.
                    “And when you had let in the light, Cousin Katherine, good heavens, how
                        thankful I was I had never married. Picture finding out all that after one
                        had bound oneself, after one had given oneself! What an awful
                        prostitution.”—Her tone changed and she stroked the elder woman’s hand
                        softly. “So you see you can’t very well order me off, the pointing finger of
                        Thomas notwithstanding. You have taught me”—
                    “Only half the lesson as yet,” Katherine said. “The other half, and the doxology which closes it, neither
                        I, nor any other woman, can teach you.”
                    “You really believe that?”
                    “Ah! my dear,” Katherine said, “I do more than believe. I know it.”
                    The younger woman regarded her searchingly. Then she shook her charming
                        head.
                    “It’s no good to arrive at a place before you’ve got to it,” she declared.
                        “And I very certainly haven’t got to the second half of the lesson, let
                        alone the doxology, yet. And then I’m so blissfully content with the first
                        half, that I’ve no disposition to hurry. No, dear Cousin Katherine, I am
                        afraid you must resign yourself to put up with me for a little while longer.
                        Your foes, unfortunately, are of your own household in this affair. Dr.
                        Knott has just been holding forth to us—Julius March, and Mr. Quayle, and
                        me—and swearing me over not only to stay, but to make you eat and drink and
                        come out of doors, and even to go away with me. Because—yes, in a sense your
                        Thomas is right with his pointing finger, though he got a bit muddled, good
                        man, not being quite up?to?date, and pointed to the wrong place”—
                    Honoria left her sentence unfinished. She knelt down—her tall, slender
                        figure, angular, more like that of a youth than like that of a maid, in her
                        spare, mud?stained habit and coat. Impulsively she put her hands on Lady
                        Calmady’s hips, laid her head in her lap.
                    “Have you but one blessing, oh! my more than mother?” she cried. “Do we count
                        for nothing, all the rest of us—your household, and tenants rich and poor,
                        and Julius the faithful, and Ludovic the bland, and that queer lump of
                        sagacity and ugliness, John Knott? Why will you kill yourself? Why will you
                        die and leave us all, just because one person is perverse? That’s hardly the
                        way to make us—who love you—bear with and pity him and welcome him home.—Oh!
                        I know I am treading on dangerous ground and venturing to approach very
                        close. But I don’t care—not a hang! We’re at the end of our patience. We
                        want you, and we mean to have you back.”
                    Honoria raised herself, knelt bolt upright, her hands on the arms of Lady
                        Calmady’s chair, her expression full of appeal.
                    “Be kind to us, be kind,” she said. “We only ask you, after all, to eat and
                        drink—to let Clara take care of you at night, and let me do so by day.—And
                        then, when you are stronger, you must come away with me, up north, to
                        Ormiston. You have not been there for
                        years, and its grey towers are rather splendid overlooking that strong,
                        uneasy, northern sea. It stirs the Viking blood in one, and makes that which
                        was hard seem of less moment. Roger and Mary are there, too—will be all this
                        summer. And you know it refreshed you to see them last year. And if we go
                        pretty soon the boys will be at school, so they won’t tire you with their
                        racketing. They’re jolly monkeys, though, in my opinion, Godfrey wants
                        smacking. He comes the elder?brother a lot too much over poor, little
                        Dick.—But that’s neither here nor there. Oh! it’s for you to get out of the
                        backwater into the stream, ten times more than for me. Dearest physician,
                        heal thyself!”
                    But Katherine, though deeply touched by the loving ardour of the younger
                        woman’s appeal, and the revelation of tenderness and watchful care,
                        constantly surrounding her, which that appeal brought along with it, could
                        not rouse herself to any immediate response. Sternly, unremittingly, since
                        the fair July night when Richard had left her nearly five years earlier, she
                        had schooled herself into unmurmuring resignation and calm. In the
                        prosecution of such a process there must be loss as well as gain. And
                        Katherine had, in great measure, atrophied impulse; and, in eradicating
                        personal desire, had come near destroying all spontaneity of emotion. She
                        could still give, but the power of receiving was deadened in her. And she
                        had come to be jealous of the quiet which surrounded her. It was her support
                        and solace. She asked little more than not to have it broken up. She dreaded
                        even affection, should that strive to draw her from the cloistered way of
                        life. The world, and its many interests, had ceased to be of any moment to
                        her. She asked to be left to contemplation of things eternal and to the
                        tragedy of her own heart. And so, though it was beautiful to know herself to
                        be thus cherished and held in high esteem, that beauty came to her as
                        something unrelated, as sweet words good to hear, yet spoken of some person
                        other than herself, or of a self she had ceased to be. All privilege implies
                        a corresponding obligation, and to the meeting of fresh obligations
                        Katherine felt herself not only unequal, but indisposed. And so, she smiled
                        now upon Honoria St. Quentin, leaning back against the rose?silk and
                        muslin?covered pillows, with a lovely indulgence, yet rather hopelessly
                        unmoved and remote.
                    “Ah! my dear, I am beyond all wish to be healed after the fashion you, in
                        your urgent loving?kindness, would have me,” she said. “I look forward to
                        the final healing, when my many mistakes and shortcomings shall be forgiven
                        and the smart of them removed. And I am
                        very tired. I do not think it can be required of me to go back.”
                    “I know, I know,” Honoria replied.—She rose to her feet and moved across to
                        the fireplace, her straight eyebrows drawn together, her expression one of
                        perplexity. “I must seem a brute for trying to drag you back. When Dr.
                        Knott, and the other two men, asked me to come and reason with you, I was on
                        the edge of refusing. I hardly had the heart to worry you. And yet,” she
                        added wistfully, “after all, in a way, it is just simply your own dear
                        fault. For if you will be a sort of little kingdom of heaven to us, you see,
                        it’s inevitable that, when you threaten to slip away from us, we should play
                        the part of the violent and do our best to take our kingdom by force and
                        keep it in spite of itself.”
                    “You overrate the heavenliness of the poor little kingdom,” Katherine said.
                        “Its soil has become barren, its proud cities are laid waste. It’s an
                        unprofitable place, believe me, dearest child. Let it be. Seek your fortune
                        in some kingdom from which the glory has not departed and whose motto is not
                            Ichabod.”
                    “Unfortunately, I can’t do that,” the younger woman answered. “I’ve explained
                        why already. Where my heart is, there, you see, my kingdom is also.”
                    “Ah! my dear, my dear,” Katherine said, touched, yet somewhat weary.
                    “And after all it is not wholly for our own sakes we make this fight to keep
                        you.”—Miss St. Quentin’s voice sank. She spoke slowly and as though with
                        reluctance. “We do it for the sake of the person you love best in the world.
                        I don’t say we love him very much, but that is beside the mark, We owe him a
                        certain duty—I, because I am living in his house, the others because they
                        are his friends. When he comes home—as come he surely will—they all say
                        that, even while they blame him—would it not be an almost too cruel
                        punishment if he found Brockhurst empty of your presence? You would not wish
                        that. It’s not a question of me, of course. I don’t count. But you gone, no
                        one—not even the old servants, I believe—would stay. Blame would be turned
                        into something awkwardly near to hatred.”
                    Lady Calmady’s serenity did not desert her, but a touch of her old loftiness
                        of manner was apparent. And Miss St. Quentin was very glad. Anything, even
                        anger, would be welcome if it dissipated that unnatural, paralysing
                        calm.
                    “You forget Julius, I think,” she said. “He will be faithful to the very end, faithful unto death. And so will
                        another friend of happier days, poor, blind, old Camp.”
                    A sudden inspiration came to Honoria St. Quentin.
                    “You must only count on Julius, I am afraid, Cousin Katherine—not on
                        Camp.”
                    And to her immense relief she perceived Lady Calmady’s serenity give a
                        little. It was as though she came nearer. Her sweet face was troubled, her
                        eyes full of questioning.
                    “Camp grew a little too tired of waiting about three weeks ago. You did not
                        ask for him”—
                    “Didn’t I?” Katherine said, smitten by self?reproach.
                    “Never once—and so we did not tell you, fearing to distress you.”
                    Miss St. Quentin came over and sat down on the end of the sofa again. She
                        rested her hands on her knees. Her feet were rather far apart. She fixed her
                        eyes upon the small prophets and patriarchs anticking upon the hearth.
                    “But it wasn’t really so very bad,” she said reflectively. “And we did all we
                        could to smooth his passage, poor, dear beast, to the place where all good
                        dogs go. We had the vet out from Westchurch two or three times, but there
                        was nothing much he could do. And I thought him a bit rough. Nervousness, I
                        fancy. You see the dog did not like being handled by a stranger, and made it
                        rather hot for him once or twice. I could not let him be worried, poor old
                        man, and so Julius March, and Winter, and I, took turn and turn about with
                        him.”
                    “Where did he die?”
                    “In the Gun?Room, on the tiger?skin.”—Honoria did not look round. Her voice
                        grew perceptibly husky. “Chifney and I sat up with him that last night.”
                    “You and Chifney?” Lady Calmady exclaimed, almost in protest.
                    “Yes. Of course the men would have been as kind as kind could be. Only I had
                        a feeling you would be glad to know I was there, later, when we told you.
                        You see Chifney’s as good as any vet, and I had to have somebody. The dog
                        was rather queer. I did not quite know how to manage him alone.”
                    Lady Calmady put out her hand. Honoria took it silently, and fell to stroking
                        it once more. It was a declaration of peace, she felt, on the part of the
                        obstinate well?beloved—possibly a declaration of something over and above
                        peace.
                    “Winter saw to our creature comforts,” the young lady continued. “Oh, we
                        weren’t starved, I promise you! And Chifney was excellent company.”
                    
                    She hesitated a moment.
                    “He told me endless yarns about horses—about Doncaster, and Newmarket, and
                        Goodwood. I was greatly flattered at being regarded as sufficiently of the
                        equestrian order to hear all that.—And he told me stories about Richard,
                        when he was quite a little boy—and about his father also.”
                    Honoria had a conviction the tears were running down Lady Calmady’s cheeks,
                        but she would not look round. She only stroked the hand she held softly, and
                        talked on.
                    “They were fine,” she said, “some of those stories. I am glad to have heard
                        them. They went home to me. When all is said and done, there is nothing like
                        breeding and pluck, and the courtesy which goes along with them. But after
                        midnight Camp grew very restless. He had his blanket in the big
                        arm?chair—you know the one I mean—as usual. But he wouldn’t stay there. We
                        had to lift him down. You see his hindquarters were paralysed, and he
                        couldn’t help himself much. It was pathetic. I can’t forget the asking look
                        in his half?blind eyes. But we couldn’t make out what he wanted. At last he
                        dragged himself as far as the door, and we set it open and watched him,
                        poor, dear beast. He got across the lobby to the bottom of the little
                        staircase”—
                    The speaker’s breath caught.
                    “Then we made out what it was. He wanted to get up here, to come to
                        you.—Well, I could understand that! I should want just that myself, shall
                        want it, when it comes to the last. He whimpered when Chifney carried him
                        back into the Gun?Room.”
                    Honoria turned her head and looked Lady Calmady in the face. Her own was more
                        than commonly white and very gentle in expression.
                    “He died in the grey of the morning, with his great head on my lap. I fancy
                        it eased him to have something human, and—rather pitiful—close against him.
                        Julius had just come in to see how we were getting on. I won’t declare he
                        did not say a prayer—I think he did. But I wasn’t quite as steady as I might
                        have been just then.”
                    She turned her head, looking back at the figures upon the hearth. She was
                        satisfied. Lady Calmady’s long?sustained calm had given way, and she
                        wept.
                    “We buried him, in his blanket, under the big Portugal?laurel, where the
                        nightingale sings, at the corner of the troco?ground, close to Camp the
                        First and Old Camp. The upper servants came, and Chaplin and Hariburt from
                        the house?stables, and Chifney and the head?lad—and some of the
                            gardeners. Poor, old Wenham drove up
                        in his donkey?chair from the west lodge. Julius was there, of course. We did
                        all things decently and in order.”
                    Honoria’s voice ceased. She sat stroking the dear hand she held and smiling
                        to herself, notwithstanding a chokiness in her throat, for she had a
                        comfortable belief the situation was saved.
                    Then Clara entered, prepared to encounter remonstrance, bearing a tray.
                    “It’s all right, Clara,” Miss St. Quentin said. “Lady Calmady is quite ready
                        for something to eat. I’ve been telling her about Camp.”
                    And Katherine, sitting upright, with great docility and a certain gentle
                        shame, accepted food and drink.
                    “Since you wish it, dearest,” she said, “and since Julius must not be left
                        alone in a quite empty house.”
                    “Our kingdom of heaven stays with us then?” Honoria exclaimed joyously.
                    “Such as it is—poor thing—it will do its best to stay. I thought I had cried
                        my eyes dry forever, long ago. But it seems not. You and Camp have broken up
                        the drought.”
                    “I have not hurt you?” Honoria said, in sudden penitence.
                    “No, no—you have given me relief. I was ceasing to be human. The blessed
                        Thomas was right—I grew very selfish.”
                    “But you’re not displeased with me?” Honoria insisted. Lady Calmady’s
                        playfulness had returned, but with a new complexion.
                    “Ah! it is a little soon to ask that!” she said. “Still I will go north with
                        you a fortnight hence—go to Ormiston. And by then, perhaps, you may be
                        forgiven. Open the casement, dearest, and let in the wind. The air of this
                        room is curiously dead. Give my love to Julius and Ludovic. Tell them I will
                        come into the Chapel?Room after dinner to?night.—What—my child, are you so
                        very glad?—Kiss me.—God keep you.—Now I will rest.”
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI
                    IN WHICH M. PAUL DESTOURNELLE HAS THE BAD TASTE TO THREATEN TO
                        UPSET THE APPLE?CART
                    HELEN DE VALLORBES rose from her knees and slipped out from under
                        the greasy and frayed half?curtain of the confessional box. The atmosphere
                        of that penitential spot had been such as to make her feel faint and dizzy.
                        She needed to re? cover herself. And so
                        she stood, for a minute or more, in the clear, cool brightness of the nave
                        of the great basilica, her highly?civilised figure covered by a chequer?work
                        of morning sunshine streaming down through the round?headed windows of the
                        lofty clere?storey. As the sense of physical discomfort left her she
                        instinctively arranged her veil, and adjusted her bracelets over the wrists
                        of her long gloves. Yet, notwithstanding this trivial and mundane
                        occupation, her countenance retained an expression of devout circumspection,
                        of the relief of one who has accomplished a serious and somewhat distasteful
                        duty. Her sensations were increasingly agreeable. She had rid herself of an
                        oppressive burden. She was at peace with herself and with—almost—all man and
                        womankind.
                    Yet, it must be admitted, the measure had been mainly precautionary. Helen
                        had gone to confession, on the present occasion, in much the same spirit as
                        an experienced traveller visits his dentist before starting on a protracted
                        journey. She regarded it as a disagreeable, but politic, insurance against
                        possible accident. Her distaste had been increased by the fact that there
                        really were some rather risky matters to be confessed. She had even feared a
                        course of penance might have been enforced before the granting of
                        absolution—this certainly would have been the case had she been dealing with
                        that firm disciplinarian, and very astute man of the world, the Jesuit
                        father who acted as her spiritual adviser in Paris. But here in Naples,
                        happily, it was different. The fat, sleepy, easy?going, old canon—whose
                        person exuded so strong an odour of snuff that, at the solemnest moment of
                        the confiteor, she had been unable to
                        suppress a convulsive sneeze—asked her but few inconvenient questions.
                        Pretty fine?ladies will get into little difficulties of this nature. He had
                        listened to very much the same story not infrequently before, and took the
                        position amiably, almost humorously, for granted. It was very wicked, a
                        deadly sin, but the flesh—specially such delicately bred, delicately fed,
                        feminine flesh—is admittedly weak, and the wiles of Satan are many. Is it
                        not an historic fact that our first mother did not escape?—Was Helen’s
                        repentance sincere, that was the point? And of that Helen could honestly
                        assure him there was no smallest doubt. Indeed, at this moment, she
                        abhorred, not only her sin, but her co?sinner, in the liveliest and most
                        comprehensive manner. Return to him? Sooner the dog return to its vomit! She
                        recognised the iniquity, the shame, the detestable folly, of her late
                        proceedings far too clearly. Temptation in that direction had ceased to be
                        possible.
                    Then followed the mysterious and merciful words of absolu? tion. And Helen rose from her knees and slipped
                        out from beneath the frayed and greasy curtain a free woman, the guilt of
                        her adultery wiped off by those awful words, as, with a wet cloth, one would
                        wipe writing off a slate leaving the surface of it clean in every part.
                        Precisely how far she literally believed in the efficacy of that most solemn
                        rite she would not have found it easy to declare. Scepticism warred with
                        expediency. But that appeared to her beside the mark. It was really none of
                        her business. Let her teachers look to all that. To her it was sufficient
                        that she could regard it from the practical standpoint of an insurance
                        against possible accident—the accident of sin proving actually sinful and
                        actually punishable by a narrow?minded deity; the accident of the veritable
                        existence of heaven and hell, and of Holy Church veritably having the keys
                        of both these in her keeping; the accident—more immediately probable and
                        consequently worth guarding against—that, during wakeful hours, some night,
                        the half?forgotten lessons of the convent school would come back on her,
                        and, as did sometimes happen, would prove too much for her usually
                        victorious audacity.
                    But, it should be added that another and more creditable instinct did much to
                        dictate Madame de Vallorbes’ action at this juncture. As the days went by
                        the attraction exercised over her by Richard Calmady suffered increase
                        rather than diminution. And this attraction affected her morally, producing
                        in her modesties, reticencies of speech, even of thought, and prickings of
                        unflattering self?criticism unknown to her heretofore. Her ultimate purpose
                        might not be virtuous. But undeniably, such is the complexity—not to say
                        hypocrisy—of the human heart, the prosecution of that purpose developed in
                        her a surprising sensibility of conscience. Many episodes in her career,
                        hitherto regarded as entertaining, she ceased to view with toleration, let
                        alone complacency. The remembrance of them made her nervous. What if Richard
                        came to hear of them? The effect might be disastrous. Not that he was any
                        saint; but she perceived that, with the fine inconsistency common to most
                        well?bred Englishmen, he demanded from the women of his family quite other
                        standards of conduct to those which he himself obeyed. Other women might do
                        as they pleased. Their lapses from the stricter social code were no concern
                        of his. He might, indeed, be not wholly averse to profiting by such lapses.
                        But in respect of the women of his own rank and blood the case was quite
                        otherwise. He was alarmingly capable of disgust. And, not a little to her
                        own surprise, fear of provoking, however slightly, that disgust had become a
                        reigning power with her. Never had she
                        felt as she now felt. Her own sensations at once captivated and astonished
                        her. This had ceased to be an adventure dictated by merry devilry,
                        undertaken out of lightness of heart, inspired by a mischievous desire to
                        see dust whirl and straws fly; or undertaken even out of necessity to
                        support self?satisfaction by ranging herself with cynical audacity on the
                        side of the eternal laughter. This was serious. It was desperate—the crisis,
                        as she told herself, of her life and fate. The result was singular. Never
                        had she been more vividly, more electrically, alive. Never had she been more
                        diffident and self?distrustful.
                    And this complexity of sensation served to press home on her the high
                        desirability of insurance against accident, of washing clean, as far as
                        might be possible, the surface of the slate. So it followed that now,
                        standing in the chequer?work of sunshine within the great basilica,
                        self?congratulation awoke in her. The lately concluded ceremony, some of the
                        details of which had really been most distasteful, might or might not be of
                        vital efficacy, but, in any case, she had courageously done her part.
                        Therefore, if Holy Church spoke truly, her first innocence was restored.
                        Helen hugged the idea with almost childish satisfaction. Now she could go
                        back to the Villa Vallorbes in peace, and take what measures—
                    She left the sentence unfinished. Even in thought it is often an error to
                        define. Let the future and her intentions regarding it remain in the vague!
                        She signed to Zélie Forestier—seated on the steps of a side?chapel,
                        yellow?paper?covered novel in hand—to follow her. And, after making a
                        genuflexion before the altar of Our Lady of the Immaculate Conception,
                        gathered up her turquoise?coloured skirts—the yellow?tufa quarries were not
                        superabundantly clean—and pursued her way towards the great main door. The
                        benevolent priest, charmed by her grace of movement, watched her from his
                        place in the confessional, although another penitent now kneeled within the
                        greasy curtain.—Verily the delinquencies of so delectable a piece of
                        womanhood were easily comprehensible! Neither God nor man, in such a case,
                        would be extreme to mark what was done amiss. Moreover, had she not promised
                        generous gifts alike to church and poor? The sin which in an ugly woman is
                        clearly mortal, in a pretty one becomes little more than venial. Making
                        which reflection a kindly, fat chuckle shook his big paunch, and, crossing
                        himself, he turned his attention to the voice murmuring from behind the
                        wooden lattice at his side.
                    Yet it would appear that abstract justice judged less leniently of the
                        position. For, passing out on to the portico—about the base of whose enormous columns half?naked beggars
                        clustered, exposing sores and mutilations, shrilly clamouring for alms—the
                        dazzling glare of the empty, sun?scorched piazza behind him, Helen came face
                        to face with no less a personage than M. Paul Destournelle.
                    It was as though someone had struck her. The scene reeled before her eyes.
                        Then her temper rose as in resentment of insult. To avoid all chance of such
                        a meeting she had selected this church in an unfashionable quarter of the
                        town. Here, at least, she had reckoned herself safe from molestation. And,
                        that precisely in the hour of peace, the hour of politic insurance against
                        accident, this accident of all others should befall her, was maddening! But
                        anger did not lessen her perspicacity. How to inflict the maximum of
                        discomfort upon M. Destournelle with the minimum of risk to herself was the
                        question. An interview was inevitable. She wanted, very certainly, to get
                        her claws into him; but, for safety’s sake, that should be done not in
                        attack, but in defence. Therefore he should speak first, and in his words,
                        whatever those words might be, she promised herself to discover legitimate
                        cause of offence. So, leisurely, and with studied ignorance of his presence,
                        she flung largesse of centissimi to right
                        and left, and, while the chorus of blessing and entreaty was yet loud,
                        walked calmly past M. Destournelle down the wide, shallow steps, from the
                        solid shadow of the portico to the burning sun?glare of the piazza.
                    The young maws countenance went livid.
                    “Do you dare to pretend not to recognise me?” he literally gasped.
                    “On the contrary I recognise you perfectly.”
                    “I have written to you repeatedly.”
                    “You have—written to me with a ridiculous and odious persistence.”
                    Madame de Vallorbes picked her steps. The pavement was uneven, the heat
                        great. Destournelle’s hands twitched with agitation, yet he contrived not
                        only to replace his Panama hat, but opened his white umbrella as a
                        precaution against sunstroke. And this diverted, even while exasperating,
                        Helen. Measures to ensure personal safety were so characteristic of
                        Destournelle!
                    “And with what fault, I ask you, can you reproach me, save that of a too
                        absorbing, a too generous, adoration?”
                    “That fault in itself is very sufficient.”
                    “Do you not reckon, then, in any degree, with the crime you are in process of
                        committing? Have you no sense of
                        gratitude, of obligation? Have you no regret for your own loss in leaving
                        me?”
                    Helen drew aside to let a herd of goats pass. They jostled one another
                        impudently, carrying their inquisitive heads and short tails erect, at right
                        angles to the horizontal line of their narrow backs. They bleated, as in
                        impish mischief. Their little beards wagged. Their little hoofs pattered on
                        the stone, and the musky odour of them hung in the burning air. Madame de
                        Vallorbes put her handkerchief up to her face, and over the edge of it she
                        contemplated Paul Destournelle. Every detail of his appearance was not only
                        familiar, but associated in her mind with some incident of his and her
                        common past. Now the said details asserted themselves, so it seemed to her,
                        with an impertinence of premeditated provocation.—The high, domed skull, the
                        smooth, prematurely?thin hair parted in the middle, and waved over the ears.
                        The slightly raised eyebrows, and fatigued, red?lidded, and vain, though
                        handsome eyes. The straight, thin nose, and winged, open nostrils, so
                        perpetually a?quiver. The soft, sparse, forked beard which closely followed
                        the line of the lower jaw and pointed chin. The moustache, lightly shading
                        the upper lip, while wholly exposing the fretful and rather sensuous mouth.
                        The long, effeminate, and restless hands. The tall, slight figure. The
                        clothes, of a material and pattern fondly supposed by the wearer to present
                        the last word of English fashion in relation to foreign travel, the colour
                        of them accurately matched to the pale, brown hair and beard.—So much for
                        the detail of the young man’s appearance. As a whole, that appearance was
                        elegant as only French youth ventures to be elegant. Refinement enveloped
                        Paul Destournelle—refinement, over?sensitised and under?vitalised, as that
                        of a rare exotic forced into precocious blossoming by application of some
                        artificial horticultural process. And all this—elaborately effective and
                        seductive as long as one should happen to think so, elaborately nauseous
                        when one had ceased so to think—had long been familiar to Helen to the point
                        of satiety. She turned wicked, satiety transmuting itself into active
                        vindictiveness. How gladly would she have torn this emasculated creature
                        limb from limb, and flung the lot of it among the refuse of the Neapolitan
                        gutter!
                    But, from beneath the shade of his umbrella, the young man recommenced his
                        plaint.
                    “It is inconceivable that, knowing my cruel capacity for suffering, you
                        should be indifferent to my present situation,” he asserted, half violently,
                        half fretfully. “The whole range of
                        history would fail to offer a case of parallel callousness. You, whose
                        personality has penetrated the recesses of my being! You, who are acquainted
                        with the infinite intricacy of my mental and emotional organisation! A touch
                        will endanger the harmony of that exquisite mechanism. The interpenetration
                        of the component parts of my being is too entire. I exist, I receive
                        sensations, I suffer, I rejoice, as a whole. And this lays me open to
                        universal, to incalculable, pain. Now my nerves are shattered—intellectual,
                        moral, physical anguish permeates in every part. I rally my self?reverence,
                        my nobility of soul. I make efforts. By day I visit spots of natural beauty
                        and objects of art. But these refuse to gratify me. My thought is too turgid
                        to receive the impress of them. Concentration is impossible to me. Feverish
                        agitation perverts my imagination. My ideas are fugitive. I endure a chronic
                        delirium. This by day,” he extended one hand with a despairing gesture, “but
                        by night”—
                    “Oh, I implore you,” Helen interrupted, “spare me the description of your
                        nights! The subject is a hardly modest one. And then, at various times, I
                        have already heard so very much about them, those nights!”
                    Calmly she resumed her walk. The amazing vanity of the young man’s speech
                        appeased her in a measure, since it fed her contempt. Let him sink himself
                        beyond all hope of recovery, that was best. Let him go down, down, in
                        exposition of fatuous self?conceit. When he was low enough, then she would
                        kick him! Meanwhile her eyes, ever greedy of incident and colour, registered
                        the scene immediately submitted to them. In the centre of the piazza,
                        women—saffron and poppy?coloured handkerchiefs tied round their dark
                        heads—washed, with a fine impartiality, soiled linen and vegetables in an
                        iron trough, grated for a third of its length, before a fountain of debased
                        and flamboyant design. Their voices were alternately shrill and guttural. It
                        was perhaps as well not to understand too clearly all which they said. On
                        the left came a break in the high, painted house?fronts, off which in places
                        the plaster scaled, and from the windows of which protruded miscellaneous
                        samples of wearing apparel and bedding soliciting much?needed purification
                        by means of air and light. In the said break was a low wall where coarse
                        plants rooted, and atop of which lay some half?dozen ragged youths,
                        outstretched upon their stomachs, playing cards. The least decrepit of the
                        beggars, armed with Helen’s largesse of copper coin, had joined them from
                        beneath the portico. Gambling, seasoned by shouts, imprecations, blows, grew fast and furious. In the steep
                        roadway on the right a dray, loaded with barrels, creaked and jolted upward.
                        The wheels of it were solid discs of wood. The great, mild?eyed,
                        cream?coloured oxen strained, with slowly swinging heads, under the heavy
                        yoke. Scarlet, woollen bands and tassels adorned their broad foreheads and
                        wide?sweeping, black?tipped horns, and here and there a scarlet drop their
                        flanks, where the goad had pricked them too shrewdly. And upon it all the
                        unrelenting southern sun looked down, and Helen de Vallorbes’ unrelenting
                        eyes looked forth. One of those quick realisations of the inexhaustible
                        excitement of living came to her. She looked at the elegant young man
                        walking beside her, appraised, measured him. She thought of Richard Calmady,
                        self?imprisoned in the luxurious villa, and of the possibilities of her, so
                        far platonic, relation to him. She glanced down at her own rustling skirts
                        and daintily?shod feet travelling over the hot stones; then at the noisy
                        gamblers, then at the women washing, with that consummate disregard of
                        sanitation, food and raiment together in the rusty iron trough by the
                        fountain. The violent contrasts, the violent lights and shadows, the violent
                        diversities of purpose and emotion, of rank, of health, of fortune and
                        misfortune, went to her head. Whatever the risks or dangers, that excitement
                        remained inexhaustible. Nay, those very dangers and risks ministered to its
                        perpetual upflowing. It struck her she had been over?scrupulous, weakly
                        conscientious, in making confession and seeking absolution. Such timid
                        moralities do not really shape destiny, control or determine human fate. The
                        shouting, fighting youths there, with their filthy pack of cards and few
                            centissimi, sprawling in the unstinted
                        sunshine, were nearer the essential truth. They were the profound, because
                        the practical philosophers. Therefore let us gamble, gamble, gamble, be the
                        stake small or great, as long as the merest flicker of life, or fraction of
                        uttermost farthing, is left! And so, when Destournelle took up his lament
                        again, she listened to him, for the moment, with remarkable lightness of
                        heart.
                    “I appeal to you in the name of my as yet unwritten poems, my masterpieces,
                        for which France, for which the whole brotherhood of letters, so anxiously
                        waits, to put a term to this appalling chastisement!”
                    “Delicious!” said Helen, under her breath.
                    “Your classicism is the natural complement of my mediævalism. The elasticity,
                        the concreteness, of your temperament fertilised the too?brooding
                        introspectiveness of my own. It lightened
                        the reverence which I experience in the contemplation of my own nature. It
                        induced in me the hint of frivolity which is necessary to procure action.
                        Our union was as that of high?noon and impenetrable night. I anticipated
                        extraordinary consequences.”
                    “Marriage of a butterfly and a bat? Yes, the progeny should be surprising
                        little animals certainly,” commented Madame de Vallorbes.
                    “In deserting me you have rendered me impotent. That is a crime. It is an
                        atrocity. You assassinate my genius.”
                    “Then, indeed, I have reason to congratulate myself on my ingenuity,” she
                        returned, “since I succeed in the assassination of the non?existent!”
                    “You, who have praised it a thousand times—you deny the existence of my
                        genius?” almost shrieked M. Destournelle. He was very much in earnest, and
                        in a very sorry case. His limbs twitched. He appeared on the verge of an
                        hysteric seizure. To plague him thus was a charmingly pretty sport, but one
                        safest carried on with closed doors—not in so public a spot.
                    “I do not deny the existence of anything, save your right to make a scene and
                        render me ridiculous as you repeatedly did at Pisa.”
                    “Then you must return to me.”
                    “Oh! la, la!” cried Helen.
                    “That you should leave me and live in your cousin’s house constitutes an
                        intolerable insult.”
                    “And where, pray, would you have me live?” she retorted, her temper rising,
                        to the detriment of diplomacy. “In the street?”
                    “It appears to me the two localities are synonymous—morally.”
                    Madame de Vallorbes drew up. Rage almost choked her. M. Destournelle’s words
                        stung the more fiercely because the insinuation they contained was not
                        justified by fact. They brought home to her her non?success in a certain
                        direction. They called up visions of that unknown rival, to whom—ah, how she
                        hated the woman!—Richard Calmady’s affections were, as she feared, still
                        wholly given. That her own relation to him was innocent, filled her with
                        humiliation. First she turned to Zélie Forestier, who had followed at a
                        discreet distance across the piazza.
                    “Go on,” she said, “down the street. Find a cab, a clean one. Wait in it for
                        me at the bottom of the hill.”
                    Then she turned upon M. Destournelle.
                    
                    “Your mind is so corrupt that you cannot conceive of an honest friendship,
                        even between near relations. You fill me with repulsion—I measured the depth
                        of your degeneracy at Pisa. That is why I left you. I wanted to breathe an
                        uninfected atmosphere. My cousin is a person of remarkable intellectual
                        powers, of chivalrous ideals, and of superior character. He has had great
                        troubles. He is far from well. I am watching over and nursing him.”
                    The last statement trenched boldly on fiction. As she made it Madame de
                        Vallorbes moved forward, intending to follow the retreating Zélie down the
                        steep, narrow street. For a minute M. Destournelle paused to recollect his
                        ideas. Then he went quickly after her.
                    “Stay, I implore you,” he said. “Yes, I own at Pisa I lost myself. The
                        agitation of composition was too much for me. My mind seethed with ideas. I
                        became irritable. I comprehend I was in fault. But it is so easy to
                        recommence, and to range oneself. I accept your assurances regarding your
                        cousin. It is all so simple. You shall not return to me. You shall continue
                        your admirable work. But I will return to you. I will join you at the villa.
                        My society cannot fail to be of pleasure to your cousin, if he is such a
                        person as you describe. In a milieu
                        removed from care and trivialities I will continue my poem. I may even
                        dedicate it to your cousin. I may make his name immortal. If he is a person
                        of taste and ideals, he cannot fail to appreciate so magnificent a
                        compliment. You will place this before him. You will explain to him how
                        necessary to me is your presence. He will be glad to co?operate in procuring
                        it for me. He will understand that in making these propositions I offer him
                        a unique opportunity, I behave towards him with signal generosity. And if,
                        at first, the intrusion of a stranger into his household should appear
                        inconvenient, let him but pause a little. He will find his reward in the
                        development of my genius and in the spectacle of our mutual felicity.”
                    Destournelle spoke with great rapidity. The street which they had now
                        entered, from the far end of the piazza, was narrow. It was encumbered by a
                        string of laden mules, by a stream of foot passengers. Interruption of his
                        monologue, short of raising her voice to screaming pitch, was impossible to
                        Madame de Vallorbes. But when he ceased she addressed him, and her lips were
                        drawn away from her pretty teeth viciously.
                    “Oh! you unspeakable idiot!” She said. “Have you no remnant of shame?”
                    “Do you mean to imply that Sir Richard Calmady would have the insolence, is so much the victim of
                        insular prejudice as, to object to our intimacy?”
                    Madame de Vallorbes clapped her hands together in a sort of frenzy.
                    “Idiot, idiot,” she repeated. “I wish I could kill you.”
                    Suddenly M. Paul Destournelle had all his wits about him.
                    “Ah!” he said, with a short laugh, curiously resembling in its malice the
                        bleating of the little goats, “I perceive that which constitutes the
                        obstacle to our reunion. It shall be removed.”
                    He lifted his Panama hat with studied elegance, and turning down a
                        break?neck, side alley, called, over his shoulder:—
                    “À bientôt très chère madame.”
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII
                    SPLENDIDE MENDAX
                    UNPUNCTUALITY could not be cited as among Madame de Vallorbes’
                        offences. Yet, on the morning in question, she was certainly very late for
                        the twelve o’clock breakfast. Richard Calmady—awaiting her coming beneath
                        the glistering dome of the airy pavilion, set in the angle of the terminal
                        wall of the high?lying garden—had time to become conscious of slight
                        irritation. It was not merely that he was constitutionally impatient of
                        delay, but that his nerves were tiresomely on edge just now. Trifles had
                        power to endanger his somewhat stoic equanimity. But, when at length Helen
                        emerged from the house, irritation was forgotten. Moving through the vivid
                        lights and shadows of the ilex and cypress grove, her appearance had a charm
                        of unwonted simplicity. At first sight her graceful person had the effect of
                        being clothed in a religious habit. Richard’s youthful delight in seeing a
                        woman walk beautifully remained to him. It received satisfaction now. Helen
                        advanced without haste, a certain grandeur in her demeanour, a certain
                        gloom, even as one who takes serious counsel of himself, indifferent to
                        external things, at once actor in, and spectator of, some drama playing
                        itself out in the theatre of his own soul. And this effect of dignity, of
                        self?recollection, was curiously heightened by her dress—of a very soft and
                        fine woollen material, of spotless white, the lines of it at once flowing
                        and statuesque. While as head?gear, in place of some startling construction
                        of contemporary, Parisian millinery, she wore, after the modest Italian fashion, a black lace mantilla
                        over her bright hair.
                    Arrived, she greeted Richard curtly; and, without apology for delay, accepted
                        the contents of the first dish offered to her by the waiting men?servants,
                        ate as though determinedly and putting a force upon herself, and—that which
                        was unusual with her before sundown—drank wine. And, watching her,
                        involuntarily Richard’s thought travelled back to a certain luncheon party
                        at Brockhurst, graced by the presence of genial, puzzle?headed Lord
                        Fallowfeild and members of his numerous family, when Helen had swept in,
                        even as now, had been self?absorbed, even as now. Of the drive to Newlands,
                        all in the sad November afternoon, following on that luncheon, he also
                        thought, of communications made by Helen during that drive, and of the long
                        course of event and action directly or indirectly consequent on those
                        communications. He thought of the fog, too, enveloping and almost choking
                        him, when in the early morning driven by furies, still virgin in body as in
                        heart, he had ridden out into a blank and sightless world hoping the chill
                        of it would allay the fever in his blood; and of the fog again, in the
                        afternoon, from out which the branches of the great trees, like
                        famine?stricken arms in tattered draperies, seemed to pluck evilly at the
                        carriage, as he walked the smoking horses up and down the Newlands drive,
                        waiting for Helen to rejoin him. And now, somehow, that fog seemed to come
                        up between him and the well?covered breakfast?table, between him and the
                        radiant expanse of the vivacious, capricious, half?classic, half?modern,
                        mercantile city outstretched there, teeming, breeding, fermenting, in the
                        fecundating heat of the noonday sun. The chill of the fog struck cold into
                        his vitals, giving him the strangest physical sensation. Richard
                        straightened himself in his chair, passed his hands across his eyes
                        impatiently. Brockhurst, and all the old life of it, was a subject of which
                        he forbade himself remembrance. He had divorced himself from all that, cut
                        himself adrift from it long ago. By an act of will, he tried to put it out
                        of his mind now. But the fog remained—an actual clouding of his physical
                        vision, blurring all he looked upon, It was horribly uncomfortable. He
                        wished he was alone. Then he might have slipped down from his chair and,
                        according to his poor capacity of locomotion, sought relief in movement.
                    Meanwhile, silently, mechanically, Helen de Vallorbes continued her
                        breakfast. And as she so continued, in addition to his singular physical
                        sensations of blurred vision and clinging chill, he became aware of a
                        growing embarrassment and constraint
                        between himself and his companion. So far, his and her intercourse had been
                        easy and spontaneous, because superficial. Since that first interview on the
                        terrace a tacit agreement had existed to avoid the personal note. Now, for
                        cause unknown, that intercourse threatened entering upon a new phase. It was
                        as though the concentration, the tension, which he observed in her, and of
                        which he was sensible in himself, must of necessity, eventuate in some
                        unbosoming, some act—almost involuntary—of self?revelation. This
                        unaccustomed silence and restraint seemed to Richard charged with
                        consequences, which, in his present condition of defective volition, he was
                        powerless to prevent. And this displeased him, mastery of surrounding
                        influences being very dear to him.
                    At last, coffee having been served, the men?servants withdrew to the house;
                        but the constraint was not thereby lessened. Helen sat upright, her chin
                        resting upon the back of her left hand, her eyes, under their drooping lids,
                        looking out with a veiled fierceness upon the fair and glittering prospect.
                        Richard saw her face in profile. The black mantilla draped her shoulders and
                        bust with a certain austerity of effect. It was evident that—by
                        something—she had been stirred to the extinction of her habitual vivacity
                        and desire to shine. And Richard, for all his coolness of head and rather
                        cynical maturity of outlook, had a restless suspicion of going forth—even as
                        on that foggy morning at Brockhurst—into a blank and sightless world, full
                        of hazardous possibility, where the safe way was difficult of discovery and
                        where masked dangers might lurk. Solicitous to dissipate his discomfort he
                        spoke a little at random.
                    “You must forgive me for being such an abominably bad host,” he said
                        courteously. “I am not quite the thing this morning, somehow. I had a little
                        go of fever last night. My brain is like so much pulp.”
                    Helen dropped her hand upon the table as though putting a term to an
                        importunate train of thought.
                    “I have always understood the villa to be remarkably free from malaria,” she
                        remarked abstractedly.
                    “So it is. I quite believe that. The servants certainly keep well enough. But
                        so, unfortunately, is not the port.”
                    Helen turned her head. A vertical line was observable between her arched
                        eyebrows.
                    “The port?” she repeated.
                    Richard swallowed his black coffee. Perhaps it might steady him and clear his
                        head. The numbness of his faculties and senses alike exasperated him,
                        filling him with a persuasion he would say
                        precisely those things wisdom would counsel to leave unsaid.
                    “Yes—you know I generally go down and sleep on board the yacht.”
                    There was a momentary pause. Madame de Vallorbes’ lips parted in a soundless
                        exclamation. Then she pushed back the modest folds of the mantilla, leaving
                        her neck free. The action of her hands was very graceful as she did this,
                        and she looked fixedly at Richard Calmady.
                    “I did not know that,” she said slowly. Then added, as though reasoning out
                        her own thought:—“And Naples harbour is admittedly one of the most
                        pestilential holes on the face of the earth. Are you not tempting providence
                        in the matter of disease, Richard? Are you not rather wantonly
                        indiscreet?”
                    “On the contrary,” he answered, and something of mockery touched his
                        expression, “I see it quite otherwise. I have been congratulating myself on
                        the praiseworthy abundance of my discretion.”
                    And the words were no sooner out of his mouth than Richard cursed himself for
                        a bungler, and a slightly vulgar one at that. But upon his hearer those same
                        words worked a remarkable change. Her gloom, her abstraction, departed,
                        leaving only a pretty pensiveness. She smiled with chastened sweetness upon
                        Richard Calmady—a smile nicely attuned to the semi?religious simplicity of
                        her dress.
                    “Ah! perhaps we are both a trifle out of sorts this morning!” she said. “I,
                        too, have had my little turn of sickness—sickness of heart. And that seems
                        unfair, since I rose in the best disposition of spirit. Quite early I went
                        to confession.”
                    “Confession?” Richard repeated. “I did not know your reconciliation with the
                        Church carried you to such practical lengths.”
                    “Evidently we are each fated to make small discoveries regarding the habits
                        of the other, to?day,” she rejoined. “Possibly confession is to me just what
                        those nights spent on board the yacht, lying in that malodorous harbour, are
                        to you!”
                    Helen’s smile broadened to a dainty naughtiness, infinitely provoking. But
                        pensiveness speedily supervened, She folded her hands upon the edge of the
                        table and looked down at them meditatively.
                    “I relieved my conscience. Not that there was much to relieve it of, thank
                        Heaven! We have lived austerely enough most of us, this winter in France.
                        Only it becomes a matter of moral, personal cleanliness, after a time, all
                            that—exaggerated, but very
                        comfortable. Just as one takes one’s bath twice daily, not that it is
                        necessary but that it is a luxury of physical purity and self?respect, so
                        one comes to go to confession. That is a luxury of moral purification. It is
                        as a bath to the soul, ministering to the perfection of its cleanliness and
                        health.”
                    She looked up at Richard smiling, that same dainty naughtiness very
                        present.
                    “You observe I am eminently candid. I tell you exactly how my religion
                        affects me. I can only reach high?thinking through acts which are external
                        and concrete. In short, I am a born sacramentalist.”
                    And Richard listened, interested and entertained. Yet, since that strange
                        blurring of fog still confused his vision and his judgment, vaguely
                        suspicious that he missed the main intent of her speech. Suspicious as one
                        who, listening to the clever patter of a conjurer, detects in it the effort
                        to distract attention from some difficult feat of legerdemain, until that
                        feat has past from attempt merely into accomplished fact.
                    “And, indirectly, that is where my heart?sickness comes in,” she continued,
                        with a return to something of her former abstraction and gloom. “I was
                        coming away, coming back here—and I was very happy. It is not often one can
                        say that. And then—pouf—like that,” she brought her hands
                        smartly together, “the charming bubble burst! For, upon the very church
                        steps, I met a man whom I have every cause to hate.”
                    As she spoke, the fog seemed to draw away, burnt up by the great, flaming
                        sun?god there. Richard’s brain grew clear—clearer, indeed, than in perfect
                        health—and his still face grew more still than was, even to it, quite
                        natural.
                    “Well?” he asked, almost harshly.
                    And Helen, whose faith in her own diplomacy had momentarily suffered eclipse,
                        rejoiced. For the tone of his voice betrayed, not disgust, but anxiety. It
                        stirred her as a foretaste of victory. And victory had become a maddening
                        necessity to her. Destournelle had forced her hand. His natural infirmity of
                        purpose relieved her of the fear he could work her any great mischief. Yet
                        his ingenuity, inspired by wounded vanity, might prove beyond her
                        calculations. It is not always safe to forecast the future by experience of
                        the past in relation to such a being as Destournelle! Therefore it became of
                        supreme importance, before that gentleman had time further to obtrude
                        himself, to bind Richard Calmady by some speech, some act, from which there
                        was no going back. And more than just that. The sight of her ex?lover,
                        though she now loathed him— possibly just
                        because she so loathed him—provoked passion in her. It was as though only in
                        a new intrigue could she rid herself of the remembrance of the old intrigue
                        which was now so detestable to her. She craved to do him that deepest, most
                        ultimate, despite. And passion cried out in her. The sight of him, though
                        she loathed him, had made her utterly weary of chastity. All of which
                        emotions—but held as hounds in a leash, ready to be slipped when the
                        psychological moment arrived, and by no means to be slipped until the
                        arrival of it—dictated the tenor of her next speech.
                    “Well,” she answered, with an air of half?angry sincerity altogether
                        convincing, “I really don’t know that I am particularly proud of the
                        episode. I know I was careless, that I laid myself open to the invidious
                        comment, which is usually the reward of all disinterested action. One learns
                        to accept it as a matter of course. And you see Paul Destournelle”—
                    “Oh, Destournelle!” Richard exclaimed.
                    “You have read him?”
                    “Everyone has read him.”
                    “And what do you think of him?”
                    “That his technique is as amazingly clever as his thought is amazingly
                        rotten.”
                    “I know—I know,” she said eagerly. “And that is just what induced me to do
                        all I could for him. If one could cut the canker away, give him backbone and
                        decency, while retaining that wonderful technique, one would have a second
                        and a greater Théophile Gautier.”
                    Richard was looking full at her. His face had more colour, more animation,
                        than usual.
                    “If—yes—if,” he returned. “But that same if bulks mighty big to
                        my mind.”
                    “I know,” she repeated. “Yet it seemed to me worth the attempt. And then, you
                        understand,—who better?—that if one’s own affairs are not conspicuously
                        happy, one has all the more longing the affairs of others should be crowned
                        with success. And this winter specially, among the sordid miseries,
                        disgraces, deprivations, of the siege, one was liable to take refuge in an
                        over?exalted altruism. It was difficult in so mad a world not to indulge in
                        personal eccentricity—to the neglect of due worship of the great goddess
                        Conventionality. With death in visible form at every street corner, one’s
                        sense of humour, let alone one’s higher faculties, rebelled against the
                        futility of such worship. So many detestable sights and sounds were
                        perpetually presented to one—not to mention broth of abominable things daily
                        for dinner —that one turned, with
                        thanksgiving, to beautiful form in art, to perfectly felicitous words and
                        phrases. The meaning of them mattered but little just then. They freed one
                        from the tyranny of more or less disgusting fact. They satisfied eye and
                        ear. One asked nothing more just then—luckily, you will say, since the
                        animal Destournelle has very surely nothing more to give.”
                    In speaking, Helen pushed her chair back, turning it sideways to the table.
                        Her speech was alive with varied and telling inflections. Her smallest
                        gesture had in it something descriptive and eloquent.
                    “And so I fell to encouraging the animal,” she continued, almost plaintively,
                        yet with a note of veiled laughter in her voice. “Reversing the order of
                        Circe—Naples inclines one to classic illustration, sometimes a little
                        hackneyed—by the way, speaking of Naples, look at the glory of it all just
                        now, Richard!—I tried to turn, not men to swine, but swine to men. And I
                        failed, of course. The gods know best. They never attempt metamorphosis on
                        the ascending scale! I let Destournelle come to see me frequently. The world
                        advised itself to talk. But, being rather bitterly secure of myself, I
                        disregarded that. If one is aware that one’s heart was finally and long ago
                        disposed of, one ceases to think seriously of that side of things. You must
                        know all that well enough—witness the sea?born furnishings of my bedroom
                        upstairs.”
                    For half a minute she paused. Richard made no comment.
                    “Hard words break no bones,” she added lightly. “And so, to show how much I
                        despised all such censorious cackle, I allowed Destournelle to travel south
                        with me when I left Paris.”
                    “You pushed neglect of the worship of conventionality rather far,” Richard
                        said.
                    Helen rose to her feet. Excitement gained on her, as always during one of her
                        delightful improvisations, her talented vivâ
                            voce improvements on dry?as?dust fact. She laughed softly,
                        biting her lip. More than one hound had been slipped by now. They made good
                        running. She stood by Richard Calmady, looking down at him, covering him, so
                        to speak, with her eyes. The black mantilla no longer veiled her bright
                        head. It had fallen to the ground, and lay a dark blot upon the mellow
                        fairness of the tesselated pavement. White?robed, statuesque—yet not with
                        the severe grace of marble, but with that softer, more humanly seductive
                        grace of some figure of cunningly tinted ivory—she appeared, just then, to
                        gather up in herself all the poetry, the intense and vivid light, the
                        victorious vitality, of the clear, burning, southern noon.
                    
                    “Ah, well, conventionality proved perfectly competent to avenge herself!” she
                        exclaimed. “The animal Destournelle took the average, the banal view, as
                        might have been anticipated. He had the insane presumption to suppose it was
                        himself, not his art, in which I was interested. I explained his error, and
                        departed. I recovered my equanimity. That took time. I felt soiled,
                        degraded. And then to?day I meet him again, unashamed, actually claiming
                        recognition. I repeated my explanation with uncompromising lucidity”—
                    Richard moved restlessly in his chair, looking up almost sharply at her.
                    “Waste of breath,” he said. “No explanation is lucid if the hearer is
                        unwilling to accept it.”
                    And then the two cousins, as though they had reached unexpectedly some
                        parting of the ways, calling for instant decision in respect of the future
                        direction of their journey, gazed upon one another strangely—each half
                        defiant of the other, each diligent to hide his own and read the other’s
                        thought, each sensible of a crisis, each at once hurried and arrested by
                        suspicion of impending catastrophe, unless this way be chosen that
                        declined—though it seemed, in good truth, not in their keeping, but in that
                        of blind chance only that both selection and rejection actually resided.
                        And, in this strait, neither habit of society, fine sword?play of diplomacy
                        and tact, availed to help them. For suddenly they had outpaced all that, and
                        brought up amongst ancient and secular springs of action and emotion before
                        which civilisation is powerless and the ready tongue of fashion dumb.
                    But even while he so gazed, in fateful suspense and indecision, the fog came
                        up again, chilling Richard Calmady’s blood, oppressing his brain as with an
                        uprising of foul miasma, blurring his vision, so that Helen’s fair,
                        downward?gazing face was distorted, rendered illusive and vague. And, along
                        with this, distressing restlessness took him, compelling him to seek relief
                        in change of posture and of place. He could not stop to reckon with how that
                        which he proposed to do might strike an onlooker. His immediate sensations
                        filled his whole horizon. Silently he slipped down from his chair, stood a
                        moment, supporting himself with one hand on the edge of the table, and then
                        moved forward to that side of the pavilion which gave upon the garden. Here
                        the sunshine was hot upon the pavement, and upon the outer half of each
                        pale, slender column. Richard leant his shoulder against one of these,
                        grateful for the genial heat.
                    Since her first and somewhat inauspicious meeting with him in childhood,
                        Helen had never, close at hand, seen Richard Calmady walk thus far. She stared, fascinated by that cruel spectacle.
                        For the instant transformation of the apparently tall, and conspicuously
                        well?favoured, courtly gentleman, just now sitting at table with her, into
                        this shuffling, long?armed, crippled dwarf was, at first utterly incredible,
                        then portentous, then, by virtue of its very monstrosity, absorbing and, to
                        her, adorable, whetting appetite as veritable famine might. Chastity became
                        to her more than ever absurd, a culpable waste of her own loveliness, of
                        sensation, of emotion, a sin against those vernal influences working in this
                        generous nature surrounding her and working in her own blood. All the
                        primitive instinct of her womanhood called aloud in her that she must
                        wed—must wed. And the strident voice of the great, painted city coming up to
                        her, urgent, incessant, carried the same message; as did the radiant sea,
                        whose white lips kissed the indented coast?line as though pale and hungry
                        with love. While the man before her, by his very abnormality and a certain
                        secretness inevitable in that, heightened her passion. He was to her of all
                        living men most desirable, so that she must win him and hold him, must see
                        and know.
                    In a few steps, light as those of the little, rose?crowned dancer of long
                        ago, she followed him across the shining floor. There was a point of north
                        in the wind, adding exhilaration to the firm sunshine as ice to rare wine.
                        The scent of narcissus, magnolia, and lemon blossom was everywhere. The
                        cypresses yielded an aromatic, myrrh?like sweetness. The uprising waters of
                        the fountain, set in the central alley, swerved southward, falling in a
                        jewelled rain. Helen, in her spotless raiment, came close and Richard
                        Calmady turned to her. But his eyes no longer questioned hers. They were as
                        windows opening on to empty space, seeing all, yet telling nothing. His face
                        had become still again and inscrutable, lightened only by that flickering,
                        mocking smile. It seemed as though the psychological moment were passed; and
                        social sense, ordinary fashions of civilised intercourse, had not only come
                        back but come to stay.
                    “I think we will omit Destournelle from our talk in future,” he said. “As a
                        subject of conversation I find he disagrees with me, notwithstanding his
                        felicity of style and his admirable technique. I will give orders which, I
                        hope, may help to protect you from annoyance in future. In this delightful
                        land, by wise exercise of just a little bribery and corruption, it is still
                        possible to make the unwelcome alien prefer to seek health and entertainment
                        elsewhere. Now, will you like to go back to the house?”
                    
                    The approach to the pavilion from the lower level of the garden was by a
                        carefully graded slope of Roman brick, set edgewise. At regular intervals of
                        about eighteen inches this was crossed—on the principle of a gang?plank—by
                        raised, marble treads. Without waiting for his cousin’s reply, Richard
                        started slowly down the slope. At the best of times this descent for him
                        demanded caution. Now his vision was again so queerly blurred that he
                        miscalculated the distance between the two lowest treads, slipped and
                        stumbled, lunging forward. Quick as a cat, Madame de Vallorbes was behind
                        him, her right hand grasping his right elbow, her left hand under his left
                        armpit.
                    “Ah! Dickie, Dickie, don’t fall!” she cried, a sudden terror in her
                        voice.
                    Her muscles hardened like steel. It needed all her strength to support him,
                        for he was heavy, his body inert as that of one fainting. For a moment his
                        head rested against her bosom; and her breath came short, sighing against
                        his neck and cheek.
                    By sheer force of will Richard recovered his footing, disengaging himself
                        from her support, shuffling aside from her.
                    “A thousand thanks, Helen,” he said.
                    Then he looked full at her, and she—untender though she was—perceived that
                        the perspective of space on which, as windows might, his eyes seemed to
                        open, was not empty. It was peopled, crowded—even as those steep teeming
                        byways of Naples—by undying, unforgetable misery, by humiliation, by
                        revolt.
                    “Yes, it is rather unpardonable to be—as I am—isn’t it?” he said. Adding
                        hastily, yet with a certain courteous dignity:—“I am ashamed to trouble you,
                        to ask you—of all people—to run messages for me—but would you go on to the
                        house”—
                    “Dickie, why may not I help you?” she interrupted.
                    “Ah!” he said, “the answer to that lies away back in the beginning of things.
                        Even unlucky devils, such as myself, are not without a certain respect for
                        that which is fitting, for seemliness and etiquette. Send one of my men
                        please. I shall be very grateful to you—thanks.”
                    And Helen de Vallorbes, her passion baulked and therefore more than ever at
                        white heat, swept up the paved alley, amid the sweet scents of the garden,
                        beneath the jewelled rain of the fountain, that point of north in the wind
                        dallying with her as in laughing challenge, making her the more mad to have
                        her way with Richard Calmady, yet knowing that of the two—he and she—he was
                        the stronger as yet.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VIII
                    IN WHICH HELEN DE VALLORBES LEARNS HER RIVAL’S NAME
                    “I HEAR Morabita sings, in Ernani, at the San Carlo on
                        Friday night. Do you care to go, Helen?”
                    The question, though asked casually, had, to the listener, the effect of
                        falling with a splash, as of a stone into a well, awakening unexpected
                        echoes, disturbing, rather harshly, the constrained silence which had
                        reigned during the earlier part of dinner.
                    All the long, hot afternoon, Madame de Vallorbes had been alone—Richard
                        invisible, shut persistently away in those rooms of the entresol into which,
                        as yet, she had never succeeded in penetrating. Richard had not proposed to
                        her to do so. And it was part of that praiseworthy discretion which she had
                        agreed with herself to practise—in her character of scrupulously unexacting
                        guest—only to accept invitations, never to issue them. How her cousin might
                        occupy himself, whom even he might receive, during the time spent in those
                        rooms, she did not know. And it was idle to inquire. Neither of her
                        servants, though skilful enough, as a rule, in the acquisition of
                        information, could, in this case, acquire any. And so it came about that
                        during those many still bright hours, following on her rather agitated
                        parting with Richard at midday, while she paced the noble rooms of the first
                        floor—once more taking note of their costly furnishings and fine pictures,
                        meeting her own restless image again and again in their many mirrors—and
                        later, near sundown, when she walked the dry, brown pathways of the ilex and
                        cypress grove, the wildest suspicions of his possible doings assailed her.
                        For she was constrained to admit that, though she had spent a full week now
                        under his roof, it was but the veriest fringe, after all, of the young man’s
                        habits and thought with which she was actually acquainted. And this not only
                        desperately intrigued her curiosity, but the apartness, behind which he
                        entrenched himself and his doings, was as a slight put upon her and
                        consequent source of sharp mortification. So to?day she ranged all permitted
                        spaces of the villa and its grounds softly, yet lithe, watchful, fierce as a
                        she?panther—her ears strained to hear, her eyes to see, driven the while by
                        jealousy of that nameless rival, to remembrance of whom all the whole place
                        was dedicated, and by baffled passion, as with whips.
                    
                    Nor did superstition fail to add its word of ill?omen at this juncture. A
                        carrion crow, long?legged, heavy of beak, alighting on the clustered curls
                        of the marble bust of Homer, startled her with vociferous croakings. A long,
                        narrow, many?jointed, blue?black, evil?looking beetle crawled from among the
                        rusty, fibrous, cypress roots across her path. A funeral procession, priest
                        and acolytes, with lighted tapers, sitting within the glass?sided hearse at
                        head and foot of the flower?strewn coffin, wound slowly along the dusty,
                        white road—bordered by queer growth of prickly?pear and ragged, stunted
                        palm?trees—far below. She crossed herself, turning hurriedly away. Yet, for
                        an instant, Death, triumphant, hideous, inevitable, and all the spiritual
                        terror and physical disgust of it, grinned at her, its fleshless face, as it
                        seemed, close against her own. And alongside Death—by some malign
                        association of ideas and ugly antic of profanity—she saw the bel tête de Jésu of M. Paul Destournelle as she
                        had seen it this morning, he looking back, hat in hand, while he plunged
                        down the break?neck, Neapolitan side?street, with that impish, bleating,
                        goatlike laugh.
                    By the time the dinner?hour drew near she found her outlook in radical need
                        of reconstruction, and to that end bade Zélie dress her in the crocus?yellow
                        brocade, reserved for some emergency such as the present. It was a gown,
                        surely, to restore self?confidence and induce self?respect! Fashioned
                        fancifully, according to a picturesque, seventeenth?century, Venetian model,
                        the full sleeves and the long?waisted bodice of it—this cut low, generously
                        displaying her shoulders and swell of her bosom—were draped with superb
                            guipure de Flandres à brides frisées
                        and strings of seed pearls. All trace of ascetic simplicity had very
                        certainly departed. Helen was resplendent—strings of seed pearls twisted in
                        her honey?coloured hair, a clear red in her cheeks and hard brilliance in
                        her eyes, bred of eager, jealous excitement. She had, indeed, reached a
                        stage of feeling in which the sight of Richard Calmady, the fact of his
                        presence, worked upon her to the extent of dangerous emotion. And now this
                        statement of his, and the question following it, caused the flame of the
                        inward fires tormenting her to leap high.
                    “Ah! Morabita!” she exclaimed. “What an age it is since I have heard her
                        sing, or thought about her! How is her voice lasting, Richard?”
                    “I really don’t know,” he answered,“ and that is why I am rather curious to
                        hear her. There was literally nothing but a voice in her case—no dramatic
                        sense, nothing in the way of intelligence
                        to fall back on. On that account it interested me to watch her. She and her
                        voice had no essential relation to one another. Her talent was stuck into
                        her, as you might stick a pin into a cushion. She produced glorious effects
                        without a notion how she produced them, and gave expression—and perfectly
                        just expression—to emotions she had never dreamed of. At the best of times
                        singers are a feeble folk intellectually, but, of all singers I have known,
                        she was mentally the very feeblest.”
                    “No, perhaps she was not very wise,” Helen put in, but quite mildly, quite
                        kindly.
                    “And so if the voice went, everything went. And that made one reflect
                        agreeably upon the remarkably haphazard methods employed by that which we
                        politely call Almighty God in His construction of our unhappy selves.
                        Design?—There’s not a trace of design in the whole show. Bodies, souls,
                        gifts, superfluities, deficiencies, just pitched together anyhow. The most
                        bungling of human artists would blush to turn out such work.”
                    Richard spoke rapidly. He had refused course after course. And now the food
                        on his plate remained untasted. Seen in the soft light of the shaded candles
                        his face had a strange look of distraction upon it, as though he too was
                        restless with an intimate, deep?seated restlessness. His skin was less
                        colourless than usual, his manner less colourless also. And this conferred a
                        certain youthfulness on him, making him seem nearer—so Helen thought—to the
                        boy she had known at Brockhurst, than to the man, whom lately she had been
                        so signally conscious that she failed to know.
                    “No, I hope Morabita’s voice remains to her,” he continued. “Her absolute
                        nullity minus it is disagreeable to think of. And much as I relish
                        collecting telling examples of the fatuity of the Creator—she, voiceless,
                        would offer a supreme one—I would spare her that, poor dear. For she was
                        really rather charming to me at one time.”
                    “So it was commonly reported,” Helen remarked.
                    “Was it?” Richard said absently.
                    Though as a rule conspicuously abstemious, he had drunk rather freely
                        to?night, and that with an odd haste of thirst. Now he touched his champagne
                        tumbler, intimating to Bates, the house?steward—sometime the Brockhurst
                        under butler—that it should be refilled.
                    “I can’t have seen Morabita for nearly three years,” he went on. “And my last
                        recollections of her are unfortunate. She
                        had sent me a box, in Vienna it was I think, for the Traviata.
                        She was fat then, or rather, fatter. Stage furniture leaves something to
                        desire in the way of solidity. In the death scene the middle of the bed
                        collapsed. Her swan?song ceased abruptly. Her head and heels were in the
                        air, and the very large rest of her upon the floor, bed and bedclothes
                        standing out in a frill all round. It was a sight discouraging to sentiment.
                        I judged it kinder not to go to supper with her after the performance that
                        night.”
                    Richard paused, again drained his glass.
                    “I beg your pardon,” he said, “what atrocious nonsense I am talking!”
                    “I think I rather enjoy it,” Madame de Vallorbes answered. She looked
                        sideways at the young man, from under her delicate eyelids. He was perfectly
                        sober—of that there was no question. Yet he was less inaccessible, somehow,
                        than usual. She inclined to experiment.—“Only I am sorry for Morabita in
                        more ways than one, poor wretch. But then perhaps I am just a little sorry
                        for all those women whom you reject, Richard.”
                    “The women whom I reject?” he said harshly.
                    “Yes, whom you reject,” Helen repeated.—Then she busied herself with a small
                        black fig, splitting it deftly open, disclosing the purple, and rose, and
                        clear living greens of the flesh and innumerable seeds of it, colours rich
                        as those of a tropic sky at sunset.—“And there are so many of those women it
                        seems to me! I am coming to have a quite pathetic fellowship for them.” She
                        buried her white teeth in the softness of the fig.—“Not without reason,
                        perhaps. It is idle to deny that you are a past?master in the ungentle art
                        of rejection. What have you to say in self?defence, Dickie?”
                    “That talking nonsense appears to be highly infectious—and that it is a
                        disagreeably oppressive evening.”
                    Helen de Vallorbes smiled upon him, glanced quickly over her shoulder to
                        assure herself the servants were no longer present—then spoke, leaning
                        across the corner of the table towards him, while her eyes searched his with
                        a certain daring provocation.
                    “Yes, I admit I have finished my fig. Dinner is over. And it is my place to
                        disappear according to custom.”—She laid her rosy finger?tips together, her
                        elbows resting on the table. “But I am disinclined to disappear. I have a
                        number of things to say. Take that question of going to the opera, for
                        instance. Half Naples will be there, and I know more than half Naples, and
                        more than half Naples knows me. I do not crave to run incontinently into the
                        arms of any of de Vallorbes’ many relations. They were not conspicuously kind to me when I was here as a girl and
                        stood very much in need of kindness. So the question of going to the San
                        Carlo, you see, requires reflection. And then,”—her tone softened to a most
                        persuasive gentleness,—“then, the evenings are a trifle long when one is
                        alone and has nothing very satisfactory to think about. And I have been
                        worried to?day, detestably worried.”—She looked down at her finger?tips. Her
                        expression became almost sombre. “In any case I shall not plague you very
                        much longer, Richard,” she said rather grandly. “I have determined to remove
                        myself bag and baggage. It is best, more dignified to do so. Reluctantly I
                        own that. Here have I no abiding city. I wish I had, perhaps, but I haven’t.
                        Therefore it is useless, and worse than useless, to play at having one. One
                        must just face the truth.”
                    She looked full at the young man, smiling at him, as though somehow forgiving
                        him a slight, an unkindness, a neglect.
                    “And so, just because to you it all matters so uncommonly little, let us talk
                        rather later this evening.”
                    She rose.
                    “I’ll go on into the long drawing?room,” she said. “The windows were still
                        open there when I came in to dinner. The room will be pleasantly cool. You
                        will come?”
                    And she moved away quietly, thoughtfully, opened the high’ double?doors, left
                        them open, and that without once looking back. Yet her hearing was strained
                        to catch the smallest sound above that which accompanied her, namely the
                        rustling of her dress. Then a queer shiver ran all down her spine and she
                        set her teeth, for she perceived that halting, shuffling footsteps had begun
                        to follow those light and graceful footsteps of her own.
                    “Ce n’est que le premier pas qui coute,”
                        she said to herself. “I have no fear for the rest.”
                    Yet, crossing the near half of the great room, she sank down on a sofa,
                        thankful there was no farther to go. In the last few minutes she had put
                        forth more will?power, felt more deeply, than she had supposed. Her knees
                        gave under her. It was a relief to sit down.
                    The many candles, in the cut?glass chandeliers hanging from along the centre
                        of the painted ceiling, were lighted, filling the length and breadth of the
                        room with a bland, diffused radiance. It touched picture and statue, tall
                        mirror, rich curtain, polished woodwork of chair and table, gleaming ebony
                        and ivory cabinet. It touched Helen de Vallorbes’ bright head and the
                        strings of pearls twisted in her hair, her white neck, the swell of her
                        bosom, and all that delicate wonder of needlework—the Flanders lace— trimming her bodice. It lay on her lap,
                        too, as she leaned back in the corner of the sofa, her hands pressed down on
                        either side her thighs—lay there bringing the pattern of her brocaded dress
                        into high relief. This was a design of pomegranates—leaves, flowers, and
                        fruit—and of trailing, peacock feathers, a couple of shades lighter than the
                        crocus?yellow ground. The light took the over?threads and stayed in
                        them.
                    The window stood wide open on to the balcony, the elaborately
                        wrought?ironwork of which—scroll and vase, plunging dolphin and rampant
                        sea?horse—detached itself from the opaque background of the night. And in at
                        the window came luscious scents from the garden below, a chime of falling
                        water, the music, faint and distant, in rising and falling cadence of a
                        marching military band. In at it also, and rising superior to all these in
                        imperativeness and purpose, came the voice of Naples itself—no longer that
                        of a city of toil and commerce, but that of a city of pleasure, a city of
                        licence, until such time as the dawn should once again break, and the sun
                        arise, driving back man and beast alike to labour, the one from merry
                        sinning, the other from hard?earned sleep. And once again, but in clearer,
                        more urgent, accents, the voice of the city repeated its message to Helen de
                        Vallorbes, calling aloud to her to do even as it was doing, namely to wed—to
                        wed. And, hearing it, understanding that message, for a little space shame
                        took her, in face both of its and her own shamelessness; so that she closed
                        her eyes, unable for the moment to look at Richard Calmady as he crossed the
                        great room in that bland and yet generous light. But, almost immediately,
                        his voice, cold and measured in tone, there close beside her, claimed her
                        attention.
                    “That which you said at dinner rather distresses me, Helen.”
                    Then shame, or no shame, Madame de Vallorbes, of necessity, opened her eyes.
                        And, so doing, it needed all her self?control to repress a cry. She forced
                        her open hands down very hard on the mattress of the sofa. For Richard
                        leaned his back against the jamb of the open window, and she saw his face
                        and all his poor figure in profile. His left hand hung straight at his side,
                        the tips of his fingers only just not touching the floor. And again, as at
                        midday, the spectacle of his deformity worked upon her strangely.
                    “What of all that which I said at dinner distresses you?” she asked gently,
                        with sudden solicitude.
                    “You showed me that I have been a wretchedly negligent host.”—In speaking,
                        the young man turned his head and looked at her, paused a moment, almost
                        startled by her resplendent aspect. Then
                        he looked down at his own stunted and defective limbs. His expression became
                        very grim. He raised his shoulders just perceptibly. “I reproach myself with
                        having allowed you to be so much alone. It must have been awfully dull for
                        you.”
                    “It was a little dull,” Helen said, still gently.
                    “I ought to have begged you to ask some of the people you know in Naples to
                        come here. It was stupid of me not to think of it. I need not have seen
                        them, neither need they have seen me.”
                    He looked at her steadily again, as though trying to fix her image in his
                        memory.
                    “Yes, it was stupid of me,” he repeated absently. “But I have got into
                        churlish, bachelor habits—that can hardly be helped, living alone, or on
                        board ship, as I do—and I have pretty well forgotten how to provide
                        adequately for the entertainment of a guest.”
                    “Oh! I have had that which I wanted, that which I came for,” Helen answered,
                        very charmingly,—“had it in part, at all events. Though I could have put up
                        with just a little more of it, Dickie, perhaps.”
                    “I warned you, if you remember, that opportunities of amusement—as that word
                        is generally understood—would be limited.”
                    “Amusement?” she exclaimed, with an almost tragic inflection of contempt.
                    “Oh yes!” he said, “amusement is not to be despised. I’d give all I am worth,
                        half my time, to be amused—but that again, like hospitality, is rather a
                        lost art with me. You remember, I warned you life at the villa in these days
                        was not precisely hilarious.”
                    Helen clapped her hands together.
                    “Ah! you are wilfully obtuse, you are wilfully, cruelly pig?headed!” she
                        cried. “Pardon me, dear Richard, but your attitude is enough to exasperate a
                        saint. And I am no saint as yet. I am still human—radically, for my own
                        peace of mind lamentably, human. I am only too capable of being grieved,
                        humiliated, hurt. But there, it is folly to say such things to you! You are
                        hopelessly insensible to all that. So I take refuge in quoting your own
                        words of this morning against you—that no explanation is lucid if the hearer
                        refuses to accept it.”
                    “I am dull, no doubt, but honestly I fail to see how that remark of mine can
                        be held to apply in the present case.”
                    “It applies quite desolatingly well!” Helen declared, with spirit. Then her
                        manner softened into a seductiveness of for? giveness once again.—“And so, dear Richard, I am glad that I had already
                        determined to leave here to?morrow. It would have been a little too wretched
                        to arrive at that determination after this conversation. You must go alone
                        to hear your old flame, Morabita, sing. Only, if her voice is still as
                        sympathetic as of old, if it moves you from your present insensibility, you
                        may read remembrance of some aspects of my visit into the witchery of it if
                        you like. It may occur to you what those aspects really meant.”
                    Helen smiled upon him, leaning a little forward. Her eyes shone, as though
                        looking out through unshed tears.
                    “It’s not exactly flattering to one’s vanity to be compelled to depute to
                        another woman the making of such things clear. But it is too evident I waste
                        my time in attempting to make them clear myself. No explanation is lucid,
                            et cætera”—
                    Helen shook back her head with an extraordinary charm of half?defiant,
                        half?tearful laughter. She was playing a game, her whole intelligence bent
                        on the playing of it skilfully. Yet she was genuinely touched. She was
                        swayed by her very real emotion. She spoke from her heart, though every
                        word, every passing action, subserved her ultimate purpose in regard to
                        Richard Calmady.
                    “And, after all, one must retain some remnant of self?respect with which to
                        cover the nakedness of one’s—Oh yes! decidedly, Morabita’s voice had best do
                        the rest!”
                    Richard had moved from his station in the window. He stood at the far end of
                        the sofa, resting his hands on the gilded and carven arm of it. Now the
                        ungainliness of his deformity was hidden, and his height was greater than
                        that of his companion, obliging her to look up at him.
                    “I give you my word, Helen,” he said, “I have no notion what you are driving
                        at.”
                    “Driving at, driving at?” she cried. “Why, the self?evident truth that you
                        are forcing me rather brutally to pay the full price of my weakness in
                        coming here, in permitting myself the indulgence of seeing you again. You
                        told me directly I arrived, with rather cynical frankness, that I had not
                        changed. That is quite true. What I was at Brockhurst, four years ago, what
                        I then felt, that I am and that I feel still. Oh! you have nothing to
                        reproach yourself with in defect of plain speaking, or excess of amiable
                        subterfuge! You hit out very straight from the shoulder! Directly I arrived
                        you also told me how you had devoted this place—with which, after all, I am
                        not wholly unconnected—to the cult, to the ideal worship, of a woman whom
                        you loved.”
                    
                    “So I have devoted it,” Richard said.
                    “And yet I was weak enough to remain!”
                    The young man’s face relaxed, but its expression remained enigmatic.
                    “And why not?” he asked.
                    “Because, in remaining, I have laid myself open to misconstruction, to all
                        manner of pains and penalties, not easy to be endured, to the odious
                        certainty of appearing contemptible in your estimation as well as in my
                        own.”
                    Helen parted her pretty foot upon the floor in a small frenzy of
                        irritation.
                    “How can I hope to escape, since even the precious being whom you affect to
                        worship you keep sternly at arm’s length—that is among the other pleasing
                        things you confided to me immediately on my arrival—lest, seen at close
                        quarters, she should fall below your requirements and so you should suffer
                        disillusion? Ah! you are frightfully cold?blooded, repulsively inhuman!
                        Whether you judge others by yourself, reckoning them equally devoid of
                        natural feeling, or whether you find a vindictive relish in rejecting the
                        friendship and affection so lavishly offered you”—
                    “Is it offered lavishly? That comes as news to me,” he put in.
                    “Ah! but it is. And I leave you to picture the pleasing entertainment
                        afforded the offerer in seeing you ignore the offering, or, worse still,
                        take it, examine it, and throw it aside like a dirty rag! In one case you
                        underline your rejection almost to the point of insult.”
                    “This is very instructive. I am learning a whole lot about myself,” Richard
                        said coolly.
                    “But look,” Madame de Vallorbes cried, “do you not prefer exposing yourself
                        to the probability of serious illness rather than remain under the same roof
                        with me? The inference hits one in the face. To you the pestilential
                        exhalations, the unspeakable abominations, of Naples harbour appear less
                        dangerous than my near neighbourhood.”
                    “You put it more strongly than I should,” he answered, smiling. “Yet, from a
                        certain standpoint, that may very well be true.”
                    For an instant Helen hesitated. Her intelligence, for all its alertness, was
                        strained exactly to appraise the value of his words, neither over, nor
                        under, rating it. And her eyes searched his with a certain boldness and
                        imperiousness of gaze. Richard, meanwhile, folding his arms upon the carven
                        and gilt frame of the sofa, looked back at
                        her, smiling still, at once ironically and very sadly. Then swift assurance
                        came to her of the brazen card she had best play. But, playing it, she was
                        constrained to avert her eyes and set her glance pensively upon the
                        light?visited surface of her crocus?yellow, silken lap.
                    “I will do my possible to accept your nightly journeys as a compliment in
                        disguise, then,” she said, quite softly. “For truly, when I come to think of
                        it, were she, herself, here—she, the woman you so religiously admire that
                        you take an infinitude of pains to avoid having anything on earth to do with
                        her—were she herself here, you could hardly take more extensive measures to
                        secure yourself against risk of disappointment, hardly exercise a greater
                        range of caution!”
                    “Perhaps that’s just it. Perhaps you have arrived at it all at last. Perhaps
                        she is here,” he said.
                    And he turned away, steadying himself with one hand against the jamb of the
                        window, and shuffled out slowly, laboriously, on to the balcony into the
                        night.
                    For a quite perceptible length of time Helen de Vallorbes continued to
                        contemplate the light?visited surface of her crocus?yellow, silken lap. She
                        followed the lines of the rich pattern—pomegranate, fruit and blossom,
                        trailing peacock’s feather. For by such mechanical employment alone could
                        she keep the immensity of her excitement and of her triumph in check. To
                        shout aloud, to dance, to run wildly to and fro, would have been only too
                        possible to her just then, All that for which she had schemed, had ruled
                        herself discreetly, had ridden a waiting race, had been hers, in fact, from
                        the first—the prize adjudged before ever she left the starting?post. She
                        held this man in the hollow of her hand; and that by no result of cunning
                        artifice, but by right divine of beauty and wit and the manifold seductions
                        of her richly?endowed personality. And, thinking of that, she clenched her
                        dainty fists, opened them again, and again clenched them, upon the yielding
                        mattress of the sofa, given over to an ecstasy of physical enjoyment,
                        weaving, even as, with clawed and padded paws, her prototype the she?panther
                        might. Slowly she raised her downcast eyes and looked after Richard Calmady,
                        his figure a blackness, as of vacancy, against the elaborate
                        wrought?ironwork of the balcony. And so doing, an adorable sensation moved
                        her, at once of hungry tenderness and of fear—fear of something unknown, in
                        a way fundamental, incalculable, the like of which she had never experienced
                        before. Ah! indeed, of all her many loves, here was the crown and climax!
                        Yet, in the midst of her very vital rapture, she could still find time
                            for remembrance of the little,
                        crescent?shaped scar upon her temple, and for remembrance of Katherine
                        Calmady, who had, unwittingly, fixed that blemish upon her and had also more
                        than once frustrated her designs. This time frustration was not possible.
                        She was about to revenge the infliction of that little scar! And, all the
                        while, the intellectual part of her was agreeably intrigued, trying to
                        disentangle the why and wherefore of Richard’s late action and utterances.
                        And self?love was gratified to the highest height of its ambition by the
                        knowledge that not only in his heart had she long reigned, but that he had
                        dedicated time and wealth and refined ingenuity to the idea of her, to her
                        worship, to the making of this, her former dwelling?place, into a temple for
                        her honour, a splendid witness to her victorious charm, a shrine not
                        unfitting to contain the idol of his imagination.
                    For a little space she rested in all this, savouring the sweetness of it as
                        some odour of costly sacrifice. For, whatever her sins and lapses, Helen de
                        Vallorbes had the fine æsthetic appreciations, as well as the inevitable
                        animality, of the great courtesan. The artist was at least as present in her
                        as the whore. And it was not, therefore, until realisation of her present
                        felicity was complete, until it had soaked into her, so to speak, to the
                        extent of a delicious familiarity, that she was disposed to seek change of
                        posture or of place. Then, at last, softly, languidly, for indeed she was
                        somewhat spent by the manifold emotions of the day, she rose and followed
                        Richard into the starless, low?lying night. Her first words were very
                        simple, yet to herself charged with far?reaching meaning—as a little key may
                        give access to a treasure?chest containing riches of fabulous worth.
                    “Richard, is it really true, that which you have told me?”
                    “What conceivable object could I have in lying?”
                    “Then why have you delayed?—why wasted the precious days—the precious months
                        and years, if it comes to that?”
                    “How in honour and decency could I do otherwise—circumstances being such as
                        they are, I being that which I am?”
                    The two voices were in notable contrast. Both were low, both were penetrated
                        by feeling. But the man’s was hoarse and rasping, the woman’s smooth and
                        soft as milk.
                    “Ah! it is the old story!” she said. “Will you never comprehend, Dickie, that
                        what is to you hateful in yourself, may to someone else be the last word of
                        attraction, of seduction, even?”
                    “God forbid I should ever comprehend that!” he answered. “When I take to
                        glorying in my shame, pluming myself upon
                        my abnormality, then, indeed, I become beyond all example loathsome. The
                        most deplorable moment of my very inglorious career will be precisely that
                        in which I cease to look at myself with dispassionate contempt.”
                    Helen knelt down, resting her beautiful arms upon the dark handrail of the
                        balcony, letting her wrists droop over it into the outer dimness. The bland
                        light from the open window dwelt on her kneeling figure and bowed head. But
                        it was as well, perhaps, that the night dropped a veil upon her face.
                    “And yet so it is,” she said. “You may repudiate the idea, but the fact
                        remains. I do not say it would affect all women alike—affect those, for
                        instance, whose conception of love, and of the relation between man and
                        woman, is dependent upon the slightly improper and very tedious marriage
                        service as authorised by the English Church. Let the conventional be
                        conventional still! So much the better if you don’t appeal to them—meagre,
                        timid, inadequate, respectable—a generation of fashion?plates with a
                        sixpenny book of etiquette, moral and social, stuck inside them to serve for
                        a soul.”
                    Helen’s voice broke in a little spasm of laughter; and her hands began,
                        unconsciously, to open and close, open and close, weaving in soft, outer
                        darkness.
                    “We may leave them out of the argument.—But there remain the elect, Richard,
                        among whom I dare count myself. And over them, never doubt it, just that
                        which you hate and which appears at first sight to separate you so cruelly
                        from other men, gives you a strange empire. You stimulate, you arrest, you
                        satisfy one’s imagination, as does the spectacle of some great drama. You
                        are at once enslaved and emancipated by this thing—to you hateful, to me
                        adorable—beyond all measure of bondage or freedom inflicted upon, or enjoyed
                        by, other men. And in this, just this, lies magnificent compensation if you
                        would but see it. I have always known that—known that if you would put aside
                        your arrogance and pride, and yield yourself a little, it was possible to
                        love you, and give you such joy in loving, as one could give to no one else
                        on earth.”
                    Her voice sweetened yet more. She leaned forward, pressing her bosom against
                        the rough ironwork of the balcony.
                    “I knew that from the first hour we met in the variegated, autumn sunshine,
                        upon the green?sward, before the white summerhouse overlooking that noble,
                        English, woodland view. I saw you, and so doing I saw mysteries of joy in
                        myself unimagined by me before. It went very hard with me then, Richard. It
                        has gone very hard with me ever since.”
                    
                    Madame de Vallorbes’ words died away in a grave and delicate whisper. But she
                        did not turn her head, nor did Richard speak. Only, close there beside her,
                        she heard him breathe, panting short and quick even as a dog pants, while a
                        certain vibration seemed to run along the rough ironwork against which she
                        leaned. And by these signs Helen judged her speech, though unanswered, had
                        not been wholly in vain. From below, the luscious fragrance of the garden,
                        the chime of falling water, and the urgent voice of the painted
                        pleasure?city came up about her. Night had veiled the face of Naples, even
                        as Helen’s own. Yet lines of innumerable lights described the suave curve of
                        the bay, climbed the heights of Posilipo, were doubled in the oily waters of
                        the harbour, spread abroad alluring gaiety in the wide piazzas, and shone
                        like watchful and soliciting eyes from out the darkness of narrow street,
                        steep lane, and cut?throat alley. While, above all that, high uplifted
                        against the opacity of the starless sky, a blood?red beacon burned on the
                        summit of Vesuvius, the sombre glow of it reflected upon the under side of
                        the masses of downward?rolling smoke as upon the belly of some
                        slow?crawling, monstrous serpent.
                    Suddenly Helen spoke once again, and with apparent inconsequence.
                    “Richard, you must have known she could never satisfy you—why did you try to
                        marry Constance Quayle?”
                    “To escape.”
                    “From whom—from me?”
                    “From myself, which is much the same thing as saying from you, I
                        suppose.”
                    “And you could not escape?”
                    “So it seems.”
                    “But—but, dear Richard,” she said plaintively, yet with very winning
                        sweetness, “why, after all, should you want so desperately to escape?”
                    Richard moved a little farther from her.
                    “I have already explained that to you, to the point of insult so you tell
                        me,” he said. “Surely it is unnecessary to go over the ground again?”
                    “You carry your idealism to the verge of slight absurdity,” she answered.
                        “Oh! you of altogether too little faith, how should you gauge the full
                        flavour of the fruit till you have set your teeth in it? Better, far better,
                        be a sacramentalist like me and embrace the idea through the act, than
                        refuse the act in dread of imperilling the dominion of the idea. You put the
                        cart before the horse with a vengeance, Dickie! There’s such a thing as being so reverently?minded towards
                        your god that he ceases to be the very least profit or use to you.”
                    And again she heard that panting breath beside her. Again laughter bubbled up
                        in her fair throat, and her hands fell to weaving the soft, outer
                        darkness.
                    “You must perceive that it cannot end here and thus,” she said presently.
                    “Of course not,” he answered.—Then, after a moment’s pause, he added, coldly
                        enough:—“I foresaw that, so I gave orders yesterday that the yacht was not
                        to be laid up, but only to coal and provision, and undergo some imperatively
                        necessary repairs. She should be ready for sea by the end of the week.”
                    Helen turned sideways, and the bland light, from the room within, touched her
                        face now as well as her kneeling figure.
                    “And then, and then?” she demanded, almost violently.
                    “Then I shall go,” Richard replied. “Where, I do not yet know, but as far,
                        anyhow, as the coal in the yacht’s bunkers will drive her. Distance is more
                        important than locality just now. And I leave you here at the villa, Helen.
                        Do not regret that you came. I don’t.”
                    He too had turned to the light, which revealed his face ravaged and aged by
                        stress of emotion, revealed too the homelessness, as of empty space,
                        resident in his eyes.
                    “I shall be glad to remember the place pleases and speaks to you. It has been
                        rather a haven of rest to me during these last two years. You would have had
                        it at my death, in any case. You have it a little sooner—that’s all.”
                    But Helen held out her arms.
                    “The villa, the villa,” she cried, “what do I want with that! God in heaven,
                        are you utterly devoid of all sensibility, all heart? Or are you
                        afraid—afraid even yet, oh, very chicken?livered lover—that behind the
                        beauty of Naples you may find the filth? It is not so, Dickie. It is not so,
                        I tell you.—Look at me. What would you have more? Surely, for any man, my
                        love is good enough!”
                    And then hurriedly, with a rustling of silken skirts, hot with anger from
                        head to heel, she sprang to her feet.
                    Across the room one of the men?servants advanced.
                    “The carriage is at the door, sir,” he said.
                    And Madame de Vallorbes’ voice broke in with a singular lightness and
                        nonchalance:—
                    “Surely it is rather imprudent to go out again to?night? You told me, at
                        dinner, you were not well, that you had had a touch of fever.”
                    
                    She held out her hand, smiling serenely.
                    “Be advised,” she said, “avoid malaria.—I shall see you before I go
                        to?morrow? Yes—an afternoon train, I think. Good?night, we meet at breakfast
                        as usual.”
                    She stepped in at the window, gathered up certain small properties—a gold
                        scent?bottle, one or two books, a blotting?case,as with a view to final
                        packing and departure. Just as she reached the door she heard Richard say
                        curtly:—
                    “Send the carriage round. I shall not want it to?night.”
                    But even so Helen did not turn back. On the contrary, she ran, light of foot
                        as the little dancer, of long ago, with blush?roses in her hat, through all
                        the suite of lofty rooms to her own sea?blue, sea?green bed?chamber, and
                        there, sitting down before the toilet?table, greeted her own radiant image
                        in the glass. Her lips were very red. Her eyes shone like pale stars on a
                        windy night.
                    “Quick, quick, undress me, Zélie! Put me to bed. I am simply expiring of
                        fatigue,” she said.
                
                
                    CHAPTER IX
                    CONCERNING THAT DAUGHTER OF CUPID AND PSYCHE WHOM MEN CALL
                        VOLUPTAS
                    THE furniture, though otherwise of the customary proportions, had
                        all been dwarfed. This had been achieved in some cases by ingenious design
                        in its construction, in others by the simple process of cutting down, thus
                        reducing table and chair, couch and bureau, in itself of whatever grace of
                        style, dignity of age, or fineness of workmanship, to an equality of
                        uncomely degradation in respect of height. The resultant effect was of false
                        perspective. Nor was this unpleasing effect lessened by the proportions of
                        the room itself. In common with all those of the entresol, it was noticeably
                        low in relation to its length and width, while the stunted vaultings of its
                        darkly?frescoed ceiling produced an impression of heaviness rather than of
                        space. Bookcases, dwarfed as were all the other furnishings, lined the walls
                        to within about two feet of the spring of the said vaulting. Made of red
                        cedar and unpolished, the cornices and uprights of them were carved with
                        arabesques in high relief. An antique, Persian carpet, sombre in colouring
                        and of great value, covered the greater portion of the pale, pink and grey,
                        mosaic pavement of the floor. Thick, rusty?red, Genoa?velvet curtains were
                            drawn over each low, square window. A
                        fire of logs burned on the open hearth. And this, notwithstanding the
                        unaccustomed warmth of the outside air, did but temper the chill atmosphere
                        of the room and serve to draw a faint aroma from the carven cedar wood.
                    It was here, to his library,—carried downstairs by his menservants as a
                        helpless baby?child might be,—that Richard Calmady had come when Helen de
                        Vallorbes departed so blithely to her bed?chamber. And it was here he
                        remained, though nearly two hours had elapsed since then, finding sleep
                        impossible.
                    For the wakefulness and unrest of rapidly breeding illness were upon him. His
                        senses and his will had been in very active conflict. Desire had licked him,
                        as with fiery tongues, driving him onward. Honour, self?contempt in face of
                        temptation to sensual indulgence, an aspiration after somewhat stoic
                        asceticism which had come to influence his action of late, held him back.
                        But now, here and alone, the immediately provoking cause of passion removed,
                        reaction against the strain of all that had very sensibly set in. He felt
                        strangely astray, as though drifting at hazard upon the waters of an
                        unquiet, mist?blinded sea. He was conscious of a deep?seated preoccupation
                        regarding some matter, which he was alike unable to forget or to define.
                        Formless images perplexed his vision. Formless thoughts pursued one another,
                        as with the hurry of rumoured calamity, through his mind. A desolating
                        apprehension of things insufficiently developed, of the inconclusive, the
                        immature, the unattained, of things mutilated, things unfinished, born out
                        of due time and incomplete, oppressed his fancy. Even the events of the last
                        few hours, in which he had played so considerable a part, took on a shadowy
                        semblance, ceased to appeal to him as realities, began to merge themselves
                        in that all?pervading apprehension of defectiveness, of that which is
                        wanting, lopped off, so to speak, and docked. It was to him as though all
                        natural, common sense relations were in abeyance, as though his own, usually
                        precise, mental processes were divorced from reason and experience, had got
                        out of perspective, in short—even as this low, wide, cedar?scented library,
                        of which the vaulted ceiling seemed to approach unduly close to the marble
                        floor, and all its dwarfed furnishings, its squat tables and almost legless
                        chairs, had got out of perspective.
                    The alternate purposeless energy and weariful weakness of fever, just as the
                        alternate dry flush and trembling chill of it, distressed him. He had
                        slipped on a smoking?coat, but even the
                        weight of this thin, silk garment seemed oppressive, although, now and
                        again, he felt as though around his middle he wore a belt of ice. Not
                        without considerable exertion he rolled forward a couch—wide, high?backed,
                        legless, mounted upon little wheels—to the vicinity of the fire. He drew
                        himself up on to it and rested among the piled?up cushions. Perhaps, if he
                        waited, exercising patience, sleep might mercifully visit him and deliver
                        him from this intolerable confusion of mind. Deliver him, too, from that
                        hideous apprehension of universal mutilation, of maimed purposes, maimed
                        happenings, of a world peopled by beings maimed as he was himself, but after
                        a more subtle and intimate fashion—a fashion intellectual or moral rather
                        than merely physical—so that they had to him, just now, an added hatefulness
                        of specious lying, since to ordinary seeing they appeared whole, while whole
                        they truly and actually were not.
                    Sternly he tried to shake himself free of these morbid fancies, to bring his
                        imagination under control and force himself once again to join hands with
                        reality and common sense. And, to this end, he turned his attention to the
                        consideration of practical matters. He dwelt on the details of the coaling
                        and revictualling of his yacht, upon the objective of the voyage upon which
                        he proposed to start a few days hence. He reviewed the letters which must be
                        written and the arrangements which must be made with a view to putting his
                        cousin legally in possession of the villa, the rent of which he proposed
                        still to pay to her husband. This suite of rooms he would retain for his own
                        use. That was necessary, obligatory. Yet, why must he retain it? He did not
                        propose to return and live here at any future time. This episode was over—or
                        rather, had it not simply failed of completion? Was it not, like all the
                        rest, maimed, lopped off, ungainly docked? Then, where came in the
                        obligation to reserve these rooms? He could not remember. Yet he knew that
                        he was compelled to do so, because—because—
                    And, once again, Richard’s power of concentration broke down. Once again his
                        thought eluded him, becoming tangled, fugitive, not to be grasped. While,
                        like swarms of shrill squeaking bats disturbed in the recesses of some
                        age?old cavern by sudden intrusion of voices and of lights, half?formed
                        visions, half?formed ideas, once again flapped duskily about him, torturing
                        in their multiplicity alike to his senses and his brain. He fought with
                        them, striving to beat them off in a madness of disgust, half suffocated by
                        the fanning of their foul and stifling wings. Then, exhausted by the
                        conflict, he stumbled and fell, while they
                        closed down on him. And he, losing consciousness, slept.
                    That unconsciousness lasted in point of fact but for a few minutes. Yet to
                        Richard those minutes were as years, as centuries. At length, still heavy
                        with dreamless slumber, he was aware of the stealthy turning of a key in a
                        lock. Little padding foot?falls, soft as those of some strong, yet dainty,
                        cat?creature crossed the carpet. A whisper of silk came along with them,
                        like the murmur of the breeze in an oak grove on a clear, hot, summer noon,
                        or the sibilant ripple of the sea upon spaces of fine?ribbed, yellow sand.
                        And the impression produced upon Richard was delicious, as of one passing
                        from a close room into the open air. Confusion and exhaustion left him.
                        Energy returned. The energy of breeding fever merely; yet to him it appeared
                        that of refreshment, of renewed and abounding health. He was conscious, too,
                        of a will outside himself, acting upon his will—a will self?secure,
                        impregnable, working with triumphant daring toward a single end. It
                        certainly was unmaimed—in its present manifestation in any case. It told,
                        and with assurance, of completion, of attainment. Yielding himself to it,
                        with something of the recklessness a man yields himself to the poison which
                        yet promises relief, Richard opened his eyes.
                    Before him stood Helen de Vallorbes. In one hand she carried a little lamp.
                        In the other her high?heeled, cloth?of?gold slippers. Her feet were bare. In
                        the haste of the journey, from her bed?chamber upstairs through the great
                        rooms and down the marble stairs, the fronts of the sea?blue, sea?green
                        dressing?gown she wore had flown apart, thus disclosing not only her
                        delicate night?dress, but—since this last was fine to the point of
                        transparency—all the secret loveliness of her body and her limbs. Her
                        shining hair curled low upon her forehead, half concealed her pretty ears,
                        and lay upon her shoulders like a little, golden cape. And, from out this
                        brightness of her hair, the exultant laughter bubbling in her throat, the
                        small lamp carried high in one hand, she looked down at Richard Calmady.
                    “I waited till the hours grew old and you did not come to me, so I have come
                        to you, Dickie,” she said. “Let what will happen to?morrow, this very
                        certainly shall happen to?night—that with you and me Love shall have his own
                        way, speak his own language, be worshipped with the rites, be found in the
                        sacraments, ordained by himself, and to which all nature is, and has been,
                        obedient since life on earth first began!”
                    Helen set down her lamp, let drop her slippers upon the floor, sprang across
                        the intervening space, fierce, yet graceful, as some lithe and amorous beast, flung herself down
                        beside Richard Calmady upon the couch, and caressed him with quick,
                        lascivious fingers, while her lips fastened on his lips.
                    Not till the grey of a rain?washed, windy morning had come, and Naples had
                        put off its merry sinning, changing from a city of pleasure to a city of
                        labour and, too often, of callously inflicted pain, did Helen de Vallorbes
                        leave the cedar?scented library. The fire of logs had burnt itself out upon
                        the hearth, and other fires, perhaps, had pretty thoroughly burnt themselves
                        out likewise. Then, with the extinguished lamp in one hand and her
                        high?heeled, cloth?of?gold slippers in the other, she had run swiftly,
                        barefoot, up the cold, marble stairs, through the suite of lofty rooms, her
                        image, in the bleak dimness of the wet morning, given back by their tall
                        mirrors as that of no mortal woman but some fear?driven, hurrying ghost.
                        Carefully closing the door of the bed?chamber behind her, she threw her
                        dressing?gown aside and buried herself in the luxurious softness of the
                        unslept?in bed. And she was only just in time. Servants began to move to and
                        fro. The house was awake.
                
                
                    CHAPTER X
                    THE ABOMINATION OF DESOLATION
                    SULLENLY, persistently, the rain came down. In the harbour the wash
                        was just sufficient to make the ravelled fruit?baskets, the shredded
                        vegetables, the crusts and offal thrown out from the galleys, heave and sway
                        upon the oily surface of the water, while screaming gulls dropped greedily
                        upon the floating refuse, and rising, circled over the black, liquid lanes
                        and open spaces between the hulls of the many ships. But it was insufficient
                        to lift the yacht, tied up to the southern quay of the Porto Grande. She lay
                        there inert and in somewhat sorry plight under the steady downpour. For the
                        moment all the winsome devilry of a smart, sea?going craft was dead in her;
                        and she sulked, ashamed through all her eight hundred tons of wood and iron,
                        copper, brass, and steel. For she was coaling overdeck, and was grimy from
                        stem to stern. While, arrayed in the cast clothes of all Europe, tattered,
                        undersized, gesticulating, the human scum of Naples swarmed up the steep,
                        narrow planks from the inky lighters and in over her side.
                    “Beastly dirty job this. Shan’t get her paint clean under a week!” the first mate grumbled to his companion,
                        the second mate—a dark?haired, dreamy?eyed, West?country lad, but just out
                        of his teens.
                    The two officers, in dripping oilskins, stood at the gangway checking the
                        tally of coal?baskets as they came on board. Just now there was a pause in
                        the black procession, as an empty lighter sheered off, making room for a
                        full one to come alongside, thus rendering conversation momentarily
                        possible.
                    “Pity the Boss couldn’t have stayed on shore till we were through with it and
                        cleaned up a bit,” the speaker continued. “Makes the old man no end waxy to
                        have anyone on board when the yacht’s like she is. I don’t blame him. She’s
                        as neat and pretty as a white daisy in a green pasture when she’s away to
                        sea. And now, poor little soul, she’s a regular slut.”
                    “I know I’d ’ave stayed ashore fast enough if I was the Boss,” the boy said,
                        half wistfully. “That villa of his is like a piece of poetry. I keep on
                        saying over to myself how it looks.”
                    “Oh! it’s not so bad for foreign parts,” the senior officer replied. “And
                        you’re young yet and soft, Penberthy. You’ll come off that presently.
                        England’s best for houses, town and country; and most other things—women,
                        and fights, and even sunshine, for when you do get sunshine at home there’s
                        no spite in it.—Hi! there, you, ganger,” he shouted suddenly, and
                        resentfully, leaning out over the bulwarks, “hurry ’em up a bit, can’t you?
                        You don’t suppose I mean to stand here till the second anniversary of the
                        Day of Judgment, watching your blithering, chicken?shanked macaronies suck
                        rotten oranges, do you? Start ’em up again. Whatever are you waiting for,
                        man? Start ’em up, I say.”
                    The boy’s dreamy eyes, full of unwritten verse, dwelt with a curious
                        indifference upon the broken procession of ascending, black figures. He had
                        but lately joined, and to him both the fine vessel and her owner were
                        invested with a certain romance.
                    “What was the fancy for calling the yacht the Reprieve?” he
                        asked presently.
                    “Wait till you’ve had the chance to take a good look at Sir Richard, and
                        you’ll answer your question yourself,” the other man answered oracularly.
                        Then he broke out again into sustained invective:—“Hold up there, you little
                        fool of a tightrope?dancing, bella Napoli
                        gorilla, and don’t go dropping good, honest, Welsh steam?coal overboard into
                        your confounded, stinking, local sewer! I don’t care to see any of your
                        blamed posturings, don’t flatter yourself. Hold up your grimacing,
                        great?grandson of a lousy she?ape, can’t you, and walk straight.—Take him all round Sir Richard Calmady’s the
                        best Boss I ever sailed with—one of the sternest, but the civilest
                        too.—Shove ’em along, ganger, will you? Shove ’em along, I say.—He’s one of
                        the few men I’ve loved, I’m not ashamed to say it, Mr. Penberthy, and about
                        the only one I ever remember to have feared, in all my life.”
                    Meanwhile, if the scene to seaward was cheerless, that to landward offered
                        but small improvement. For the murk of low?brooding cloud and falling rain
                        blotted out the Castel S. Elmo, and the Capo di Monte and Pizzafalcone
                        heights. Even the Castello del’Ovo down on the shore line, comparatively
                        near at hand, loomed up but a denser mass of indigo?grey amid the all
                        obtaining greyness. The tall multi?coloured, many?shuttered houses fronting
                        the quays—restaurants, cafés,
                        money?changers’ bureaux, ships’ chandlers, and slop?shops—looked tawdry and
                        degraded as a clown’s painted face seen by daylight. Thick, malodorous
                        vapours arose from the squalid streets, lying back on the level, and from
                        the crowded shipping of the port. These hung in the stagnant air, about the
                        forest of masts and the funnels of steamers. And the noise of the place was
                        as that of Bedlam let loose.—The long?drawn, chattering rush of the coal
                        pitched from the baskets down the echoing, iron shoots. The grate and scream
                        of saws cutting through blocks of stone and marble. The grind of heavy
                        wheels upon the broken, irregular flags. The struggling clatter of hoofs,
                        lashing of whips, squeal of mules, savage voices raised in cries and
                        imprecations. The clank and roar of machinery. The repeated bellowing of a
                        great liner, blowing off steam as she took up her berth in the outer
                        harbour. The shattering rattle of the chains of a steam crane, when the
                        monster iron?arm swung round seeking or depositing its burden and the crank
                        ran out in harsh anger, as it seemed, and defiance. And through all this, as
                        undercurrent, the confused clamour of the ever?shifting, ever?present crowd,
                        and the small, steady drip of the rain. Squalid, sordid, brutal even, the
                        coarse actualities of her trade and her poverty alike disclosed, her
                        fictions and her foulness uncondoned by reconciling sunshine, Naples had
                        declined from radiant goddess to common drab.
                    It was in this character that Richard Calmady, driving yesterday and for the
                        first time through the streets at noon, had been fated to see his
                        so?fondly?idealised city. It was in this character that he apprehended it
                        again to?day, waiting in his deck?cabin until cessation of the rain and
                        on?coming of the friendly dusk should render it not wholly odious to sit out
                        on deck. The hours lagged, and into even this bright and usually spotless
                            apartment —with its shining, white
                        walls, its dark, blue leather and polished, mahogany fittings—the coal dust
                        penetrated. It rimmed the edge of the books neatly ranged on the racks. It
                        smirched the charts laid out on the square locker?table below. It drifted in
                        at the cabin windows, along with the babel of sound and the all?pervading
                        stench of the port. This was, in itself, sufficiently distasteful,
                        sufficiently depressing. And to Richard, just now, the disgust of it came
                        with the heightened sensibility of physical illness, and as accompaniment to
                        an immense private shame and immense self?condemnation, a conviction of
                        outlawry and a desolation passing speech. He looked for comfort, for promise
                        of restoration, and found none, in things material or things intellectual,
                        in others or in himself. For his mind, always prone to apprehend by images
                        rather than by words, and to advance by analogy rather than by argument,
                        discovered in surrounding aspects and surrounding circumstance a rather
                        hideously apt parable and illustration of its present state. Just as this
                        seemingly fair city was proven, on intimate acquaintance, repulsive beyond
                        the worst he had ever feared and earnestly refused to know of it, so a
                        certain fair woman, upon whom, since boyhood, his best, most chivalrous,
                        most unselfish, affections had centred, was proven—herself, moreover,
                        flagrantly contributing to that proving—vile beyond all that rumour, heard
                        and passionately denied by him, had ever ventured to whisper concerning her.
                        Nor was the misery of this revelation lessened by the knowledge that his own
                        part in it all had been very base. He had sinned before. He would sin again
                        probably. Richard had long ceased to regard these matters from a strictly
                        puritanic standpoint. But this particular sinning was different to any that
                        had gone before, or which could come after it. For it partook—so at least,
                        it now appeared to him—of the nature of sacrilege, since he had sinned
                        against his ideal, degrading that to gross uses which he had agreed with
                        himself to hold sacred, defiling it and, thereby, very horribly defiling
                        himself.
                    And this disgrace of their relation, his own and hers, the inherent
                        abomination of it all and its inherent falsity, had been forced home on him
                        with a certain violence of directness just in the common course of daily
                        happenings. For among the letters, brought to him along with his first
                        breakfast yesterday after that night of secret licence, had been three of
                        serious import. One was from Lady Calmady; and that he put aside with a
                        certain anger, calling himself unwilling, knowing himself unfit, to read it.
                        Another he tore open. The handwriting was unknown to him. He began reading
                        it in bewilderment. Then he understood.
                    
                    “MONSIEUR,”—it ran,—“You are in process of exterminating me. But, since I
                        have reason to believe that no sufficient opportunity has been afforded you
                        of realising the enormity of your conduct, I rally the profoundness of
                        nobility which I discover within me? I calm myself. I go further, I explain.
                        Living in retirement, you may not have learned that I am in Naples. I
                        followed your cousin here—Madame de Vallorbes. My connection with her
                        represents the supreme passion of my passionate youth. At once a frenzy and
                        an anodyne, I have found in it the inspiration of my genius in its later
                        development. This work must not be put a stop to. It is too majestic, it is
                        weighted with too serious consequences to the whole of thinking France, of
                        thinking Europe. A less experienced woman cannot satisfy the extravagance of
                        my desires, the demands of my all?consuming imagination. The reverence with
                        which a person, such as yourself, must regard commanding talent, the
                        concessions he must be willing to make to its necessities, are without
                        limit. This I cannot doubt that you will admit. The corollary is obvious.
                        Either, monsieur, you will immediately
                        invite me to reside with you at your villa—thereby securing for yourself
                        daily intercourse with a nature of distinguished merit—or you will restore
                        Madame de Vallorbes to me without hesitation or delay. Her devotion to me is
                        absolute. How could it fail to be so, since I have lavished upon her the
                        treasures of my extraordinary personality? But a fear of insular prejudice
                        on your part withholds her at this moment from full expression of that
                        devotion. She suffers as well as myself. It will be your privilege to put a
                        term to this suffering by requesting me to join her, or by restoring her to
                        me. To do otherwise will be to prolong the eclipse of my genius, and thereby
                        outrage the conscience of civilised humanity which breathlessly awaits the
                        next utterance of its chosen poet. If you require the consolation of
                        feminine society, marry—it would be very simple—some white?souled, English
                        miss. But restore to me, to whom her presence is indispensable, this woman
                        of regal passions. I shall present myself at your house to?day to receive
                        your answer in person. The result of a refusal, on your part, to receive me
                        will be attended by calamitous consequences to yourself.—Accept, monsieur, the expression of my highest
                        consideration,
                    PAUL AUGUSTE DESTOURNELLE.”
                    For the moment Richard saw red, mad with rage at the insolence of the writer.
                        And then came the question, was it true, that which this letter implied? Had
                        Helen, indeed, lied to him? And,
                        notwithstanding its insane vanity, did this precious epistle give a more
                        veracious account of her relation to the young poet than that which she had
                        herself volunteered? He tried to put the thought from him. Who was he—to?day
                        of all days—to be nice about the conduct of another? Who was he to sit in
                        judgment? So he turned to his correspondence again, taking another letter,
                        at random, from the pile. And then, looking at the superscription, he turned
                        somewhat sick.
                    “MON CHER,”— wrote M. de Vallorbes,—“My steward informs me that he has just
                        received your draft for a quarter’s rent of the villa. I thank you a
                        thousand times for your admirable punctuality. Decidedly you are of those
                        with whom it is a consolation to do business. Need I assure you that the
                        advent of this money is far from inopportune, since a grateful country,
                        while showering distinctions upon me with one hand, with the other picks my
                        pocket? I find it not a little expensive this famous military service! But
                        then, ever since I can remember, I have found all that afforded me the
                        slightest active pleasure equally that! And this sport of war, I promise
                        you, is the most excellent sport in which I have as yet participated. It
                        satisfies the primitive instincts more thoroughly than even your English
                        fox?hunting. A battue of Communards is obviously superior to a battue of pheasants. To the dignity of killing
                        one’s fellow?men is added the satisfaction of ridding oneself of vermin. It
                        becomes a matter of sanitation and self?respect. And this, indirectly,
                        recalls to me, that report declares my wife to be with you at Naples.
                            Mon cher je vous en fais câdeau. With
                        you, at least, I know that my honour is safe. You may even instil into her
                        mind some faint conception of the rudiments of morality. To be frank with
                        you, she needs that. A couple of months ago she did me the honour to
                        elope—temporarily, of course—with M. Paul Destournelle. You may have
                        glanced, one day, at his crapulous verses. I suppose honour demanded that I
                        should pursue the guilty pair and account for one, if not both, of them. But
                        I was too busily engaged with my little Communards. We set these gentry up against a wall and dispose
                        of them in batches.. I have had a good deal of this, but, as I say, it has
                        not yet become monotonous. Traits of individual character lend it vivacity.
                        And then, putting aside the exigencies of my profession, I do not know that
                        anything is to be gained by inviting public scandal. You have an English
                        proverb to the effect that one should wash one’s dirty linen at home. This I
                        have tried to do, as you cannot but be aware, all along. If one has had
                            the misfortune to marry Messalina, one
                        learns to be philosophic. A few lovers more or less, in that connection,
                        what, after all, does it matter? Indeed, I begin to derive ironical
                        consolation from the fact of their multiplicity. The existence of one would
                        have constituted a reflection upon my charms. But a matter of ten, fifteen,
                        twenty, ceases to be in any degree personal to myself. Only I object to
                        Destournelle. He is too young, too rococco. He represents a descent in the scale. I prefer des hommes mures, generals, ministers, princes.
                        The devil knows we have had our share of such! Your generosity to her has
                        saved us from Jews so far, and from nouveaux
                            riches, by relieving the business of commercial aspects. Give
                        her some salutary advice, therefore, mon
                            cher, and if she becomes inconvenient forward her to Paris. I
                        forgive to seventy?times?seven, being still proud enough to struggle after
                        an appearance of social and conjugal decency. Enfin it is a relief to have unburdened myself for once, and
                        you have been the good genius of my unfortunate ménage, for which Heaven reward you.—Yours, in true cousinly
                        regard and supreme reliance on your discretion,
                    ANGELO LUIGI FRANCESCO DE VALLORBES.”
                    That this, in any case, had a stamp of sincerity upon it, Richard could not
                        doubt. It must be admitted that he had long ceased to accept Madame de
                        Vallorbes’ estimate of her husband with unqualified belief. But, be that as
                        it might, whether he were a consummate, or merely an average profligate, one
                        thing was certain that this man trusted him—Richard Calmady,—and that
                        he—Richard Calmady—had very vilely betrayed that trust. He stared at the
                        letter, and certain sentences in it seemed to sear him, even as the
                        branding?iron used on a felon might. This was a new shame, different to, and
                        greater than, any his deformity had ever induced in him, even as evil done
                        is different to, and greater than, evil suffered. Morality may be relative
                        only and conventional. Honour, for all persons of a certain standing and
                        breeding, remains absolute. And it was precisely of his own honour that he
                        had deprived himself. Not only in body, but in character, he was henceforth
                        monstrous. For a while Richard had remained very still, looking at this
                        thing into which he had made himself as though it were external and
                        physically visible to him.
                    Then, suddenly, he had reached out his hand for his mother’s letter. A
                        decision of great moment was impending. He would know what she had to say
                        before finally making that decision. He wondered bitterly, grimly, whether
                        her words would plunge him yet deeper in
                        this abyss of self?hatred and self?contempt.
                    “MY DARLING,”—she wrote,—“I am foolishly glad to learn that you are back at
                        Naples. It gives me comfort to know you are even thus much nearer home and
                        in a country where I too have travelled and of which I retain many dear and
                        delightful recollections. You may be surprised, perhaps, to see the
                        unaccustomed address upon my notepaper and may wonder what has made me
                        guilty of deserting my post. Now, since the worst of it is certainly over, I
                        may tell you that my health has failed a good deal of late. Nothing of a
                        really serious nature—you need not be alarmed about me. But I had got into a
                        rather weak and unworthy state, from which it became very desirable I should
                        rouse myself. Selfishness is insidious, and none the less reprehensible
                        because it takes the apparently innocent form of sitting in a chair with
                        one’s eyes shut! However that best of men, John Knott, brought very bracing
                        influences to bear on me, convincing me of sin—in the gentlest way in the
                        world—by means of Honoria St. Quentin. And so I picked myself up, dear
                        Dickie,—picked the whole of myself up, as I hope, always saving and
                        excepting my self?indulgent inertia,—and came away here to Ormiston. At
                        first, I confess, I felt very much like a dog at a fair, or the proverbial
                        mummy at a feast. But they all bore with me in the plenty of their kindness;
                        and, in the last week, I have banished the mummy and trained the scared dog
                        to altogether polite and pretty behaviour. Till I came back to it, I hardly
                        realised how truly I loved this place. How should it be otherwise? I met
                        your father first here after his third term at Eton. I remember he snubbed
                        me roundly. I met him again the year before our marriage. Without vanity I
                        declare that then he snubbed me not one little bit. These things are very
                        far away. But to me, though far away, they are very vivid and very lovely. I
                        see them as you, when you were small, so often pleaded to see a fairy
                        landscape by looking through the large end of the gold and tortoiseshell
                        spy?glass upon my writing?table. All of which may seem to you somewhat
                        childish and trivial, but I grow an old woman and have a fancy for toys and
                        tender make?believes—such as fairy landscapes seen through the big end of a
                        spy?glass. The actual landscape, at times, is a trifle discouragingly
                        rain?blotted and cloudy!—Roger and Mary are here. Their two boys are just
                        gone back to school again. They are fine, courteous, fearless, little
                        fellows. Roger makes a rather superb middle?aged man. He has much of my
                            father— your grandfather’s reticence
                        and dignity. Indeed, he might prove slightly alarming, was one not so
                        perfectly sure of him, dear creature. Mary remains, as of old, the most
                        wholesome and helpful of women. Yes, it is good to dwell, for a time, among
                        one’s own people. And I cannot but rejoice that my eldest brother has come
                        to an arrangement by which, at his death, your uncle William will receive a
                        considerable sum of money in lieu of the property. This last will go direct
                        to Roger, and eventually to his boys. If your uncle William had a son, the
                        whole matter would be different. But I own it would hurt me that in the
                        event of his death there should be no Ormiston at Ormiston after these many
                        generations. In all probability the place would be sold immediately, for it
                        is an open secret that, through no fault of his own, poor man, William is
                        sadly embarrassed in money matters. And he has other sorrows—of a rather
                        terrible nature, since they are touched with disgrace. But here you will
                        probably detect a point of prejudice, so I had best stop!—I look out upon a
                        grey, northern sea, where ‘the white horses fume and fret’ under a cold,
                        grey, northern sky. The oaks in the park are just thickening with
                        yellow?green buds. And there, close to my window, perched on a topmost twig,
                        a missel?thrush is singing, facing the wind like a gentleman. You look out
                        upon a purple sea, I suppose, beneath clear skies and over orange trees and
                        palms. I wonder if any brave bird pipes to you as my storm?cock to me? It
                        brings up one’s courage to hear his song, so strong and wild and sweet, in
                        the very teeth of the gale too! But now you will have had enough of my news
                        and more than enough. I write to you more freely, you see, than for a long
                        time past, being myself more free of spirit. And therefore I dare add this,
                        in all and every case, my darling, God keep you. And remember, should you
                        weary of wandering, that not only the doors of Brockhurst, but the doors of
                        my heart, stand forever wide open to welcome you home.—Yours always,
                    K.C.”
                    Reading which gentle, yet in a sense daring, words, Richard’s shame took on
                        another complexion, but one by no means calculated to mitigate the burning
                        of it. His treachery towards de Vallorbes became almost vulgar and of small
                        moment beside his cruelty to this superbly magnanimous woman, his mother.
                        For, all these years, determinately and of set purpose, defiant of every
                        better impulse, he had hardened his heart against her. To differ from her,
                        to cherish that which was unsympathetic to her, to put aside every tradition
                        in which she had nurtured him, to love
                        that which she condemned, to condemn that which she loved—and this, if
                        silently, still unswervingly—had been the ruling purpose of his action. That
                        which had its origin in passionate revolt against his own unhappy
                        disfigurement, had come to be an interest and object in itself. In this
                        quarrel with her—a quarrel intimate, pre?natal, anterior to consciousness
                        and to volition—he found the justification of his every lapse, his every
                        crookedness of conduct and of thought. Since he could not reach Almighty
                        God, and strike at the eternal First Cause which he held responsible for the
                        inalienable wrong done to him, he would strike, with cold?blooded
                        persistence, at the woman whom Almighty God had permitted to be His
                        instrument in the infliction of that wrong. And to where had that sustained
                        purpose of striking led him? Even—so he judged just now—to the dishonour and
                        desolation of to?day, following upon the sacrilegious licence of last
                        night.
                    All this Richard saw with the alternately groping, benumbed, mental vision
                        and the glaring, mental nakedness of breeding fever. Small wonder that
                        looking for comfort, for promise of restoration, he found none in things
                        material, in things intellectual, in others, or in himself! He felt
                        outcasted beyond hope of redemption; but not repentant, hardly remorseful
                        even, only aware of all that which had happened, and of his own state. For
                        Lady Calmady’s letter was to him little more, as yet, than a placing of
                        facts. To trade upon her magnificent generosity of affection, and seek
                        refuge in those outstretched arms now, with the mark of the branding?iron so
                        sensibly upon him, appeared to him of all contemptible doings the most
                        radically contemptible. Obviously it was impossible to go back. He must go
                        on rather—out of sight, out of mind. Fantastic schemes of disappearing, of
                        losing himself, far away in remote and nameless places, among the coral
                        islands of the Pacific or the chill majesty of the Antarctic seas, offered
                        themselves to his imagination. The practical difficulties presented by such
                        schemes, their infeasibility, did not trouble him. He would sever all
                        connection with that which had been, with that which had made for good
                        equally with that which had made for evil. By his own voluntary act and
                        choice he would become as a man dead, the disgrace of his malformed body,
                        the closer and more hideous disgrace of his defiled and prostituted soul,
                        surviving in legend merely, as might some ugly, old?time fable useful for
                        the frightening of unruly babes.
                    And to that end of self?obliteration he instantly applied himself, with
                        outward calm, but with the mental hurry and restless? ness of increasing illness. His first duty was to
                        end the whole matter of his relation to Helen,—Helen shorn of her divinity,
                        convicted liar and wanton, yet mistress still for him, as he feared, of
                        mighty enchantments. So he wrote to her very briefly. The note should be
                        given her later in the day. In it he stated that he should have left the
                        villa before this announcement reached her, left it finally and without
                        remotest prospect of return, since he could not doubt that she recognised,
                        as he did, how impossible it had become that he and she should meet again.
                        He added that he would communicate with her shortly as to business
                        arrangements. That done, he summoned Powell, his valet, bidding him pack. He
                        would go down to the yacht at once. He had received information which made
                        it imperative he should quit Naples immediately.
                    To be out of all this, rid of it, fairly started on the road of negation of
                        social being, negation of recognised existence, infected him like a madness.
                        But even the most forceful human will must bend to stupidities of detail and
                        of material fact. Unexpected delays had occurred. The yacht was not ready
                        for sea, neither coaled, nor provisioned, nor sound of certain small damages
                        to her machinery. Vanstone, the captain, might mislay his temper, and the
                        first mate expend himself in polysyllabic invective, young Penberthy cease
                        to dream, stewards, engineers, carpenters, cooks, quartermasters, seamen,
                        firemen, do their most willing and urgent best, nevertheless the morning of
                        next day, and even the afternoon of it, still found Richard Calmady seated
                        at the locker?table of the white?walled deck?cabin, his voyage towards
                        self?obliteration not yet begun.
                    Charts were out?spread before him, upon which, at weary intervals, he essayed
                        to trace the course of his coming wanderings. But his brain was dull, he had
                        no power of consecutive thought. That same madness of going was upon him
                        with undiminished power, yet he knew not where he wanted to go, hardly why
                        he wanted to go, only that a blind obsession of going drove him. He was
                        miserably troubled about other matters too—about that same brief letter he
                        had written to Helen before leaving the villa. He was convinced that he had
                        written such a letter; but struggle as he might to remember the contents of
                        it they remained to him a blank. He was haunted by the fear that in that
                        letter he had committed some irremediable folly, had bound himself to some
                        absurdly unworthy course of action. But what it might be escaped and, in
                        escaping, tortured him. And then, this surely was Friday, and Morabita sang
                        at the San Carlo to?night? And surely he had promised to be there, and to meet the famous prima donna and sup with her after the
                        performance, as in former days at Vienna? He had not always been quite kind
                        to her, poor, dear, fat, good?natured, silly soul! He could not fail her
                        now.—And then he went back to a chart of the South Pacific again. Only he
                        could not see it plainly, but saw, instead of it, the great folio of
                        copper?plate engravings lying on the broad window?seat of the eastern bay of
                        the Long Gallery at home. He was sitting there to watch for the racehorses
                        coming back from exercise, Tom Chifney pricking along beside them on his
                        handsome cob. And the long?ago, boyish desperation of longing for wholeness,
                        for freedom, brought a moistness to his eyes, and a lump into his throat.
                        And all the while the coal dust drifted in at each smallest crevice and
                        aperture; and the air was vibrant with rasping, jarring uproar and nauseous
                        with the stale, heavy odours of the city and the port. And steadily,
                        ceaselessly, the descending rain drummed upon the roofing overhead.
                    At length a stupor took him. His head sank upon his arms, folded upon those
                        outspread charts, while the noise of all the rude activities surrounding him
                        subtly transformed itself into that of a great orchestra. And above this,
                        superior to, yet nobly supported by it, Morabita’s voice rose in the suave
                        and passionate phrases of the glorious cavatina—“Ernani, Ernani, involami, all’abborito ampleso.”—Yes, her
                        voice was as good as ever! Richard drew a long breath of relief. Here at
                        least, was something true to itself; and amid so much of change, so much of
                        spoiling, still unspoilt!—He raised his head and listened. For something
                        must have happened, something of serious moment. The orchestra, for some
                        unaccountable reason, had suddenly broken down. Yes, it must be the
                        orchestra which disaster had overtaken, for a voice very certainly
                        continued. No, not a voice, but voices—those of Vanstone the captain, and
                        Price the first mate, and old Billy Jinn the boatswain—loud, imperative,
                        violently remonstrant; but swept under and swamped at moments by cries and
                        volleys of foulest, Neapolitan argot from
                        hoarse, Neapolitan throats. And that abruptly silenced orchestra?—Richard
                        came back to himself, came back to actualities of environment and prosaic
                        fact. An infinitely weariful despair seized him. For the sound that had
                        reached so sudden a termination was not that of cunningly?attuned musical
                        instruments, but the long?drawn, chattering rush of the coal, pitched from
                        the baskets down the echoing, iron shoots.
                    The cabin door opened discreetly and Powell, incarnation of decorous punctualities even amid existing
                        tumultuously discomposing circumstances, entered.
                    “From the villa, sir,” he said, depositing letters and newspapers upon the
                        table.
                    Richard put out his hand, turned them over mechanically. For again, somehow,
                        and notwithstanding the babel without, that exquisite invitation—“Ernani, Ernani, involami,”—assailed his
                        ears.
                    The valet waited a little, quiet and deferential in bearing, yet observing
                        his master with a certain keenness and anxiety.
                    “I saw Mr. Bates, as you desired, sir,” he said at last.
                    Richard looked up at him vaguely. And it struck him that while Powell was on
                        shore to?day he had undoubtedly had his hair cut. This interested him—though
                        why, he would have found it difficult to say.
                    “Mr. Bates thought you should be informed that a gentleman called early
                        yesterday afternoon, as he said by appointment.”
                    Yes—certainly Powell had had his hair cut.—“Did the gentleman give his
                        name?”
                    “Yes, sir, M. Paul Destournelle.”
                    Powell spoke slowly, getting his tongue carefully round the foreign
                        syllables, and, for all the confusion of his hearer’s mind, the name went
                        home. Vagueness passed from Richard’s glance.
                    “He was refused, of course.”
                    “Her ladyship had given orders that should any person of that name call he
                        was to be admitted.”—Powell spoke with evident reluctance. “Consequently Mr.
                        Bates was uncertain how to act, having received contrary orders from you,
                        sir, the day before yesterday. He explained this to her ladyship, but she
                        insisted.”
                    Richard’s mind had become perfectly lucid.
                    “Very well,” he said coldly.
                    “Mr. Bates also thought you should know, sir, that after M. Destournelle’s
                        visit her ladyship announced she should not remain at the villa. She left
                        about five o’clock, taking her maid. Charles followed with all the
                        baggage.”
                    The valet paused. Richard’s manner was decidedly discouraging, yet, something
                        further must at least be intimated.
                    “Her ladyship gave no address to Mr. Bates for the forwarding of her
                        letters.”
                    But here the cabin door, left slightly ajar by Powell, was opened wide, and
                        that with none of the calm and discretion displayed by the functionary in
                        question. A long perspective of grimy deck
                        behind him, his oilskins shiny from the wet, with trim black beard,
                        square?made, bold?eyed, hot?tempered, warm?hearted, alert, humorous—typical
                        West Countryman as his gentle dreamy cousin, Penberthy, the second mate,
                        though of a very different type—stood Captain Vanstone. His easily?ruffled
                        temper suffered from the after effects of what is commonly known as a “jolly
                        row,” and his speech was curt in consequence thereof.
                    “Sorry to disturb you, Sir Richard,” he said, “and still more sorry to
                        disappoint you, but it can’t be helped.”
                    Dickie turned upon him so strangely drawn and haggard a countenance, that
                        Vanstone with difficulty repressed an exclamation. He looked in quick
                        inquiry at the valet, who so far departed from his usual decorum as to nod
                        his head in assent to the silent questioning.
                    “What’s wrong now?” Richard said.
                    “Why, these beggarly rascals have knocked off. Price offered them a higher
                        scale of pay. I had empowered him to do so. But they won’t budge. The rain’s
                        washed the heart out of them. We’ve tried persuasion and we’ve tried
                        threats—it’s no earthly use. Not a basket more coal will they put on board
                        before five to?morrow morning.”
                    “Can’t we sail with what we have got?”
                    “Not enough to carry us to Port Said.”
                    “What will be the extent of the delay this time?” Richard asked. His tone had
                        an edge to it.
                    Again Captain Vanstone glanced at the valet.
                    “With luck we may get off to?morrow about midnight.”
                    He stepped back, shook himself like a big dog, scattering the water off his
                        oilskins in a shower upon the slippery deck. Then he came inside the cabin
                        and stood near Richard. His expression was very kindly, tender almost.
                    “You must excuse me, sir,” he said. “I know it doesn’t come within my
                        province to give you advice. But you do look pretty ill, Sir Richard.
                        Everyone’s remarking that. And you are ill, sir—you know it, and I know it,
                        and Mr. Powell here knows it. You ought to see a doctor, sir—and if you’ll
                        pardon plain language, this beastly cess?pit of a harbour is no fit place
                        for you to sleep in.”
                    And poor Dickie, after an instant of sharp annoyance, touched by the man’s
                        honest humanity smiled upon him—a smile of utter weariness, utter
                        hopelessness.
                    “Perfectly true. Get me out to sea then, Vanstone. I shall be better there
                        than anywhere else,” he said.
                    
                    Whereupon the kindly sailor?man turned away swearing gently into his trim,
                        black beard.
                    But the valet remained, impassive in manner, actively anxious at heart.
                    “Have you any orders for the carriage, sir?” he asked. “Garçia drove me down.
                        I told him to wait until I had inquired.”
                    Richard was long in replying. His brain was all confused and clouded again,
                        while again he heard the voice of the famous soprano—“Ernani, Ernani, involami.”
                    “Yes,” he said at last. “Tell Garçia to be here in good time to drive me to
                        the San Carlo. I have an appointment at the opera to?night.”
                
                
                    CHAPTER XI
                    IN WHICH DICKIE GOES TO THE END OF THE WORLD AND LOOKS OVER THE
                        WALL
                    THE opera box, which Richard Calmady had rented along with the Villa
                        Vallorbes, was fifth from the stage on the third tier, to the right of the
                        vast horse?shoe. Thus situated, it commanded a very comprehensive view of
                        the interior of the house. The parterre—its somewhat comfortless seats rising, as on iron
                        stilts, as they recede, row by row, from the proscenium—was packed. While,
                        since the aristocratic world had not yet left town, the boxes—piled, tier
                        above tier, without break of dress?circle or gallery, right up to the lofty
                        roof—were well filled. And it was the effect of these last that affected
                        Richard oddly, displeasingly, as, helped by Powell and Andrews, the first
                        footman?who acted as his table?steward on board the
                        Reprieve,—he made his way slowly down to the chair, placed on
                        the left, at the front of the box. For the accepted aspects and relations of
                        things seen were remote to him. He perceived effects, shapes, associations
                        of colour, divorced from their habitual significance. It was as though he
                        looked at the written characters of a language unknown to him, observing the
                        form of them, but attaching no intelligible meaning to that form. And so it
                        happened that those many superimposed tiers of boxes were to him as the
                        waxen cells of a gigantic honeycomb, against the angular darknesses of which
                        little figures, seen to the waist, took the light—the blond face, neck and
                        arms of some woman, the fair colours of her dress—and showed up with
                        perplexing insistence. For they were all
                        peopled, these cells of the honeycomb, and—so it seemed to him—with larvæ,
                        bright?hued, unworking, indolent, full?fed. Down there upon the parterre, in the close?packed ranks of
                        students, of men and women of the middle?class, soberly attired in walking
                        costume, he recognised the working bees of this giant hive. By their
                        unremitting labour the dainty waxen cells were actually built up, and those
                        larvæ were so amply, so luxuriously, fed. And the working bees—there were so
                        many, so very many of them! What if they became mutinous, rebelled against
                        labour, plundered and destroyed the indolent, succulent larvæ of which
                        he—yes, he, Richard Calmady—was unquestionably and conspicuously one?
                    He leaned back in his chair, pulled forward the velvet drapery so as to shut
                        out the view of the house, and fixed his eyes upon the heads of the
                        musicians in the orchestra. The overture was nearly over. The curtain would
                        very soon go up. Then he observed that Powell still stood near him. The man
                        was strangely officious to?day, he thought. Could that be connected in any
                        way with the fact he had had his hair cut? For a moment the notion appeared
                        to Dickie quite extravagantly amusing. But he kept his amusement, as so much
                        else, to himself. And again the working bees, down in the parterre, attracted his attention. They were
                        buzzing, buzzing angrily, displeased with the full?fed larvæ in the boxes,
                        because these last were altogether too social, talked too loud and too
                        continuously, drowning the softer passages of the overture. Those
                        dull?coloured insects had expended store of hard?earned life upon the queer
                        seats they occupied, mounted as upon iron stilts. They meant to have the
                        whole of that which they had paid for, and hear every note. If they swarmed,
                        now, swarmed upward, clung along the edges of those many tiers of boxes,
                        punished inconsiderate insolence with stings?—It would hardly be unjust.—But
                        there was Powell still, clad in sober garments. He belonged to the working
                        bees. And Richard became aware of a singular diffidence and embarrassment in
                        thinking of that. If they should swarm, those workers, he would rather the
                        valet did not see it, somehow. He was a good fellow, a faithful servant, a
                        man of nice feeling, and such an incident would place him in an awkward
                        position. He ought to be spared that. Carefully Dickie reasoned it all
                        out.
                    “You need not stay here any longer, Powell,” he said.
                    “When shall I return, sir?”
                    The curtain went up. A roll of drums, a chorus of men’s voices, somewhat
                        truculent, in the drinking song.
                    
                    “At the end of the performance, of course.”
                    But the valet hesitated.
                    “You might require to send some message, sir.”
                    Richard stared at the chorus. The opera being performed but this once,
                        economy prevailed. Costumiers had ransacked their stock for discovery of
                        garments not unpardonably inappropriate. The result showed a fine
                        superiority to details of time and place. One Spanish bandit, a portly
                            basso, figured in a surprising variety
                        of Highland dress designed, and that locally, for a chieftain in the opera
                        of Lucia di Lammermoor. His acquaintance with the
                        eccentricities of a kilt being of the slightest, consequences ensued broadly
                        humorous.—Again Dickie experienced great amusement. But that message?—Had he
                        really one to send? Probably he had. He could not remember, and this annoyed
                        him. Possibly he might remember later. He turned to Powell, forgetting his
                        amusement, forgetting the too intimate personal revelations of the unhappy
                            basso.
                    “Yes—well—come back at the end of the second act, then,” he said.
                    If the bees swarmed it would be over by that time, he supposed, so Powell’s
                        return would not matter much one way or the other. A persuasion of something
                        momentous about to be accomplished deepened in him. The madness of going,
                        which had so pushed him earlier in the day, fell dead before it. For this
                        concourse of living creatures must be gathered together to witness some
                        event commensurate in importance with the greatness of their number. He felt
                        sure of that. Yes—before long they would swarm. Incontestably they would
                        swarm!—Again he drew aside the velvet drapery and looked down curiously upon
                        the arena and its occupants. For a new idea had come to him regarding these
                        last. They still presented the effect of a throng of busy, angry insects.
                        But Richard knew better. He had penetrated their disguise, a disguise
                        assumed to ensure their ultimate purpose with the greater certainty. He knew
                        them to be human. He knew their purpose to be a moral one. And, looking upon
                        them, recognising the spirit which animated them, he was taken with a
                        reverence and sympathy for average, toiling humanity unfelt by him before.
                        For he saw that by these, the workers, the final issues are inevitably
                        decided, by these the final verdict is pronounced. Individually they may be
                        contemptible; but in their corporate intelligence, corporate strength, they
                        are little short of majestic. Of art, letters, practical civilisation, even
                        religion, even, in a degree, Nature herself, they are alike architects and
                        judges. It must be so. It always has been
                        so, time out of mind, in point of fact. And then he wondered why they were
                        so patient of constraint? Why had they not risen long ago and obliterated
                        the pretensions of those arrogant, indolent larvæ peopling the angular
                        apertures of the honey cells—those larvæ of whom, by birth and wealth,
                        sinfulness and uselessness, he was himself so conspicuous an example?
                    But then clearer understanding of this whole strange matter came to
                        him.—They, like all else,—mighty though they are in their corporate
                        intention,—are obedient to fate. They can only act when the time is ripe.
                        And then he understood still more clearly. Their purpose in congregating
                        here, whether they were conscious of it or not, was retributive. They were
                        present to witness and to accomplish an act of foreordained justice.—Richard
                        paused a moment, struggling with his own thought. And then he saw quite
                        plainly that he himself was the object of that act of foreordained justice,
                        he himself was the centre of that dimly?apprehended, approaching event. His
                        punishment, his deliverance by means of that punishment, was that which had
                        brought this great multitude together here to?night. He was awed. Yet with
                        that awe came thankfulness, gratitude, an immense sense of relief. He need
                        not seek self?obliteration, losing himself among far?away, tropic islands,
                        or the ice?bound regions of the uttermost South. He could stay here. Sit
                        quite still even—and that was well, for he was horribly tired and spent. He
                        need only wait. When the time was ripe, they would do all the rest—do it for
                        him by doing it to him.—How finely simple it all was! Incidentally he
                        wondered if it would hurt very much. Not that that mattered, for beyond lay
                        peace. Only he hoped they would get to work pretty soon, so that it might be
                        over before the end of the second act, when Powell, the valet, would come
                        back.
                    Richard’s face had grown very youthful and eager. His eyes were unnaturally
                        bright. And still he gazed down at that great company. His heart went out to
                        it. He loved it, loved each and every member of it, as he had never
                        conceived of loving heretofore. He would like to have gone down among them
                        and become part of them, one with them in purpose, a partaker of their
                        corporate strength. But that was forbidden. They were his preordained
                        executioners. Yet in that capacity they were not the less, but the more,
                        loveable. They were welcome to exact full justice. He longed after them,
                        longed after the pain it was their mission to inflict.—And they were getting
                        ready, surely they were getting ready! There was a sensible movement among
                        them. They turned pale faces away from the
                        brilliantly lighted stage, and towards the great horseshoe of waxen cells
                        enclosing them. They were busy, dull?coloured insects again, and they
                        buzzed—resentfully, angrily, they buzzed.
                    Yet even while Dickie noted all this, greatly moved by it, appreciating its
                        inner meaning, its profound relation to himself and the drama of his own
                        existence, he was not wholly unmindful of the progress of the opera and the
                        charm of the graceful and fluent music which saluted his ears. He was aware
                        of the entrance of the hero, of his greeting by his motley?clad followers.
                        He felt kindly, just off the surface of his emotion so to speak, towards
                        this impersonator of Ernani. The young actor’s appearance was attractive,
                        his voice fresh and sympathetic, his bearing modest. But the aristocratic
                        occupants of the boxes treated him cavalierly. The famous Milanese tenor,
                        whose name was on the programme, having failed to arrive, this local, and
                        comparatively inexperienced, artist had been called upon to fill his part.
                        Therefore the smart world talked more loudly than before, while the
                        democratic occupants of the parterre,
                        jealous for the reputation of their fellow?citizen, broke forth into stormy
                        protest. And Richard could have found it in his heart to protest also. For
                        it was a waste of energy, this senseless conflict! It was unworthy of the
                        dignity of that dull?coloured multitude, on whom his hopes were so strangely
                        set—of the men in whose hands are the final rewards and punishments, by
                        whose voice the final judgment is pronounced. It pained him to see these
                        ministers of the Eternal Justice thus led away by trivial happenings, and
                        their attention distracted from the main issue. For what, in God’s name, did
                        he and his sentimental love?carollings amount to, this pretty fellow of a
                        player, this fictitious hero of the modern, Neapolitan, operatic stage?
                        Weighed in the balances, he and his whole occupation and calling were
                        lighter, surely, than vanity itself? Rightly considered, he and his singing
                        were but as a spangle, as some glittering trifle of tinsel, upon the veil
                        still hiding the awful, yet benign, countenance of that tremendous and so
                        surely approaching event.—Let him sing away, then, sing in peace. For the
                        sound of his singing might help to lighten the weariness of the hours until
                        the supreme hour should strike, and the glittering veil be torn asunder, and
                        the countenance it covered be at last and wholly revealed.
                    Reasoning thus, Richard raised his opera glasses and swept those many
                        superimposed ranges of waxen cells. And the aspect of them was to him very
                        sinister, for everywhere he seemed to encounter soft, voluptuous, brainless
                        faces, violences of hot colour, and costly
                        clothing cunningly devised to heighten the physical allurements of
                        womanhood. Everywhere, beside and behind these, he seemed to encounter the
                        faces of men, gluttonous of pleasure, hungering for those
                        generously?discovered, material charms. They were veritable ante?chambers of
                        vice, those angular?mouthed, waxen cells. And, therefore, very fittingly, as
                        he reflected, he had his place in one of them, since he was infected by the
                        vices, active partaker in the sensuality, of his class.—Oh! that the bees
                        would swarm—swarm, and make short work of it all, inflict fulness of
                        punishment, and thereby cleanse him and set him free! In its intensity his
                        longing came near taking the form of articulate prayer.
                    And then his thought shifted once more, attaching itself curiously,
                        speculatively, to individual objects. For his survey of the house had just
                        now brought a box into view situated on the grand tier, and almost
                        immediately opposite his own. It was occupied by a party of six persons.
                        With four of those persons Richard was aware he had nothing to do. But with
                        the remaining two persons—a woman fashioned, as it appeared, of ivory and
                        gold, and a young man standing almost directly behind her—he had much,
                        everything, in fact, to do. It was incomprehensible to him that he had not
                        observed these two persons sooner, since they were as necessary to the
                        accomplishment of that terrible, yet beneficent, approaching event as he
                        himself was. The woman he knew actually and intimately; though as yet he
                        could give her no name, nor recall in what his knowledge of her consisted.
                        The young man he knew inferentially. And Dickie was sensible of regarding
                        him with instinctive repulsion, since his appearance presented a living and
                        grossly ribald caricature of a figure august, worshipful, and holy. Long and
                        closely Richard studied those two persons, studied them, forgetful of all
                        else, straining his memory to place them. And all the while they talked.
                    But, at last, the woman fashioned of ivory and gold ceased talking. She
                        folded her arms upon the velvet cushion of the front of the box and gazed
                        right out into the theatre. There was a splendid arrogance in the pose of
                        her head, and in the droop of her eyelids. Then she looked up and across,
                        straight at Richard. He saw her drooping eye?lids raised, her eyes open
                        wide, and remain fixed as in amazement. A something alert, and very fierce,
                        came into her expression. She seemed to think carefully for a brief space.
                        She threw back her head, and he saw uncontrollable laughter convulse her
                        beautiful throat. And, at that same moment, a mighty outburst of applause
                        and of welcome shook the great theatre from floor to ceiling; and, as it
                            died away, the voice of the famous
                        soprano, rich and compelling as of old, swelled out, and made vibrant with
                        passionate sweetness the whole atmosphere. And Richard hailed that glorious
                        voice, not that in itself it moved him greatly, but because in it he
                        recognised the beginning of the end. It came as prelude to catastrophe which
                        was also salvation.—Very soon the bees would swarm now! He rallied his
                        patience. He had not much longer to wait.
                    Meanwhile he looked back at that box on the grand tier, striving to unriddle
                        the mystery of his knowledge of those two persons. He needed glasses no
                        longer. His sight had become preternaturally keen. Again the two were
                        talking—and about him, that was somehow evident. And, as they talked, he
                        beheld a being, exquisitely formed, perfect in every part, step forth from
                        between the lips of the woman fashioned of ivory and gold. It knelt upon one
                        knee. Over the heads of the vast, dull?coloured multitude of workers, those
                        witnesses of and participators in the execution of Eternal Justice, it gazed
                        at him, Richard Calmady, and at him alone. And its gaze enfolded and held
                        him like an embrace. It wooed him, extending its arms in invitation. It was
                        naked and unashamed. It was black—black as the reeking, liquid lanes between
                        the hulls of the many ships, over which the screaming gulls circled seeking
                        foul provender, down in Naples harbour.—And he knew the fair woman it came
                        forth from for Helen de Vallorbes, herself, in her crocus?yellow gown sewn
                        with seed pearls. And he knew it for the immortal soul of her. And he
                        perceived, moreover, as it smiled on and beckoned him with lascivious
                        gestures, that its hands and its lips were bloody, since it had broken the
                        hearts of living women and torn and devoured the honour of living men.
                    “Ernani, Ernani, involami”—still the air
                        was vibrant with that glorious voice. But the love of which it was the
                        exponent, the flight which it counselled, had ceased, to Richard’s hearing,
                        to bear relation to that which is earthly, concrete, and of the senses. The
                        passion and promise of it were alike turned to nobler and more permanent
                        uses, presaging the quick coming of expiation and of reconciliation
                        contained in that supreme event. For he knew that, in a little moment, Helen
                        must arise and follow the soul which had gone forth from her—the soul which,
                        in all its admirable perfection of outward form and blackness of intimate
                        lies and lust, was close to him—though he no longer actually beheld it—here,
                        beside him, laying subtle siege to him even yet. Where it went, there, of
                        necessity, she who owned it must shortly follow, since soul and body cannot
                        remain apart, save for the briefest space,
                        until death effect their final divorce. Therefore Helen would come speedily.
                        It could not be otherwise—so, at least, he argued. And her coming meant the
                        culmination. Then, time being fully ripe, the bees would swarm, swarm at
                        last,—labour revenging itself upon sloth, hunger upon gluttony, want upon
                        wealth, obscurity upon privilege,—justice being thus meted out, and he,
                        Richard, cleansed and delivered from the disgrace of deformity now so
                        hideously infecting both his spirit and his flesh.
                    Of this he was so well assured that, disregarding the felt, though unseen,
                        presence of that errant soul, disdaining to do battle with it, he leaned
                        forward once more, looking down into the close?packed arena of the great
                        theatre. All those brilliant figures, members of his own class, here
                        present, were matter of indifference to him. In this moment of conscious and
                        supreme farewell, it was to the dull?coloured multitude that he turned. They
                        still moved him to sympathy. Unconsciously they had enlightened him
                        concerning matters of infinite moment. At their hands he would receive
                        penance and absolution. Before they dealt more closely with him,—since that
                        dealing must involve suffering which might temporarily cloud his friendship
                        for them,—he wanted to bid them farewell and assure them of his conviction
                        of the righteousness of their corporate action. So, silently, he blessed
                        them, taking leave of them in peace. Then he found there were other
                        farewells to be said.—Farewell to earthly life as he had known it, the
                        struggle and very frequent anguish of it, its many frustrated purposes, fair
                        illusions, unfulfilled hopes. He must bid farewell, moreover, to art as he
                        had relished it—to learning, as he had all too intermittently pursued it—to
                        travel, as he had found solace in it—to the inexhaustible interest, the
                        inextinguishable humour and pathos, in brief, of things seen. And, reviewing
                        all this, a profound nostalgia of all those minor happinesses which are the
                        natural inheritance of the average man arose in him—happiness of healthy,
                        light?hearted activities, not only of the athlete and the fighting?man, but
                        of the playing?field, and the ball?room, and the river—happinesses to him
                        inevitably denied. With an almost boyish passion of longing, he cried out
                        for these.—Just for one day to have lived with the ease and freedom with
                        which the vast majority of men habitually live! Just for one day to have
                        been neither dwarf nor cripple; but to have taken his place and his chance
                        along with the rest, before it all was over and the tale told!
                    But very soon Richard put these thoughts from him, deeming it unworthy to
                        dwell upon them at this juncture. The call was to go forward, not to go back. So he settled
                        himself in his chair once more, pulling the velvet drapery forward so as to
                        shut out the sight of the house. Bitterness should have no part in him. When
                        that happened which was appointed to happen, it must find him not only
                        acquiescent but serene and undisturbed. He composed himself, therefore, with
                        a decent and even lofty pride. Then he turned his eyes upon the narrow door,
                        there in the semi?obscurity of the back of the box, and waited. And all the
                        while royally, triumphantly, Morabita sang.
                    During that period of waiting—whether in itself brief or prolonged, he knew
                        not—sensation and thought alike were curiously in abeyance. Richard neither
                        slept nor woke. He knew that he existed, but all active relation to being
                        had ceased. And it was with painful effort he in a measure returned to more
                        ordinary correspondence with fact, aroused by the sound of low?toned,
                        emphatic speech close at hand, and by a scratching as of some animal denied
                        and seeking admittance. Then he perceived that the door yielded, letting in
                        a spread of yellow brightness from the corridor. And in the midst of that
                        brightness, part and parcel of it thanks to the lustre of her crocus?yellow
                        dress, her honey?coloured hair, her fair skin and softly?gleaming ornaments,
                        stood Helen de Vallorbes. Behind her, momentarily, Richard caught sight of
                        the young man whose face had impressed him as a ribald travesty of that of
                        some being altogether worshipful and holy. The face peered at him with, as
                        it seemed, malicious curiosity over the rounded shoulder of the woman of
                        ivory and gold. The effect was very hateful, and, with a sense of
                        thankfulness, Richard saw Helen close the door and come, alone, down the two
                        steps leading from the back of the box. As she passed from the dimness into
                        the clearer light, he watched her, quiescent, yet with absorbing interest.
                        For he perceived that the hands of the clock had been put back somehow.
                        Intervening years and the many events of them had ceased to obtain, so that,
                        of all the many Helens, enchanting or evil, whom he had come to know, he saw
                        now only one, and that the first and earliest—a little dancer, with
                        blush?roses in her hat, dainty as a toy, finished to her rosy finger?tips
                        and the toes of her pretty shoes, merry and merciless, as she had pirouetted
                        round him mocking his shuffling, uncertain progress across the Chapel?Room
                        at Brockhurst fifteen years ago.
                    “Ah! so you have come back!” he exclaimed, almost involuntarily.
                    Madame de Vallorbes pushed a chair from the front of the box into the shadow
                        of the velvet draperies beside Richard.
                    
                    “It is unnecessary that all Naples should take part in our interview,” she
                        said. She sat down, turning to him, leaning a little towards him.
                    “You do not deserve that I should come back, you know, Dickie,” she
                        continued. “You both deserted and deceived me. That is hardly chivalrous,
                        hardly just indeed, after taking all a woman has to give. You led me to
                        suppose you had departed for good and all. Why should you deceive me?”
                    “The yacht was not ready for sea,” Richard said simply.
                    “Then you might, in common charity, have let me know that. You were bound to
                        give me an opportunity of speaking to you once again, I think.”
                    In his present state of detachment from all worldly concerns absolute
                        truthfulness compelled Richard. The event was so certain, the swarming of
                        the bees so very near, that small diplomacies, small evasions, seemed
                        absurdly out of place.
                    “I did not want to hear you speak,” he said.
                    “But doesn’t it strike you that was rather dastardly in face of what had
                        taken place between us? Do you know that you appear in a new and far from
                        becoming light?”
                    Denial seemed to Richard futile. He remained silent.
                    For a moment Helen looked towards the stage. When she spoke again it was as
                        with reluctance.
                    “I was desperately unhappy. I went all over the villa in the vain hope of
                        finding you. I went back to that room of yours in which we parted. I wanted
                        to see it again.”—She paused. Her speech was low?toned, soft as milk.—“It
                        was rather dreadful, Dickie, for the place was all in disarray, littered
                        with signs of your hasty departure, damp, cheerless—the rain beating against
                        the windows. And I hate rain. I found there, not you, whom I so sorely
                        wanted—but something very much else.—A letter to you from de
                        Vallorbes.”—Once more she paused. “I excuse you of anything worse than
                        negligence in omitting to destroy it. Misery knows no law, and I was
                        miserable. I read it.”
                    Richard had listened with the same detachment, yet the same absorbed
                        interest, with which he had watched her entrance. She was a wonderful
                        creature in her adroitness, in her handling of means to serve her own ends!
                        But he could not pay her back in her own coin. The time was too short for
                        anything but simple truth. He felt strangely tired. These reiterated delays
                        became harassing. If the bees would swarm, only swarm! Then it would be
                        over, and he could sleep. He clasped his hands behind his head and looked at
                        Madame de Vallorbes. Her soul kneeled on her lap, its delicate arms were clasped about her
                        neck—black against the lustrous white of her skin and all those twisted
                        ropes of seed pearls. It pressed its breasts against hers, amorously. It
                        loved her and she it. And he understood that in the whole scope of nature
                        there was but it alone, it only, that she ever had loved, or did, or could,
                        love. And, understanding this, he was filled with a great compassion for
                        her. And, answering her, his expression was gentle and pitiful. Still he
                        needs must speak the truth.
                    “Perhaps it was as well that you should read Luigi’s letter,” he said.
                    She turned upon him fiercely and scornfully, yet even as she did so her soul
                        fell to beckoning to him, soliciting him with evilly alluring gestures.
                    “My congratulations to you,” she exclaimed, “upon your praiseworthy candour!
                        I am to gather, then, that you believe that which my husband advises himself
                        to tell you? Under the circumstances it is exceedingly convenient to you to
                        do so no doubt.”
                    “How can I avoid believing it?” Richard asked, quite sweet?temperedly.
                        “Surely we need not waste the little time which remains in argument as to
                        that? You must admit, Helen, that Luigi’s letter fits in. It supplies just
                        the piece of the puzzle which was missing. It tallies with all the
                        rest.”
                    “All the rest?”
                    “Oh yes! It is part of the whole, precisely that part both of you and of
                        Naples which I knew, and tried so hard not to know, from the first. But it
                        is worse than useless to practise such refusals. The Whole, and nothing less
                        than the Whole, is bound to get one in the end. It is contrary to the nature
                        of things that any integral portion of the whole should submit to permanent
                        denial.”—Richard’s voice deepened. He spoke with a subdued enthusiasm,
                        thinking of the dull?coloured multitude there in the arena and the act of
                        retributive justice on the eve, by them, of accomplishment.—“It seems to me
                        the radical weakness of all human institutions, of all systems of thought,
                        resides in exactly that effort to select and reject, to exalt one part as
                        against another part, and so build not upon the rock of unity and
                        completeness, but upon the sand of partiality and division. And sooner or
                        later the Whole revenges itself, and the fine fanciful fabric crumbles to
                        ruin, just for lack of that which in our short?sighted over?niceness we have
                        taken such mighty great pains to miss out! This has happened times out of
                        number in respect of religions, and philosophies, and the constitution of
                        kingdoms, and in that of fair romances which promised to stand firm to all eternity. And now, now, in these last
                        few days,—since laws which rule the general, also rule the individual
                        life,—it has happened in respect of you, Helen, to my seeing, and in respect
                        of Naples.”—Richard smiled upon her sadly and very sweetly.—“I am sorry,” he
                        said, “yes, indeed, horribly sorry. It is a bitter thing to see the last of
                        one’s gods go overboard. But there is no remedy. Sorry or not, so it
                        is.”
                    Madame de Vallorbes looked at him keenly. Her attitude was strained. Her face
                        sombre with thought.
                    “My God! my God!” she exclaimed, “that I should sit and listen to all this!
                        And yet you were never more attractive. There is an unnatural force,
                        unnatural beauty about you. You are ill, Richard. You look and you speak as
                        a man might who was about to join hands with death.”
                    But Dickie’s attention had wandered again. He pulled the velvet drapery aside
                        somewhat, and gazed down into the crowded house. They lingered strangely in
                        the performance of their mission, that dull?coloured multitude of
                        workers!—Just then came another mighty outburst of applause, cries, vivas, the famous soprano’s name called aloud.
                        The sound was stimulating, as the shout of a victorious army. Richard hailed
                        it as sign of speedy deliverance, and sank back into his place.
                    “Oh yes!” he said civilly and lightly, “I fancy I am pretty bad. I am a bit
                        sick of this continued delay, you see. I suppose they know their own
                        business best, but they do seem most infernally slow in getting under weigh.
                        I was ready hours ago. However, they must be nearly through with
                        preliminaries now. And when once we’re fairly into it, I shall be all
                        right.”
                    “You mean when the yacht sails?” Madame de Vallorbes asked. Still she looked
                        at him intently. He turned to her smiling, and she observed that his eyes
                        had ceased to be as windows opening back onto empty space. They were
                        luminous with a certain gay content.
                    “Yes, of course—when the yacht sails, if you like to put it that way,” he
                        answered.
                    “And when will that be?”
                    The shout of the arena grew louder in the recall. It surged up to the roof
                        and quivered along the lath and plaster partitions of the boxes.
                    “Very soon now. Immediately, I think, please God,” he said.—But why should
                        she make him speak thus foolishly in riddles? Of a surety she must read the
                        signs of the approach of that momentous and beneficent event as clearly as
                        he himself! Was she not equally with himself involved in it? Was she not, like himself, to be cleansed and set free
                        by it? Therefore it came as a painful bewilderment and shock to him when she
                        drew closer to him, leaned forward, laid her hand lightly upon his
                        thigh.
                    “Richard,” she said, very softly, “I forgive all. I am not satisfied with
                        loving. I will come with you. I will stay with you. I will be faithful to
                        you—yes, yes, even that. Your loving is unlike any other. It is unique, as
                        you yourself are unique. I—I want more of it.”
                    “But you must know that it is too late to go back on that now,” he said,
                        reasoning with her, greatly perplexed and distressed by her determined
                        ignoring of—to him—self?evident fact. “All that side of things for us is
                        over and done with.”
                    Her lips parted in naughty laughter. And then, not without a shrinking of
                        quick horror, Richard beheld the soul of her—that being of lovely
                        proportions, exquisitely formed in every part, yet black as the foul, liquid
                        lanes between the hulls of the many ships down in Naples harbour—step
                        delicately in between those parted lips, returning whence it came. And,
                        beholding this, instinctively he raised her hand from where it rested upon
                        his thigh, and put it from him, put it upon her glistering, crocus?yellow
                        lap where her soul had so lately kneeled.
                    “Let us say no more, Helen,” he entreated, “lest we both forfeit our
                        remaining chance, and become involved in hopeless and final
                        condemnation.”
                    But Madame de Vallorbes’ anger rose to overwhelming height. She slapped her
                        hands together.
                    “Ah, you despise me!” she cried. “But let me assure you that in any case this
                        assumption of virtue becomes you singularly ill. It really is a little bit
                        too cheap, a work of supererogation in the matter of hypocrisy, Have the
                        courage of your vices. Be honest. You can be so to the point of insult when
                        it serves your purpose. Own that you are capricious, own that you have
                        lighted upon some woman who provokes your appetite more than I do! I have
                        been too tender of you, too lenient with you. I have loved too much and been
                        weakly desirous to please. Own that you are tired of me, that you no longer
                        care for me!”
                    And he answered, sadly enough:—
                    “Yes, that last is true. Having seen the Whole, that has happened which I
                        always dreaded might happen. The last of my self?made gods has indeed gone
                        overboard. I care for you no longer.”
                    Helen sprang up from her chair, ran to the door, flung it open. The first act
                        of the opera was concluded. The curtain had come down. The house below and around, the corridor
                        without, were full of confused noise and movement.
                    “Paul, M. Destournelle, come here,” she cried, “and at once!”
                    But Richard was more than ever tired. The strain of waiting had been too
                        prolonged. Lights, draperies, figures, the crowded arena, the vast honeycomb
                        of boxes, tier above tier, swam before his eyes, blurred, indistinct, vague,
                        shifting, colossal in height, giddy in depth. The bees were swarming, at
                        last, swarming upward through seas of iridescent mist. But he had no longer
                        empire over his own attitude and thoughts. He had hoped to meet the supreme
                        moment in full consciousness, with clear vision and thankfulness of heart.
                        But he was too tired to do so, tired in brain and body alike. And so it
                        happened that a dogged endurance grew on him, simply a setting of the teeth
                        and bracing of himself to suffer silently, even stupidly, all that might be
                        in store. For the bees were close upon him now, countless in number, angry,
                        grudging, violent. But they no longer appeared as insects. They were human,
                        save for their velvet?like, expressionless eyes. And all those eyes were
                        fixed upon him, and him alone. He was the centre towards which, in thought
                        and action, all turned. Nor were the dull?coloured occupants of the parterre alone in their attack. For those
                        gay?coloured larvæ—the men and women of his own class—indolent, licentious,
                        full?fed, hung out of the angular mouths of the waxen cells, above the
                        crimson and gold of the cushions, pointing at him, claiming and yet
                        denouncing him. And in the attitude of these—the democratic and the
                        aristocratic sections—he detected a difference. The former swarmed to
                        inflict punishment for his selfishness, uselessness, sensuality. But the
                        latter jeered and mocked at his bodily infirmity, deriding his deformity,
                        making merry over his shortened limbs and shuffling walk. And against this
                        background, against this all?enclosing tapestry of faces which encircled
                        him, two persons, and the atmosphere and aroma of them, so to speak, were
                        clearly defined. They were close to him, here within the narrow limits of
                        the opera box. Then a great humiliation overtook Richard, perceiving that
                        they, and not the people, the workers, august in their corporate power and
                        strength, were to be his executioners. No—no—he wasn’t worth that! And, for
                        all his present dulness of sensation, a sob rose in his throat. Madame de
                        Vallorbes, resplendent in crocus?yellow brocade, costly lace, and seed
                        pearls, the young man, her companion—the young man of the light, forked
                        beard, domed skull, vain eyes and peevish mouth—the young man of holy and
                        dissolute aspect— were good enough
                        instruments for the Eternal Justice to employ in respect of him, Richard
                        Calmady.
                    “Look, M. Destournelle,” Helen said very quietly, “this is my cousin of whom
                        I have already spoken to you. But I wished to spare him if possible, and
                        give him room for self?justification, so I did not tell you all. Richard,
                        this is my friend, M. Destournelle, to whom my honour and happiness are not
                        wholly indifferent.”
                    Dickie looked up. He did not speak. Vaguely he prayed it might all soon be
                        over. Paul Destournelle looked down. He raised his eye?glass and bowed
                        himself, examining Richard’s mutilated legs and strangely?shod feet. He
                        broke into a little, bleating, goat?like laugh.
                    “Mais c’est etonnant!” he observed
                        reflectively.
                    “I was in his house,” Helen continued. “I was there unprotected, having
                        absolute faith in his loyalty.”—She paused a moment. “He seduced me.
                        Richard, can you deny that?”
                    “Canaille!” M. Destournelle murmured. He
                        drew a pair of gloves through his hands, holding them by the finger?tips.
                        The metal buttons of them were large, three on each wrist. Those gloves
                        arrested Richard’s attention oddly.
                    “I do not deny it,” Dickie said. “And having thus outraged, he deserted me.
                        Do you deny that?”
                    “No,” Dickie said again. For it was true, that which she asserted, true,
                        though penetrated by subtle falsehood impossible, as it seemed to him, to
                        combat.—“No, I do not deny it.”
                    “You hear!” Helen exclaimed. “Now do what you think fit.”
                    Still Destournelle drew the gloves through his hands, holding them by the
                        finger?tips.
                    “Under other circumstances I might feel myself compelled to do you the honour
                        of sending you a challenge, monsieur,” he
                        said. “But a man of sensibility like myself cannot do such violence to his
                        moral and artistic code as to fight with an outcast of nature, an abortion,
                        such as yourself. The sword and the pistol I necessarily reserve for my
                        equals. The deformed person, the cripple, whose very existence is an offence
                        to the eye and to every delicacy of sense, must be condescended to, and, if
                        chastised at all, must be chastised without ceremony, chastised as one would
                        chastise a dog.”
                    And with that he struck Richard again and again across the face with those
                        metal?buttoned gloves.
                    Mad with rage, blinded and sick with pain, Dickie essayed to fling himself
                        upon his assailant. But Destournelle was too adroit for him. He skipped aside, with his little, bleating, goat?like
                        laugh; and Richard fell heavily, full length, his forehead coming in contact
                        with the lower step of the descent from the back of the box. He lay there,
                        too weak to raise himself.
                    Paul Destournelle bent down and again examined him curiously.
                    “C’est etonnant!” he repeated.—He gave the
                        prostrate body a contemptuous kick. “Dear madame, are you sufficiently
                        avenged? Is it enough?” he inquired sneeringly.
                    And vaguely, as from some incalculable distance, Richard heard Helen de
                        Vallorbes’ voice:—“Yes—it is a little affair of honour which dates from my
                        childhood. It has taken many years in adjusting. I thank you, mon cher, a thousand times. Now let us go
                        quickly. It is enough.”
                    Then came darkness, silence, rest.
                
            
            
            
                BOOK VI
                THE NEW HEAVEN AND THE NEW EARTH
                
                    CHAPTER I
                    IN WHICH MISS ST. QUENTIN BEARS WITNESS TO THE FAITH THAT IS IN
                        HER
                    HONORIA divested herself of her travelling?cap, thrust her hands
                        into the pockets of her frieze ulster, and thus, bare?headed, a tall,
                        supple, solitary figure, paced the railway platform in the dusk. Above the
                        gentle undulations of the western horizon splendours of rose?crimson sunset
                        were outspread, veiled, as they flamed upward, by indigo cloud of the
                        texture and tenuity of finest gauze. And those same rose?crimson splendours
                        found repetition upon the narrow, polished surface of the many lines of
                        rails, causing them to stand out, as though of red?hot metal, from the
                        undeterminate grey?drab of the track where it curved away, south?eastward,
                        across the darkening country towards the Savoy Alps. And from out the
                        fastnesses of these last, quick with the bleak purity of snow, came a
                        breathing of evening wind. To Honoria it brought refreshing emphasis of
                        silence, and of immunity from things human and things mechanical. It spoke
                        to her of virgin and unvisited spaces, ignorant of mankind and of obligation
                        to his so many and so insistent needs. And there being in Honoria herself a
                        kindred defiance of subjection, a determination, so to speak, of physical
                        and emotional chastity, she welcomed these intimations of the essential
                        inviolability of nature, finding in them justification and support of her
                        own mental attitude—of the entire wisdom of which she had, it must be owned,
                        grown slightly suspicious of late.
                    
                    And this was the more grateful to her, not only as contrast to the noise and
                        dust of a lengthy and hurriedly?undertaken journey; but because that same
                        journey had been suddenly, and, in a sense violently, imposed upon one whom
                        she held in highest regard, by another whom she had long since agreed with
                        herself to hold in no sort of regard at all. Since the highly?regarded one
                        set forth, she—Honoria—of course, set forth likewise. And yet, in good
                        truth, the whole affair rubbed her not a little the wrong way! She
                        recognised in it a particularly flagrant example of masculine aggression.
                        Some persons, as she reflected, are permitted an amount of elbow?room
                        altogether disproportionate to their deserts. Be sufficiently selfish,
                        sufficiently odious, and everybody becomes your humble servant, hat in hand!
                        That is unfair. It is, indeed, quite extensively exasperating to the
                        dispassionate onlooker. And, in Miss St. Quentin’s case, exasperation was by
                        no means lessened by the fact that candour compelled her to admit doubt not
                        only as to the actuality of her own dispassionateness, but, as has already
                        been stated, as to the wisdom of her mental attitude generally. She wanted
                        to think and feel one way. She was more than half afraid she was much
                        disposed to think and feel quite another way. This was worrying. And,
                        therefore, it came about that Honoria hailed the present interval of silence
                        and solitude, striving to put from her remembrance both the origin and
                        object of her journey, while filling her lungs with the snow?fed purity of
                        the mountain wind and yielding her spirit to the somewhat serious influences
                        of surrounding nature. All too soon the great Paris?express would thunder
                        into the station. The heavy, horse?box?like sleeping?car—now standing on the
                        Culoz?Geneva?Bâle siding—would be coupled to the rear of it. Then the roar
                        and rush would begin again—from dark to dawn, and on through the long,
                        bright hours to dark once more, by mountain gorge, and stifling tunnel, and
                        broken woodland, and smiling coast?line, and fertile plain, past Chambéry,
                        and Turin, and Bologna, and mighty Rome herself, until the journey was ended
                        and distant Naples reached at last.
                    But Miss St. Quentin’s communings with nature were destined to speedy
                        interruption. Ludovic Quayle’s elongated person, clothed to the heels in a
                        check travelling?coat, detached itself from the company of waiting
                        passengers, and blue?linen?clad porters, upon the central platform before
                        the main block of station buildings, and made its light and active way
                        across the intervening lines of crimson?stained metals.
                    “If I am a nuisance mention that chastening fact without hesitation,” he
                        said, standing on the railway track and looking up at her with his air of very urbane
                        intelligence. “Present circumstances permit us the privilege—or otherwise—of
                        laying aside restraints of speech, along with other small proprieties of
                        behaviour commonly observed by the polite. So don’t spare my feelings, dear
                        Miss St. Quentin. If I am a bore, tell me so; and I will return, and that
                        without any lurking venom in my breast, whence I came.”
                    “Do anything you please,” Honoria replied, “except be run over by the Paris
                        train.”
                    “The Paris train, so I have just learned, is an hour late, consequently its
                        arrival hardly enters into the question. But, since you are graciously
                        pleased to bid me do as I like, I stay,” Mr. Quayle returned, stepping on to
                        the platform and turning to pace beside her.—“What a gaol delivery it is to
                        get into the open! That last engine of ours threw ashes to a truly
                        penitential extent. My mouth and throat still claim unpleasantly close
                        relation to a neglected, kitchen grate. And if our much vaunted wagon?lits is the last word of civilisation in
                        connection with travel, then all I can say is that, in my humble opinion,
                        civilisation has yet a most exceedingly long way to go. It really is a
                        miraculously uncomfortable vehicle. And how Lady Calmady contrives to endure
                        its eccentricities of climate and of motion, I’m sure I don’t know.”
                    “In her case the end would make any sort of means supportable,” Honoria
                        answered.
                    Her pacings had brought her to the extreme end of the platform where it
                        sloped to the level of the track. She stood there a moment, her head thrown
                        back, snuffing the wind as a hind, breaking covert, stands and snuffs it. A
                        spirit of questioning possessed her, though not—as in the hind’s case—of
                        things concrete and material. It is true she could have dispensed with Mr.
                        Quayle’s society. She did not want him. But he had shown himself so full of
                        resource, so considerate and helpful, ever since the news of Sir Richard
                        Calmady’s desperate state had broken up the peace of the little party at
                        Ormiston Castle, now five days ago, that she forgave him even his
                        preciousness of speech, even his slightly irritating superiority of manner.
                        She had ceased to be on her guard with him during these days of travel, had
                        come to take his presence for granted and to treat him with the comfortable
                        indifference of honest good?fellowship. So, it happened that now, speaking
                        with him, she continued to follow out her existing train of thought.
                    “I’m by no means off my head about poor Dickie Calmady,” she said
                        presently,—“specially where Cousin Katherine is con? cerned. I couldn’t go on caring about anybody,
                        irrespective of their conduct, just because they were they. And yet I can’t
                        help seeing it must be tremendously satisfying to feel like that.”
                    “A thousand pardons,” Ludovic murmured, “but like what?”
                    “Why as Cousin Katherine feels—just whole?heartedly, without analysis, and
                        without alloy—to feel that no distance, no fatigue, no nothing in short,
                        matters, so long as she gets to him in time. I don’t approve of such a state
                        of mind, and yet”—Honoria wheeled round, facing the glory of colour dyeing
                        all the west—“and yet, I’m untrue enough to my own principles rather to envy
                        it.”
                    She sighed, and that sigh her companion noted and filed for reference.
                        Indeed, an unusually expansive cheerfulness became perceptible in Mr.
                        Quayle.
                    “By?the?bye, is there any further news?” she inquired.
                    “General Ormiston has just had a telegram.”
                    “Anything fresh?”
                    “Still unconscious, strength fairly maintained.”
                    “Oh! we know that by heart!” Honoria said.
                    “We do. And we know the consequences of it—the sweet little see?saw of hope
                        and fear, productive of unlimited discussion and anxiety. No weak letting
                        one stand at ease about that telegram! It keeps one’s nose hard down on the
                        grindstone.”
                    “If he dies,” Honoria said slowly, “if he dies—poor, dear Cousin
                        Katherine!—When can we hear again?”
                    “At Turin,” Mr. Quayle replied.
                    Then they both fell silent until the far end of the platform was reached. And
                        there, once more, Honoria paused, her small head carried high, her serious
                        eyes fixed upon the sunset. The rosy light falling upon her failed to
                        disguise the paleness of her face or its slight angularity of line. She was
                        a little worn and travel?stained, a little dishevelled even. Yet to her
                        companion she had rarely appeared more charming. She might be tired, she
                        might even be somewhat untidy; but her innate distinction remained—nay,
                        gained, so he judged, by suggestion of rough usage endured. Her absolute
                        absence of affectation, her unselfconsciousness, her indifference to
                        adventitious prettinesses of toilet, her transparent sincerity, were very
                        entirely approved by Ludovic Quayle.
                    “Yes, that see?saw of hope and fear must be an awful ordeal, feeling as she
                        does,” Miss St. Quentin said presently. “And yet, even so, I am uncertain. I
                        can’t help wondering which really is best!”
                    
                    “Again a thousand pardons,” the young man put in, “but I venture to remind
                        you that I was not cradled in the fore?court of the temple of the Pythian
                        Apollo, but only in the nursery of a conspicuously philistine, English
                        country?house.”
                    For the first time during their conversation Honoria looked full at him. Her
                        glance was very friendly, yet it remained meditative, even a trifle sad.
                    “Oh! I know, I’m fearfully inconsequent,” she said. “But my head is simply
                        rattled to pieces by that beastly wagon?lits. I had gone back to what I was thinking about
                        before you joined me, and to what we were saying just now about Cousin
                        Katherine.”
                    “Yes—yes, exactly,” Ludovic put in tentatively. She was going to give herself
                        away—he was sure of it. And such giving away might make for opportunity. In
                        spirit, the young man proceeded to take his shoes from off his feet. The
                        ground on which he stood might prove to be holy. Moreover Miss St. Quentin’s
                        direct acts of self?revelation were few and far between. He was horribly
                        afraid those same shoes of his might creak, so to speak, thereby startling
                        her into watchfulness, making her draw back. But Honoria did not draw back.
                        She was too much absorbed by her own thought. She continued to contemplate
                        the glory of the flaming west, her expression touched by a grave and noble
                        exaltation.
                    “I suppose one can’t help worrying a little at times—it’s laid hold of me
                        very much during the last month or two—as to what is really the finest way
                        to take life. One wants to arrive at that fairly early; not by a process of
                        involuntary elimination, on the burnt?child?fears?the?fire sort of
                        principle, when the show’s more than half over, as so many people do. One
                        wants to get hold of the stick by the right end now, while one’s still
                        comparatively young, and then work straight along. I want my reason to be
                        the backbone of my action, don’t you know, instead of merely the push of
                        society and friendship, and superficial odds and ends of so?called
                        obligation to other people.”
                    “Yes,” Mr. Quayle put in again.
                    “Now, it seems to me, that”—Honoria extended one hand towards the sunset—“is
                        Cousin Katherine’s outlook on life and humanity, full of colour, full of
                        warmth. It burns with a certain prodigality of beauty, a superb absence of
                        economy in giving. And that”—with a little shrug of her shoulders she turned
                        towards the severe, and sombre, eastern landscape—“that, it strikes me,
                        comes a good deal nearer my own. Which is best?”
                    Mr. Quayle congratulated himself upon the removal of his shoes. The ground was holy—holy to the point of
                        embarrassment even to so unabashable and ready?tongued a gentleman as
                        himself. He answered with an unusual degree of diffidence.
                    “An intermediate position is neither wholly inconceivable nor’ wholly
                        untenable, perhaps.”
                    “And you occupy it? Yes, you are very neatly balanced. But then, do you
                        really get anywhere?”
                    “Is not that a rather knavish speech, dear Miss St. Quentin?” the young man
                        inquired mildly.
                    “I don’t know,” she answered, “I wish to goodness I did.”
                    Now was here god?given opportunity, or merely a cunningly devised snare for
                        the taking of the unwary? Ludovic pondered the matter. He gently kicked a
                        little pebble from the dingy grey?drab of the asphalt on to the permanent
                        way. It struck one of the metals with a sharp click. A blue?linen?clad
                        porter, short of stature and heavy of build, lighted the gas lamps along the
                        platform. The flame of these wavered at first, and flickered, showing thin
                        and will?o’?the?wisp?like against the great outspread of darkening country
                        across which the wind came with a certain effect of harshness and
                        barrenness—the inevitable concomitant of its inherent purity. And the said
                        wind treated Miss St. Quentin somewhat discourteously, buffeting her,
                        obliging her to put up both hands to push back stray locks of hair. Also the
                        keen breath of it pierced her, making her shiver a little. Both of which
                        things her companion noting took heart of grace.
                    “Is it permitted to renew a certain petition?” he asked, in a low voice.
                    Honoria shook her head.
                    “’ Better not, I think,” she said.
                    “And yet, dear Miss St. Quentin, pulverised though I am by the weight of my
                        own unworthiness, I protest that petition is not wholly foreign to the
                        question you did me the honour to ask me just now.”
                    “Oh! dear me! You always contrive to bring it round to that!” she exclaimed,
                        not without a hint of petulance.
                    “Far from it,” the young man returned. “For a good, solid eighteen months,
                        now, I have displayed the accumulated patience of innumerable asses.”
                    “Of course, I see what you’re driving at,” she continued hastily. “But it is
                        not original. It’s just every man’s stock argument.”
                    “If it bears the hall?mark of hoary antiquity, so much the better. I
                        entertain a reverence for precedent. And honestly, as common sense goes, I
                        am not ashamed of that of my sex.”
                    
                    Miss St. Quentin resumed her walk.
                    “You really think it stands in one’s way,” she said reflectively, “you really
                        think it a disadvantage, to be a woman?”
                    “Oh! good Lord!” Mr. Quayle ejaculated, softly yet with an air so humorously
                        aghast that it could leave no doubt as to the nature of his sentiments. Then
                        he cursed himself for a fool. His shoes indeed had made a mighty creaking!
                        He expected an explosion of scornful wrath. He admitted he deserved it. It
                        did not come.
                    Miss St. Quentin looked at him, for a moment, almost piteously. He fancied
                        her mouth quivered and that her eyes filled with tears. Then she turned and
                        swung away with her long, easy, even stride. Mentally the young man took
                        himself by the throat, conscience?stricken at having humiliated her, at
                        having caused her to fall, even momentarily, from the height of her serene,
                        maidenly dignity. For once he became absolutely uncritical, careless of
                        appearances. He fairly ran after her along the platform.
                    “Dear Miss St. Quentin,” he called to her, in tones of most persuasive
                        apology.
                    But Honoria’s moment of piteousness was past. She had recovered all her
                        habitual lazy and gallant grace when he came up with her.
                    “No—no,” she said. “Hear me. I began this rather foolish conversation. I laid
                        myself open to—well to a snubbing. I got one, anyhow!”
                    “In mercy don’t rub it in!” Mr. Quayle murmured contritely.
                    “But I did,” Honoria returned. “Now it’s over and I’m going to pick up the
                        pieces and put them back in their places?just where they were before.”
                    “But I protest!—I hailed a new combination. I discover in myself no wild
                        anxiety to have the pieces put back just where they were before.”
                    “Oh yes, you do!” Honoria declared. “At least, you certainly will when I
                        explain it to you.”—She paused.—“You see,” she said, “it is like this.
                        Living with and watching Cousin Katherine, I have come to know all that side
                        of things at its very finest.”
                    “Forgive me.—It? What? May I recall to you the fact of the philistine
                        nursery?”
                    The young lady’s delicate face straightened.
                    “You know perfectly well what I mean,” she said.—“ That which we all think
                        about so constantly, and yet affect to speak of as a joke or a slight impropriety—love, marriage, motherhood.”
                    “Yes, Lady Calmady is a past?master in those arts,” Mr. Quayle replied.—Again
                        the ground was holy. He was conscious his pulse quickened.
                    “The beauty of it all, as one sees it in her case, breaks one up a little.
                        There is no laugh left in one about those things. One sees that to her they
                        are of the nature of religion—a religion pure and undefiled, a new way of
                        knowing God and of bringing oneself into line with the truth as it is in
                        Him. But, having once seen that, one can decline upon no lower level. One
                        grows ambitious. One will have it that way or not at all.”
                    Honoria paused again. The bleak wind buffeted her. But she was no longer
                        troubled or chilled by it, rather did it brace her to greater fearlessness
                        of resolve and of speech.
                    “You are contemptuous of women,” she said.
                    “I have betrayed characteristics of the ass, other than its patience,”
                        Ludovic lamented.
                    “Oh! I didn’t mean that,” Honoria returned, smiling in friendliest fashion
                        upon him. “Every man worth the name really feels as you do, I imagine. I
                        don’t blame you. Possibly I am growing a trifle shaky as to feminine
                        superiority, and woman spelled with a capital letter, myself. I’m awfully
                        afraid she is safest—for herself and others—under slight restraint, in a
                        state of mild subjection. She’s not quite to be trusted, either
                        intellectually or emotionally—at least, the majority of her isn’t. If she
                        got her head, I’ve a dreadful suspicion she would make a worse hash of
                        creation generally than you men have made of it already, and that”—Honoria’s
                        eyes narrowed, her upper lip shortened, and her smile shone out again
                        delightfully—“that’s saying a very great deal, you know.”
                    “My spirits rise to giddy heights,” Mr. Quayle exclaimed. “I endorse those
                        sentiments. But whence, oh, dear lady, this change of front?”
                    “Wait a minute. We’ve not got to the end of my contention yet.”
                    “The Paris train is late. There is time. And this is all excellent
                        hearing.”
                    “I’m not quite so sure of that,” Honoria said. “For, you see, just in
                        proportion as I give up the fiction of her superiority, and admit that woman
                        already has her political, domestic, and social deserts, I feel a chivalry
                        towards her, poor, dear thing, which I never felt before. I even feel a
                        chivalry towards the woman in myself. She claims my pity and my care in a
                        quite new way.”
                    
                    “So much the better,” Mr. Quayle observed, outwardly discreetly urbane,
                        inwardly almost riotously jubilant.
                    “Ah! wait a minute,” she repeated. Her tone changed, sobered. “I don’t want
                        to spread myself, but you know I can meet men pretty well on their own
                        ground. I could shoot and fish as well as most of you, only that I don’t
                        think it right to take life except to provide food, or in self?defence.
                        There’s not so much happiness going that one’s justified in cutting any of
                        it short. Even a jack?snipe may have his little affairs of the heart, and a
                        cock?salmon his gamble. But I can ride as straight as you can. I can break
                        any horse to harness you choose to put me behind. I can sail a boat and
                        handle an axe. I can turn my hand to most practical things—except a needle.
                        I own I always have hated a needle worse—well, worse than the devil! And I
                        can organise, and can speak fairly well, and manage business affairs tidily.
                        And have I not even been known—low be it spoken—to beat you at lawn tennis,
                        and Lord Shotover at billiards?”
                    “And to overthrow my most Socratic father in argument. And outwit my sister
                        Louisa in diplomacy—vide our poor, dear
                        Dickie Calmady’s broken engagement, and the excellent, scatterbrain Decies’
                        marriage.”
                    “But Lady Constance is happy?” Honoria put in hastily.
                    “Blissful, positively blissful, and with twins too! Think of it!—Decies is
                        blissful also. His sense of humour has deteriorated since his marriage, from
                        constant association with good, little Connie who was never distinguished
                        for ready perception of a joke. He regards those small, simultaneous
                        replicas of himself with unqualified complacency, which shows his
                        appreciation of comedy must be a bit blunted.”
                    “I wonder if it does?” Miss St. Quentin observed reflectively. Whereat Mr.
                        Quayle permitted. himself a sound as nearly approaching a chuckle as was
                        possible to so superior a person.
                    “A thousand pardons,” he murmured, “but really, dear lady, you are so very
                        much off on the other tack.”
                    “Am I?” Miss St. Quentin said. “Well, you see—to go back to my
                        demonstration—I’ve none of the quarrel with your side of things most women
                        have, because I’m not shut out from it, and so I don’t envy you. I can amuse
                        and interest myself on your lines. And therefore I can afford to be very
                        considerate and tender of the woman in me. I grow more and more resolved
                        that she shall have the very finest going, or that she shall have nothing,
                        in respect of all which belongs to her special province—in regard to love
                        and marriage. In them she shall have what
                        Cousin Katherine has had, and find what Cousin Katherine has found, or all
                        that shall be a shut book to her forever. Even if discipline and denial make
                        her a little unhappy, poor thing, that’s far better than letting her decline
                        upon the second best.”
                    Honoria’s voice was full and sweet. She spoke from out the deep places of her
                        thought. Her whole aspect was instinct with a calm and reasoned enthusiasm.
                        And, looking upon her, it became Ludovic Quayle’s turn to find the evening
                        wind somewhat bleak and barren. It struck chill, and he turned away and
                        moved westwards towards the sunset. But the rose?crimson splendours had
                        become faint and frail; while the indigo cloud had gathered into long,
                        horizontal lines as of dusky smoke, so that the remaining brightness was
                        seen as through prison bars. A sadness, indeed, seemed to hold the west,
                        even greater than that which held the east, since it was a sadness not of
                        beauty unborn, but of beauty dead. And this struck home to the young man. He
                        did not care to speak. Miss St. Quentin walked beside him in silence, for a
                        time. When at last she spoke it was very gently.
                    “Please don’t be angry with me,” she pleaded. “I like you so much that—that
                        I’d give a great deal to be able to think less of my duty to the tiresome
                        woman in me.”
                    “I would give a great deal too,” he declared, regardless of grammar.
                    “But I’m not the only woman in the world, dear Mr. Quayle,” she protested
                        presently.
                    “But I, unfortunately, have no use for any other,” he returned.
                    “Ah, you distress me!” Honoria cried.
                    “Well, I don’t know that you make me superabundantly cheerful.”
                    Just then the far?away shriek of a locomotive and dull thunder of an
                        approaching train. Mr. Quayle looked once more towards the western
                        horizon.
                    “Here’s the Paris?express!” he said. “We must be off if we mean to get round
                        before our horse?box is shunted.”
                    He jumped down on to the permanent way. Miss St. Quentin followed him, and
                        the two ran helter?skelter across the many lines of metals, in the direction
                        of the Culoz?Geneva?Bâle siding. That somewhat childish and undignified
                        proceeding ministered to the restoration of good?fellowship.
                    “Great passions are rare,” Mr. Quayle said, laughing a little. His
                        circulation was agreeably quickened. How surprisingly fast this nymph?like creature could get over the
                        ground, and that gracefully, moreover, rather in the style of a lissome,
                        long?limbed youth than in that of a woman!
                    “Rare? I know it,” she answered, the words coming short and sharply. “But I
                        accept the risk. A thousand to one the book remains shut forever.”
                    “And I, meanwhile, am not too proud to pass the time of day with the second
                        best, and take refuge in the accumulated patience of innumerable asses.”
                    And, behind them, the express train thundered into the station.
                
                
                    CHAPTER II
                    TELLING HOW, ONCE AGAIN, KATHERINE CALMADY LOOKED ON HER
                        SON
                    THE bulletin received at Turin was sufficiently disquieting. Richard
                        had had a relapse. And when at Bologna, just as the train was starting,
                        General Ormiston entered the compartment occupied by the two ladies, there
                        was that in his manner which made Miss St. Quentin lay aside the magazine
                        she was reading and, rising silently from her place opposite Lady Calmady,
                        go out on to the narrow passage?way of the long sleeping?car. She was very
                        close to the elder woman in the bonds of a dear and intimate friendship, yet
                        hardly close enough, so she judged, to intrude her presence if evil?tidings
                        were to be told. A man going into battle might look, so she thought, as
                        Roger Ormiston looked now—very stern and strained. It was more fitting to
                        leave the brother and sister alone together for a little space.
                    At the far end of the passage?way the servants were grouped—Clara, comely of
                        face and of person, neat notwithstanding the demoralisation of feminine
                        attire incident to prolonged travel. Winter, the Brockhurst butler,
                        clean?shaven, grey?headed, suggestive of a distinguished Anglican
                        ecclesiastic in mufti. Miss St. Quentin’s lady’s?maid, Faulstich by name, a
                        North?Country woman, angular of person and of bearing, loyal of heart.
                        Zimmermann, the colossal German?Swiss courier, with his square, yellow beard
                        and hair en brosse.—An air of
                        discouragement pervaded the party, involving even the polyglot conductor of
                        the wagon?lits, a small, quick,
                        sandy?complexioned, young fellow of uncertain nationality, with a gold band
                        round his peaked cap. He respected this family which could afford to take
                            a private railway?carriage half across
                        Europe. He shared their anxieties. And these were evidently great. Clara
                        wept. The old butler’s mouth twitched, and his slightly pendulous cheeks
                        quivered. The door at the extreme end of the car was set wide open. Ludovic
                        Quayle stood upon the little, iron balcony smoking. His feet were planted
                        far apart, yet his tall figure, swayed and curtseyed queerly as the heavy
                        carriage bumped and rattled across the points. High walls, overtopped by the
                        dark spires of cypresses, overhung by radiant wealth of lilac wistaria, and
                        of roses, red, yellow, and white, reeled away in the keen sunshine to left
                        and right. Then, clearing the outskirts of the town, the train roared
                        southward across the fair, Italian landscape beneath the pellucid, blue
                        vault of the fair, Italian sky. And to Honoria there was something of
                        heartlessness in all that fair outward prospect. Here, in Italy, the ancient
                        gods reigned still surely, the gods who are careless of human woe.
                    “Is there bad news, Winter?” she asked.
                    “Mr. Bates telegraphs to the General that it would be well her ladyship
                        should be prepared for the worst.”
                    “It’ll kill my lady. For certain sure it will kill her! She never could be
                        expected to stand up against that. And just as she was getting round from
                        her own illness so nicely too”—
                    Audibly Clara wept. Her tears so affected the sandy?complexioned, polyglot
                        conductor that he retired into his little pantry and made a most unholy
                        clattering among the plates and knives and forks. Honoria put her hand upon
                        the sobbing woman’s shoulder and drew her into the comparative privacy of
                        the adjoining compartment, rendered not a little inaccessible by a
                        multiplicity of rugs, travelling?bags, and hand?luggage.
                    “Come, sit down, Clara,” she said. “Have your cry out. And then pull yourself
                        together. Remember Lady Calmady will want just all you can do for her if Sir
                        Richard—if”—and Honoria was aware somehow of a sharp catch in her throat—“if
                        he does not live.”
                    And, meanwhile, Roger Ormiston, now in sober and dignified middle?age, found
                        himself called upon to repeat that rather sinister experience of his hot and
                        rackety youth, and, as he put it bitterly, “act hangman to his own sister.”
                        For, as he approached her, Katherine, leaning back against the piled?up
                        cushions in the corner of the railway carriage, suddenly sat bolt?upright,
                        stretching out her hands in swift fear and entreaty, as in the state?bedroom
                        at Brockhurst nine?and?twenty years ago.
                    “Oh, Roger, Roger!” she cried, “tell me, what is it?”
                    “Nothing final as yet, thank God,” he answered. “But it would be cruel to keep the truth from you, Kitty,
                        and let you buoy yourself up with false hopes.”
                    “He is worse,” Katherine said.
                    “Yes, he is worse. He is a good deal weaker. I’m afraid the state of affairs
                        has become very grave. Evidently they are apprehensive as to what turn the
                        fever may take in the course of the next twelve hours.”
                    Katherine bowed herself together as though smitten by sharp pain. Then she
                        looked at him hurriedly, fresh alarms assaulting her.
                    “You are not trying to soften the blow to me? You are not keeping anything
                        back?”
                    “No, no, no, my dear Kitty. There—see—read it for yourself. I telegraphed
                        twice, so as to have the latest news. Here’s the last reply.”
                    Ormiston unfolded the blue paper, crossed by white strips of printed matter,
                        and laid it upon her lap. And as he did so it struck him, aggravating his
                        sense of sinister repetition, that she had on the same rings and bracelets
                        as on that former occasion, and that she wore stone?grey silk too—a long
                        travelling sacque, lined and bordered with soft fur. It rustled as she
                        moved. A coif of black lace covered her upturned hair, framed her sweet
                        face, and was tied soberly under her chin. And, looking upon her, Ormiston
                        yearned in spirit over this beautiful woman who had borne such grievous
                        sorrows, and who, as he feared, had sorrow yet more grievous still to
                        bear.—“For ten to one the boy won’t pull through—he won’t pull through,” he
                        said to himself. “Poor, dear fellow, he’s nothing left to fall back upon.
                        He’s lived too hard.” And then he took himself remorsefully to task, asking
                        himself whether, among the pleasures and ambitions and successes of his own
                        career, he had been quite faithful to the dead, and quite watchful enough
                        over the now dying, Richard Calmady? He reproached himself, for, when Death
                        stands at the gate, conscience grows very sensitive regarding any lapses,
                        real or imagined, of duty towards those for whom that dread ambassador
                        waits.
                    Twice Katherine read the telegram, weighing each word of it. Then she gave
                        the blue paper back to her brother.
                    “I will ask you all to let me be alone for a little while, dear Roger,” she
                        said. “Tell Honoria, tell Ludovic, tell my good Clara. I must turn my face
                        to the wall for a time, so that, when I turn it upon you dear people again,
                        it may not be too unlovely.”
                    And Ormiston bent his head and kissed her hand, and went out, closing the door behind him; while the
                        train roared southward, through the afternoon sunshine, southward towards
                        Chiusi and Rome.
                    And Katherine Calmady sat quietly amid the noise and violent, on?rushing
                        movement, squaring accounts with her own motherhood. That she might never
                        see Dickie again, she herself dying, was an idea which had grown not
                        unfamiliar to her during these last sad years. But that she should survive,
                        only to see Dickie dead, was a new idea, and one which joined hands with
                        despair, since it constituted a conclusion big with the anguish of failure
                        to the tragedy of their relation, hers and his. Her whole sense of justice,
                        of fitness, rebelled under it, rebelled against it. She implored a space,
                        however brief, of reconciliation and reunion before the supreme farewell was
                        said. But it had become natural to Katherine’s mind, so unsparingly
                        self?trained in humble obedience to the divine ordering, not to stay in the
                        destructive, but pass on to the constructive stage. She would not indulge
                        herself with rebellion, but rather fashion her thought without delay to that
                        which should make for inward peace. And so now, turning her eyes, in
                        thought, from the present, she went back on the baby?love, the child?love
                        which, notwithstanding the abiding smart of Richard’s deformity, had been so
                        very exquisite to her. Upon the happier side of all that she had not dared
                        to dwell during this prolonged period of estrangement. It was too poignant,
                        too deep?seated in the springs of her physical being. To dwell on it
                        enervated and unnerved her. But now, Richard the grown man dying, she gave
                        herself back to Richard the little child. It solaced her to do so. Then he
                        had been wholly hers. And he was wholly hers still, in respect of that early
                        time. The man she had lost, so it seemed, how far through fault of her own
                        she could not tell. And just now she refused to analyse all that. Upon all
                        which strengthened endurance, upon gracious memories engendering
                        thankfulness, could her mind alone profitably be fixed. And so, as the train
                        roared southward, and the sun declined and the swift dusk spread its mantle
                        over the face of the classic landscape, Katherine cradled a phantom baby on
                        her knee, and sat in the oriel?window of the Chapel?Room, at Brockhurst,
                        with the phantom of her boy beside her, while she told him old?time legends
                        of war, and of high endeavour, and of gallant adventure, watching the light
                        dance in his eyes as her words awoke in him emulation of those masters of
                        noble deeds whose exploits she recounted. And in this she found comfort, and
                        a chastened calm. So that, when at length General Ormiston— incited thereto by the faithful Clara, who
                        protested that her ladyship must and should dine—returned to her, he found
                        her storm?tossed no longer, but tranquil in expression and solicitous for
                        the comfort of others. She had conquered nature by grace,—conquered, in that
                        she had compelled herself to unqualified submission. If this cup might not
                        pass from her, still would she praise Almighty God and bless His Holy Name,
                        asking not that her own, but His will, be done.
                    It followed that the evening, spent in that strangely noisy, oscillating,
                        onward?rushing dwelling?place of a railway?carriage, was not without a
                        certain subdued brightness of intercourse and conversation. Katherine was
                        neither preoccupied nor distrait, nor unamused even by the small accidents
                        and absurdities of travel. Later, while preparations were being made by the
                        servants for the coming night, she went out, with the two gentlemen and
                        Honoria St. Quentin, on to the iron platform at the rear of the swaying car,
                        and stood there under the stars. The mystery of these last, and of the dimly
                        discerned and sleeping land, offered penetrating contrast to the
                        sleeplessness of the hurrying train with its long, sinuous line of lighted
                        windows, and to the sleeplessness of her own heart. The fret of human life
                        is but as a little island in the great ocean of eternal peace—so she told
                        herself—and then bade that sleepless heart of hers both still its passionate
                        beating and take courage. And when, at length, she was alone, and lay down
                        in her narrow berth, peace and thankfulness remained with Katherine. The
                        care and affection of brother, friends, and servants, were very grateful to
                        her, so that she composed herself to rest whether slumber was granted her or
                        not. The event was in the hands of God—that surely was enough.
                    And in the dawn, reaching Rome, the news was so far better that it was not
                        worse. Richard lived. And when, some seven hours later, the train steamed
                        into Naples station, and Bates, the house?steward—the marks of haste and
                        keen anxiety upon him—pushed his way up to the carriage door, he could
                        report there was this amount of hope even yet, that Richard still lived,
                        though his strength was as that of an infant and whether it would wax or
                        wane wholly none as yet could say.
                    “Then we are in time, Bates?” Lady Calmady had asked, desiring further
                        assurance.
                    “I hope so, my lady. But I would advise your coming as quickly as
                        possible.”
                    “Is he conscious?”
                    
                    “He knew Captain Vanstone this morning, my lady, just before I left.”
                    The man?servant shouldered the crowd aside unceremoniously, so as to force a
                        passage for Lady Calmady.
                    “Her ladyship should go up to the villa at once, sir,” he said to General
                        Ormiston. “I had better accompany her. I will leave Andrews to make all
                        arrangements here. The carriage is waiting.”
                    Then, Honoria beside her, Katherine was aware of the hot glare and hard
                        shadow, the grind and clatter, the violent colour, the strident vivacity of
                        the Neapolitan streets, as with voice and whip, Garçia sprung the handsome,
                        long?tailed, black horses up the steep ascent. This, followed by the
                        impression of a cool, spacious, and lofty interior, of mild, diffused light,
                        of pale, marble floors and stairways, of rich hangings and distinguished
                        objects of art, of the soft, green gloom of ilex and myrtle, the languid
                        drip of fountains. And this last served to mark, as with raised finger, the
                        hush—bland, yet very imperative—which held all the place. After the
                        ceaseless jar and tumult of that many?days’ journey, here, up at the villa,
                        it seemed as though urgency were absurd, hot haste of affection a little
                        vulgar, a little contemptible, all was so composed, so very urbane.
                    And that urbanity so bland, so, in a way, supercilious, affected Honoria St.
                        Quentin unpleasantly. She was taken with unreasoning dislike of the place,
                        finding something malign, trenching on cruelty even, in its exalted
                        serenity, its unchanging, inaccessible, masklike smile. Very certainly the
                        ancient gods held court here yet, the gods who are careless of human tears,
                        heedless of human woe! And she looked anxiously at Lady Calmady, penetrated
                        by fear that the latter was about to be exposed to some insidious danger, to
                        come into conflict with influences antagonistic and subtly evil. Wicked
                        deeds had been committed in this fair place, wicked designs nourished and
                        brought to fruition here. She was convinced of that. Was convinced further
                        that those designs had connection with and had been directed against Lady
                        Calmady. The thought of Helen de Vallorbes, exquisite and vicious,—as she
                        now reluctantly admitted her to be—was very present to her. As far as she
                        knew, it was quite a number of years since Helen had set foot in the villa.
                        Yet it spoke of her, spoke of the more dangerous aspects of her
                        nature.—Honoria sighed over her friend. Helen had gone, latterly, very much
                        to the bad, she feared. And as all this passed rapidly through her mind it
                        provoked all her knight? errantry, raising
                        a strongly protective spirit in her. She questioned just how much active
                        care she might take of Lady Calmady without indiscretion of
                        over?forwardness.
                    But even while she thus debated, opportunity of action was lost. Quietly, a
                        great simplicity and singleness of purpose in her demeanour, without word
                        spoken, without looking back, Katherine followed the house?steward across
                        the cool, spacious hall, through a doorway and out of sight.
                    And that singleness of purpose, so discernible in her outward demeanour,
                        possessed Katherine’s being throughout. She was as one who walks in sleep,
                        pushed by blind impulse. She was not conscious of herself, not conscious of
                        joy or fear, or any emotion. She moved forward dumbly, and without volition,
                        towards the event. Her senses were confused by this transition to stillness
                        from noise, by the immobility of all surrounding objects after the reeling
                        landscape on either hand the swaying train, by the bland and tempered light
                        after the harsh contrasts of glare and darkness so constantly offered to her
                        vision of late. She was dazed and faint, moreover, so that her knees
                        trembled. Her sensibility, her powers of realisation and of sympathy, were
                        for the time being atrophied.
                    The house?steward ushered her into a large, square room. The low,
                        darkly?painted, vaulted ceiling of it produced a cavernous effect. An
                        orderly disorder prevailed, and a somewhat mournful dimness of closed,
                        green?slatted shutters and half?drawn curtains. The furniture, costly in
                        fact, but dwarfed, in some cases actually legless, was ranged against the
                        squat, carven bookcases that lined the walls leaving the middle of the room
                        vacant, save for a low, narrow camp?bed. The bed stood at right angles to
                        the door by which Katherine entered, the head of it towards the shuttered,
                        heavily?draped windows, the foot towards the inside wall of the room. At the
                        bedside a man knelt on one knee; and his appearance aroused, in a degree,
                        Katherine’s dormant powers of observation. He had a short, crisp, black
                        beard and crisp, black hair. He was alert and energetic of face and figure,
                        a man of dare?devil, humorous, yet kindly eyes. He wore a blue serge suit
                        with brass buttons to it. He was in his stocking?feet. The wristbands and
                        turn?down collar of his white shirt were immaculate. Katherine, lost,
                        trembling, the support of the habitual taken from her, a stranger in a
                        strange land, liked the man. He appeared so admirable an example of physical
                        health. He inspired her with confidence, his presence seeming to carry with
                        it assurance of that which is wholesome, normal, and sane. He glanced at her
                            sharply, not without hint of
                        criticism, and of command. Authoritatively he signed to her to remain
                        silent, to stand at the head of the bed, and well clear of it, out of sight.
                        Katherine did not resent this. She obeyed.
                    And standing thus, rallying her will to conscious effort, she looked
                        steadily, for the first time, at the bed and that which lay upon it. And so
                        doing she could hardly save herself from falling, since she saw there
                        precisely that which the shape of the room and the disarray of it, along
                        with vacant space and the low camp?bed in the centre of that space, had
                        foretold—notwithstanding her dumbness of feeling, deadness of sympathy—she
                        most assuredly must see.—All these last four?and?twenty hours she had
                        solaced herself with the phantom society of Dickie the baby?child, of Dickie
                        the eager boy, curious of many things. But here was one different from both
                        these. Different, too, from the young man, tremendous in arrogance, and in
                        revolt against the indignity put on him by fate, from whom she had parted in
                        such anguish of spirit nearly five years back. For, in good truth, she saw
                        now, not Richard Calmady her son, her anxious charge, whose debtor—in that
                        she had brought him into life disabled—she held herself eternally to be; but
                        Richard Calmady her husband, the desire of her eyes, the glory of her
                        youth—saw him, worn by suffering, disfigured by unsightly growth of beard,
                        pallid, racked by mortal weakness, the sheet expressing the broad curve of
                        his chest, the sheet and light blanket disclosing the fact of that hideous
                        maiming he had sustained—saw him now, as on the night he died.
                    Captain Vanstone, meanwhile, reassured as to the newcomer’s discretion and
                        docility, applied his mind to his patient.
                    “See here, sir,” he said, banteringly yet tenderly, “we were just getting
                        along first?rate with these uncommonly mixed liquors. You mustn’t cry off
                        again, Sir Richard.”
                    He slipped his arm under the pillows, dexterously raising the young man’s
                        head, and held the cup to his lips.
                    “My dear, good fellow, I wish you would let me be,” Dickie murmured
                        faintly.
                    He spoke courteously, yet there were tears in his voice for very weakness.
                        And, hearing him, it was as though something stirred within Katherine which
                        had long been bound by bitterness of heavy frost.
                    Vanstone shook his head.—“Very sorry, Sir Richard,” he replied. “Daren’t let
                        you off. I’ve got my orders, you see.”
                    The bold and kindly eyes had a certain magnetic efficacy of compulsion in
                        them. The sick man drank, swallowed with
                        difficulty, yet drank again. Then he lay back, for a while, his eyes closed,
                        resting. And Katherine stood at the head of the bed, out of sight, waiting
                        till her time should come. She folded her hands high upon her bosom. Her
                        thought remained inarticulate, yet she began to understand that which she
                        had striven so sternly to uproot, that which she had supposed she had
                        extirpated, still remained with her. Once more, with a terror of joyful
                        amazement, she began to scale the height and sound the depth of human
                        love.
                    Presently the voice—whether that of husband or of son she did not stay to
                        discriminate—it gripped her very vitals—reached her from the bed. She
                        fancied it rang a little stronger.
                    “It is contemptibly futile, and therefore conspicuously in keeping with the
                        rest, to have taken all this trouble about dying only, in the end, to sneak
                        back.”
                    “Oh! well, sir, after all you’re not so very far on the return voyage yet,”
                        Vanstone put in consolingly.
                    Richard opened his eyes. Katherine’s vision was blurred. She could not see
                        very clearly, but she fancied he smiled.
                    “Yes, with luck, I may still give you all the slip,” he said.
                    “Now, a little more, sir, please. Yes, you can if you try.”
                    “But I tell you I don’t care about this business of sneaking back. I don’t
                        want to live.”
                    “Very likely not. But I’m very much mistaken if you want to die like a cat,
                        in a cupboard, here ashore. Mend enough to get away on board the yacht to
                        sea. There’ll be time enough then to argue the question out, sir. Half a
                        mile of blue water under your feet sends up the value of life most
                        considerably.”
                    As he spoke the sailor looked at Katherine Calmady. His glance enjoined
                        caution, yet conveyed encouragement.
                    “Here, take down the rest of it, Sir Richard,” he said persuasively. “Then I
                        swear I won’t plague you any more for a good hour.”
                    Again he raised the sick man dexterously, and as he did so Katherine observed
                        that a purple scar, as of a but newly healed wound, ran right across
                        Dickie’s cheek from below the left eye to the turn of the lower jaw. And the
                        sight of it moved her strangely, loosening the last of that binding as of
                        frost. A swift madness of anger against whoso had inflicted that ugly hurt
                        arose in Katherine; while her studied resignation, her strained passivity of
                        mental attitude, went down before a passion of violent and primitive
                        emotion. The spirit of battle became dominant in her, along with an immense
                        necessity of loving and of being loved. Tender phantoms of past joy ceased
                        to solace. The actual, the concrete, the
                        immediate, compelled her with a certain splendour of demand. Katherine
                        appeared to grow taller, more regal of presence. The noble energy of youth
                        and its limitless generosity returned to her. Instinctively she unfastened
                        her pelisse at the throat, took the lace coif from her head, letting it fall
                        to the ground, and moved nearer.
                    Richard pushed the cup away from his lips.
                    “There’s someone in the room, Vanstone!” he said, his voice harsh with anger.
                        “’Some woman—I heard her dress. I told you all—whatever happened—I would
                        have no woman here.”
                    But Katherine, undismayed, came straight on to the bedside. She loved. She
                        would not be gainsaid. With the whole force of her nature she refused denial
                        of that love.—For a brief space Richard looked at her, his face ghastly and
                        rigid as that of a corpse. Then he raised himself in the bed, stretching out
                        both arms, with a hoarse cry that tore at his throat and shuddered through
                        all his frame. And, as he would have fallen forward, exhausted by the effort
                        to reach her and the lovely shelter of her, Katherine caught and, kneeling,
                        held him, his poor hands clutching impotently at her shoulders, his head
                        sinking upon her breast. While, in that embrace, not only all the motherhood
                        in her leapt up to claim the sonship in him, but all the womanhood in her
                        leapt up to claim the manhood in him, thereby making the broken circle of
                        her being once more wholly perfect and complete, so that carrying the whole
                        dear burden of his fever?wasted body in her encircling arms and upon her
                        breast, even as she had carried, long since, that dear fruit of love, the
                        unborn babe, within her womb, Katherine was taken with a very ecstasy and
                        rapture of content.
                    “My beloved is mine—is mine!” she cried,—“and I am his.”
                    Captain Vanstone was on his feet and half way across the room.
                    “Man alive, but it hurts like merry hell!” he said, as he softly closed the
                        door.
                
                
                    CHAPTER III
                    CONCERNING A SPIRIT IN PRISON
                    UPON those moments of rapture followed days of trembling, during
                        which the sands of Richard Calmady’s life ran very low, and his brain
                        wandered in delirium, and he spoke unwittingly of many matters of which it
                        was unprofitable to hear. Periods of
                        unconsciousness, when he lay as one dead; periods of incessant utterance—now
                        violent in unavailing repudiation, now harsh with unavailing
                        remorse—alternated. And, at this juncture, much of Lady Calmady’s former
                        very valiant pride asserted itself. In tender jealousy for the honour of her
                        beloved one she shut the door of that sick?room, of sinister aspect, against
                        brother and friend, and even against the faithful Clara. None should see or
                        hear Richard in his present alienation and abjection, save herself and those
                        who had hitherto ministered to him. He should regain a measure, at least, of
                        his old distinction and beauty before any, beyond these, looked on his face.
                        And so his own men?servants—Captain Vanstone, capable, humorous, and
                        alert—and Price, the red?headed, Welsh first mate, of varied and voluminous
                        gift of invective—continued to nurse him. These men loved him. They would be
                        loyal in silence, since, whatever his lapses, Dickie was and always had
                        been, as Katherine reflected, among the number of those happily?endowed
                        persons who triumphantly give the lie to the cynical saying that “no man is
                        a hero to his valet de chambre.”
                    To herself Katherine reserved the right to enter that sinister sick?room
                        whenever she pleased, and to sit by the bedside, waiting for the
                        moment—should it ever come—when Richard would again recognise her, and give
                        himself to her again. And those vigils proved a searching enough experience,
                        notwithstanding her long apprenticeship to service of sorrow—which was also
                        the service of her son. For, in the mental and moral nudity of delirium, he
                        made strange revelation, not only of acts committed, but of inherent
                        tendencies of character and of thought. He spoke, with bewildering
                        inconsequence and intimacy, of incidents and of persons with whom she was
                        unacquainted, causing her to follow him—a rather brutal pilgrimage—into
                        regions where the feet of women, bred and nurtured like herself, but seldom
                        tread. He spoke of persons with whom she was well acquainted also, and whose
                        names arrested her attention with pathetic significance, offering, for the
                        moment, secure standing ground amid the shifting quicksand of his
                        but?half?comprehended words. He spoke of Morabita, the famous prima donna, and of gentle Mrs. Chifney down at
                        the Brockhurst racing?stables. He grew heated in discussion with Lord
                        Fallowfeild. He petted little Lady Constance Quayle. He called Camp, coaxed
                        and chaffed the dog merrily—whereat Lady Calmady rose from her place by the
                        bedside and stood at one of the dim, shuttered windows for a while. He spoke
                        of places, too, and of happenings in them, from Westchurch to
                        Constantinople, from a nautch at Singapore to a country fair at Farley Row. But, recurrent
                        through all his wanderings were allusions, unsparing in revolt and in
                        self?abasement, to a woman whom he had loved and who had dealt very vilely
                        with him, putting some unpardonable shame upon him, and to a man whom he
                        himself had very basely wronged. The name, neither of man nor woman, did
                        Katherine learn.—Madame de Vallorbes’ name, for which she could not but
                        listen, he never mentioned, nor did he mention her own.—And recurrent, also,
                        running as a black thread through all his speech, was lament, not unmanly
                        but very terrible to hear—the lament of a creature, captive, maimed,
                        imprisoned, perpetually striving, perpetually frustrated in the effort to
                        escape. And, noting all this, Katherine not only divined very dark and evil
                        pages in the history of her beloved one; but a struggle so continuous and a
                        sorrow so abiding that, in her estimation at all events, they cancelled and
                        expiated the darkness and evil of those same pages. While the mystery, both
                        of wrong done and sorrow suffered, so wrought upon her that, having, in the
                        first ecstasy of recovered human love, deserted and depreciated the godward
                        love a little, she now ran back imploring assurance and renewal of that
                        last, in all penitence and humility, lest, deprived of the counsel and sure
                        support of it, she should fail to read the present and deal with the future
                        aright—if, indeed, any future still remained for that beloved one other than
                        the yawning void of death and inscrutable silence of the grave!
                    The better part of a week passed thus; and then, one fair morning, Winter,
                        bringing her breakfast to the ante?room of that same sea?blue, sea?green
                        bed?chamber—sometime tenanted by Helen de Vallorbes—disclosed a beaming
                        countenance.
                    “Mr. Powell wishes me to inform your ladyship that Sir Richard has passed a
                        very good night. He has come to himself, my lady, and has asked for
                        you.”
                    The butler’s hands shook as he set down the tray.
                    “I hope your ladyship will take something to eat before you go downstairs,”
                        he added. “Mr. Powell told Sir Richard that it was still early; and he
                        desired that on no consideration should you be hurried.”
                    Which little word of thoughtfulness on Dickie’s part brought a roundness to
                        Katherine’s cheek and a soft shining into her sweet eyes; so that Honoria
                        St. Quentin, sauntering into the room just then with her habitual lazy
                        grace, stood still a moment in pleased surprise noting the change in her
                        friend’s appearance.
                    “Why, dear Cousin Katherine,” she asked, “what’s happened? All’s right with
                        the world!”
                    
                    “Yes,” Katherine answered. “God’s very much in His heaven, to?day, and all’s
                        right with all the world, because things are a little more right with one
                        man in it.—That is the woman’s creed—always has been, I suppose, and I
                        rather hope always will be. It is frankly personal and individualistic, I
                        know. Possibly it is reprehensibly narrow?minded. Still I doubt if she will
                        readily find another which makes for greater happiness or fulness of life.
                        You don’t agree, dearest, I know—nevertheless pour out my tea for me, will
                        you? I want to dispose of this necessary evil of breakfast with all possible
                        despatch. Richard has sent for me. He has slept and is awake.”
                    And as Miss St. Quentin served her dear friend, she pondered this speech
                        curiously, saying to herself:—“Yes, I did right; though I never liked
                        Ludovic Quayle better than now, and never liked any other man as well as I
                        like Ludovic Quayle. But that’s not enough. I’m getting hold of the
                        appearance of the thing, but I haven’t got hold of the thing itself. And so
                        the woman in me must continue to be kept in the back attic. She shall be
                        denied all further development. She shall have nothing unless she can have
                        the whole of it, and repeat Cousin Katherine’s creed from her heart.”
                    Richard did not speak when Lady Calmady crossed the room and sat down at the
                        bedside. He barely raised his eyelids. But he felt out for her hand across
                        the surface of the sheet. And she took the proffered hand in both hers and
                        fell to stroking the palm of it with her finger?tips. And this silent
                        greeting, and confiding contact of hand with hand, was to her exquisitely
                        healing. It gave an assurance of nearness and acknowledged ownership, more
                        satisfying and convincing than many eloquent phrases of welcome. And so she,
                        too, remained silent, only indeed permitting herself, for a little while, to
                        look at him, lest so doing she should make further demand upon his poor
                        quantity of strength. A folding screen in stamped leather, of which age had
                        tempered the ruby and gold to a sober harmony of tone, had been placed round
                        the head of the bed, throwing this last into clear, quiet shadow. The bed
                        linen was fresh and smooth. Richard had made a little toilet. His silk
                        shirt, open at the throat, was also fresh and smooth. He was clean shaven,
                        his hair cropped into that closely?fitting, bright?brown cap of curls.
                        Katherine perceived that his beauty had begun to return to him, though his
                        face was distressingly worn and emaciated, and the long, purplish line of
                        that unexplained scar still disfigured his cheek. His hands were little more
                        than skin and bone. Indeed he was fragile, she feared, as any person could
                        be who yet had life in him, and she
                        wondered, rather fearfully, if it was yet possible to build up that life
                        again into any joy of energy and of activity. But she put such fears from
                        her as unworthy. For were they not together, he and she, actually and
                        consciously reunited? That was sufficient. The rest could wait.
                    And to?day, as though lending encouragement to gracious hopes, the usually
                        gloomy and cavernous room had taken to itself a quite generous plenishing of
                        air and light. The heavy curtains were drawn aside. The casements of one of
                        the square, squat windows were thrown widely open. The slatted shutters
                        without were partially opened likewise. A shaft of strong sunshine slanted
                        in and lay, like a bright highway, across the rich colours of the Persian
                        carpet. The air was hot, but nimble and of a vivacious and stimulating
                        quality. It fluttered some loose papers on the writing?table near the open
                        window. It fluttered the delicate laces and fine muslin frills of Lady
                        Calmady’s morning?gown. There was a sprightly mirthfulness in the touch of
                        it not unpleasing to her. For it seemed to speak of the ever?obtaining
                        youth, the incalculable power of recuperation, the immense reconstructive
                        energy resident in nature and the physical domain. And there was comfort in
                        that thought. She turned her eyes from the bed and its somewhat sorrowful
                        burden—the handsome head, the broad, though angular, shoulders, the face,
                        immobile and masklike, with closed eyelids and unsmiling lips, reposing upon
                        the whiteness of the pillows—and fixed them upon that radiant space of outer
                        world visible between the dark?framing of the half?open shutters. Beyond the
                        dazzling, black?and?white chequer of the terrace and balustrade, they rested
                        on the cool green of the formal garden, the glistering dome and slender
                        columns of the pavilion set in the angle of the terminal wall. And this last
                        reminded her quaintly of that other pavilion, embroidered, with industry of
                        innumerable stitches, upon the curtains of the state?bed at home—that
                        pavilion, set for rest and refreshment in the midst of the tangled ways of
                        the Forest of This Life, where the Hart may breathe in security, fearless of
                        Care, the pursuing leopard, which follows all too close behind.—Owing to her
                        position and the sharp drop of the hillside, Naples itself, the great
                        painted city, its fine buildings and crowded shipping, was unseen; but, far
                        away, the lofty promontory of Sorrento sketched itself in palest lilac upon
                        the azure of sea and sky.
                    And, as Katherine reasoned, if this fair prospect, after so many ages of
                        tumultuous history and shock of calamitous events, after battle, famine,
                        terror of earthquake and fire, devastation by foul disease, could still recover and present
                        such an effect of triumphant youthfulness, such an at once august and
                        mirthful charm, might not her beloved one, lying here broken in health and
                        in spirit, likewise regain the glory of his manhood and the delight of it,
                        notwithstanding present weakness and mournful eclipse?—Yes, it would come
                        right—come right—Katherine told herself, thereby making one of those
                        magnificent acts of faith which go so far to produce just that which they
                        prophesy. God could not have created so complex and beautiful a creature,
                        and permitted it so to suffer, save to the fulfilment of some clear purpose
                        which would very surely be made manifest at last. God Almighty should be
                        justified of His strange handiwork and she of her love before the whole of
                        the story was told.—And, stirred by these thoughts, and by the fervour of
                        her own pious confidence, Katherine’s finger?tips travelled more rapidly
                        over the palm of that outstretched and passive hand. Then, on a sudden, she
                        became aware that Richard was looking fixedly at her. She turned her head
                        proudly, the exaltation of a living faith very present in her smile.
                    “You are the same,” he said slowly. His voice was low, toneless, and
                        singularly devoid of emotion.—“ Deliciously the same. You are just as
                        lovely. You still have your pretty colour. You are hardly a day older”—
                    He paused, still regarding her fixedly.
                    “I’m glad you have got on one of those white, frilly things you used to wear.
                        I always liked them.”
                    Katherine could not speak just then. This sudden and complete intimacy
                        unnerved her. It was so long since anyone had spoken to her thus. It was
                        very dear to her, yet the toneless voice gave a strange unreality to the
                        tender words.
                    “It’s a matter for congratulation that you are the same,” Richard went on,
                        “since everything else, it appears, is destined to continue the same. One
                        should have one thing it is agreeable to contemplate in that connection,
                        considering the vast number of things altogether the reverse of agreeable
                        and which one fondly hoped one was rid of forever, which intrude
                        themselves.”
                    He shifted himself feebly on the pillows, and the flicker of a smile crossed
                        his face.
                    “Poor, dear mother,” he said, “you see again, without delay, the old bad
                        habit of grumbling!”
                    “Grumble on, grumble on, my best beloved,” Katherine murmured, while her
                        finger?tips travelled softly over his palm.
                    “Verily and indeed, you are the same!” Richard rejoined. Once more he lay looking full at her, until she
                        became almost abashed by that unswerving scrutiny. It came over her that the
                        plane of their relation had changed. Richard was, as never heretofore, her
                        equal, a man grown.
                    Suddenly he spoke.
                    “Can you forgive me?”
                    And so far had Katherine’s thought journeyed from the past, so absorbed was
                        it in the present, that she answered, surprised:—
                    “My dearest, forgive what?”
                    “Injustice, ingratitude, desertion,” Richard said, “neglect, systematic
                        cruelty. There is plenty to swell the list. All I boasted I would do I have
                        done—and more.”—His voice, until now so even and emotionless, faltered a
                        little. “I have sinned against heaven and before thee, and am no more worthy
                        to be called thy son.”
                    Katherine’s hand closed down on his firmly.
                    “All that, as far as I am concerned, is as though it was not and never had
                        been,” she answered.—“So much for judgment on earth, dearest.—While in
                        heaven, thank God, we know there is more joy over the one sinner who repents
                        than over the ninety?and?nine just persons who need no repentance.”
                    “And you really believe that?” Richard said, speaking half indulgently, half
                        ironically, as if to a child.
                    “Assuredly I believe it.”
                    “But supposing the sinner is not repentant, but merely cowed?”—Richard
                        straightened his head on the pillows and dosed his eyes. “You gave me leave
                        to grumble—well, then, I am so horribly disappointed. Here have life and
                        death been sitting on either side of me for the past month, and throwing
                        with dice for me. I saw them as plainly as I can see you. The queer thing
                        was they were exactly alike, yet I knew them apart from the first. Day and
                        night I heard the rattle of the dice—it became hideously monotonous—and felt
                        the mouth of the dice?box on my chest when they threw. I backed death
                        heavily. It seemed to me there were ways of loading the dice. I loaded them.
                        But it wasn’t to be, mother. Life always threw the highest numbers—and life
                        had the last throw.”
                    “I praise God for that,” Katherine said, very softly.
                    “I don’t, unfortunately,” he answered. “I hoped for a neat little execution—a
                        little pain, perhaps, a little shedding of blood, without which there is no
                        remission of sins—but I suppose that would have been letting me off too
                        easy.”
                    He drew away his hand and covered his eyes.
                    
                    “When I had seen you I seemed to have made my final peace. I understood why I
                        had been kept waiting till then. Having seen you, I flattered myself I might
                        decently get free at last. But I am branded afresh, that’s all, and sent
                        back to the galleys.”
                    Lady Calmady’s eyes sought the radiant prospect—the green of the garden, the
                        graceful columns of the airy pavilion, the lilac land set in the azure of
                        sea and sky. No words of hers could give comfort as yet, so she would remain
                        silent. Her trust was in the amiable ministry of time, which may bring
                        solace to the tormented, human soul, even as it reclothes the mountain?side
                        swept by the lava stream, or cleanses and renders gladly habitable the
                        plague?devastated city.
                    But there was a movement upon the bed. Richard had turned on his side. He had
                        recovered his self?control, and once more looked fixedly at her.
                    “Mother,” he said calmly, “is your love great enough to take me back, and to
                        give yourself to me again, though I am not fit so much as to kiss the hem of
                        your garment?”
                    “There is neither giving nor taking, my beloved,” she answered, smiling upon
                        him. “In the truth of things, you have never left me, neither have I ever
                        let you go.”
                    “Ah! but consider these last four years and their record!” he rejoined. “I am
                        not the same man that I was. There’s no getting away from fact, from deeds
                        actually done, or words actually said, for that matter. I have kept my
                        singularly repulsive infirmity of body, and to it I have added a mind
                        festering with foul memories. I have been a brute to you, a traitor to a
                        friend who trusted me. I have been a sensualist, an adulterer. And I am
                        hopelessly broken in pride and self?respect. The conceit, the pluck even,
                        has been licked right out of me.”—Richard paused, steadying his voice which
                        faltered again.—“I only want, since it seems I’ve got to go on living, to
                        slink away somewhere out of sight, and hide myself and my wretchedness and
                        shame from everyone I know.—Can you bear with me, soured and invalided as I
                        am, mother? Can you put up with my temper, and my silence, and my grumbling,
                        useless log as I must continue to be?”
                    “Yes—everlastingly yes,” Katherine answered.
                    Richard threw himself flat on his back again.
                    “Ah! how I hate myself—my God, how I hate myself!” he exclaimed.
                    “And how beyond all worlds I love you,” Katherine put in quietly.
                    
                    He felt out for her hand across the sheet, found and held it. There were
                        footsteps upon the terrace to the right, the scent of a cigar, Ludovic
                        Quayle’s voice in question, Honoria St. Quentin’s in answer, both with
                        enforced discretion and lowness of tone. General Ormiston joined them. Miss
                        St. Quentin laughed gently. The sound was musical and sweet. Footsteps and
                        voices died away. A clang of bells and the hooting of an outward?bound liner
                        came up from the city and the port.
                    Richard’s calm had returned. His expression had softened.
                    “Will those two marry?” he asked presently.
                    Lady Calmady paused before speaking.
                    “I hope so—for Ludovic’s sake,” she said. “He has served, if not quite
                        Jacob’s seven years, yet a full five for his love.”
                    “If for Ludovic’s sake, why not for hers?” Dickie asked.
                    “Because two halves don’t always make a whole in marriage,” Katherine
                        said.
                    “You are as great an idealist as ever!”—He paused, then raised himself,
                        sitting upright, speaking with a certain passion.
                    “Mother, will you take me away, away from everyone, at once, just as soon as
                        possible? I never want to see this room, or this house, or Naples again. The
                        climax was reached here of disillusion, and of iniquity, and of degradation.
                        Don’t ask what it was. I couldn’t tell you. And, mercifully, only one
                        person, whose lips are sealed in self?defence, knows exactly what took place
                        besides myself. But I want to get away, away alone with you, who are
                        perfectly unsullied and compassionate, and who have forgiven me, and who
                        still can love. Will you come? Will you take me? The yacht is all ready for
                        sea.”
                    “Yes,” Katherine said.
                    “I asked this morning who was here with you, and Powell told me. I can’t see
                        them, mother, simply I can’t! I haven’t the nerve. I haven’t the face. Can
                        you send them away?”
                    “Yes,” Katherine said.
                    Richard’s eyes had grown dangerously bright. A spot of colour burned on
                        either cheek. Katherine leaned over him.
                    “My dearest,” she declared, “you have talked enough.”
                    “Yes, they’re beginning to play again, I can hear the rattle of the
                        dice.—Mother, take me away, take me out to sea, away from this dreadful
                        place.—Ah! you poor darling, how horribly selfish I am!—But let me get out
                        to sea, and then later, take me home—to Brockhurst. The house is big. Nobody
                        need see me.”
                    “No, no,”’ Katherine said, laying him back with tender force upon the pillows.—“No one has seen you, no one
                        shall see you. We will be alone, you and I, just as long as you wish. With
                        me, my beloved, you are very safe.”
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV
                    DEALING WITH MATTERS OF HEARSAY AND MATTERS OF SPORT
                    ONE raw, foggy evening, early in the following December, the house
                        at Newlands presented an unusually animated scene. On the gravel of the
                        carriage?sweep, without, grooms walked breathed and sweating horses—the
                        steam from whose bodies and nostrils showed white in the chill dusk—slowly
                        up and down. In the hall, within, a number of gentlemen, more or less
                        mud?bespattered, regaled themselves with cheerful conversation, with strong
                        waters of unexceptionable quality, and with their host, Mr. Cathcart’s, very
                        excellent cigars. They moved stiffly and stood in attitudes more
                        professional than elegant. The long, clear?coloured drawing?room beyond
                        offered a perspective of much amiable comfort. The glazed surfaces of its
                        flowery?patterned chintzes gave back the brightness of candles and shaded
                        lamps, while drawn curtains shut out the somewhat mournful prospect of
                        sodden garden, bare trees, and grey, enshrouding mist. At the tea?table,
                        large, mild, reposeful, clothed in wealth of black silk and black lace, was
                        Mrs. Cathcart. Lord Fallowfeild, his handsome, infantile countenance beaming
                        with good?nature and good?health above his blue?and?white, bird’s?eye stock
                        and scarlet hunting?coat, sat by her discoursing with great affability and
                        at great length. Mary Ormiston stood near them, an expression of kindly
                        diversion upon her face. Her figure had grown somewhat matronly in these
                        days, and there were lines in her forehead and about the corners of her
                        rather large mouth; but her crisp hair was still untouched by grey, her
                        bright, gipsylike complexion had retained its freshness, she possessed the
                        same effect of wholesomeness and good sense as of old, while her honest,
                        brown eyes were soft with satisfied mother?love as they met those of the
                        slender, black?headed boy at her side.—Godfrey Ormiston was in his second
                        term at Eton, and had come to Newlands to?day for his exeat.—The little
                        party was completed by Lord Shotover, who stood before the fire warming that
                        part of his person which by the lay mind, unversed in such mysteries, might
                        have been judged to be already more than sufficiently warmed by the saddle, his feet planted far apart and a
                        long glass of brandy and soda in his hand. For this last he had offered
                        good?tempered apology.
                    “I know I’ve no business to bring it in here, Mrs. Cathcart,” he said, “and
                        make your drawing?room smell like a pot?house. But, you see, there was a
                        positive stampede for the hearth?rug in the hall. A modest man, such as
                        myself, hadn’t a chance. There’s a regular rampart, half the county in fact,
                        before that fire. So I thought I’d just slope in here, don’t you know. It
                        looked awfully warm and inviting. And then I wanted to pay my respects to
                        Mrs. Ormiston too, and talk to this young chap about Eton in peace.”
                    Whereat Godfrey flushed up to the roots of his hair, being very sensibly
                        exalted. Since what young male creature who knew anything really worth
                        knowing—that was Godfrey’s way of putting it at least—did not know that Lord
                        Shotover had been a mighty sportsman from his youth up, and upon a certain
                        famous occasion had won the Grand National on his own horse?
                    “Only tea for me, Mrs. Cathcart,” Lord Fallowfeild was saying. “Capital thing
                        tea. Never touch spirits in the daytime and never have. No reflection upon
                        other men’s habits.”—He turned an admiring, fatherly glance upon the tall,
                        well?made Shotover.—“Other men know their own business best. Always have
                        been a great advocate for believing every man knows his own business best.
                        Still stick to my own habits. Like to be consistent. Very steadying,
                        sobering thing to be consistent, very strengthening to the character. Always
                        have told all my children that. As you begin, so you should go on. Always
                        have tried to begin as I was going on. Haven’t always succeeded, but have
                        made an honest effort. And it is something, you know, to make an honest
                        effort. Try to bear that in mind, you young gentleman,”—this, genially, to
                        Godfrey Ormiston. “Not half a bad rule to start in life with, to go on as
                        you begin, you know.”
                    “Always provided you begin right, you know, my dear fellow,” Shotover
                        observed, patting the boy’s shoulder with his disengaged hand, and looking
                        at the boy’s mother with a humorous suggestion of self?depreciation. Now, as
                        formerly, he entertained the very friendliest sentiments towards all good
                        women, yet maintained an expensively extensive acquaintance with women to
                        whom that adjective is not generically applicable.
                    But Lord Fallowfeild was fairly under weigh. Words flowed from him, careless
                        of comment or of interruption. He was innocently and conspicuously happy. He
                        had enjoyed a fine day’s sport in company
                        with his favourite son, whose financial embarrassments were not, it may be
                        added, just now in a critical condition. And then access of material
                        prosperity had recently come to Lord Fallowfeild in the shape of a
                        considerable coal?producing property in the north of Midlandshire. The
                        income derived from this—amounting to from ten to twelve thousand a year—was
                        payable to him during his lifetime, with remainder, on trust, in equal
                        shares to all his children. There were good horses in the Whitney stables
                        now, and no question of making shift to let the house in Belgrave Square for
                        the season, while the amiable nobleman’s banking?account showed a far from
                        despicable balance. And consciousness of this last fact formed an agreeable
                        undercurrent to his every thought. Therefore was he even more than usually
                        garrulous according to his own kindly and innocent fashion.
                    “Very hospitable and friendly of you and Cathcart, to be sure,” he continued,
                        “to throw open your house in this way. Kindness alike to man and beast, man
                        and beast, for which my son and I are naturally very grateful.”
                    Lord Shotover looked at Mary again, smiling.—“Little mixed that statement,
                        isn’t it,” he said, “unless we take for granted that I’m the beast?”
                    “I was a good deal perplexed, I own, Mrs. Cathcart, as to how we should get
                        home without giving the horses a rest and having them gruelled. Fourteen
                        miles”—
                    “A precious long fourteen too,” put in Shotover.
                    “So it is,” his father agreed, “a long fourteen. And my horse was pumped,
                        regularly pumped. I can’t bear to see a horse as done as that. It distresses
                        me, downright distresses me. Hate to over?press a horse. Hate to over?press
                        anything that can’t stand up to you and take its revenge on you. Always feel
                        ashamed of myself if I’ve over?pressed a horse. But I hadn’t reckoned on the
                        distance.”
                    “’The pace was too hot to inquire,’” quoted Shotover.
                    “So it was. Meeting at Grimshott, you see, we very rarely kill so far on this
                        side of the country.”
                    “Breaking just where he did, I’d have bet on that fox doubling back under
                        Talepenny wood and making across the vale for the earths in the big
                        Brockhurst warren,” Lord Shotover declared.
                    “Would you, though?” said his father. “Very reasonable forecast, very
                        reasonable, indeed. Quite the likeliest thing for him to do, only he didn’t
                        do it. Don’t believe that fox belonged to this side of the country at all.
                        Don’t understand his tactics. If it had
                        been in my poor friend Denier’s time, I might have suspected him of being a
                        bagman.”
                    Lord Fallowfeild chuckled a little.
                    “Ran too straight for a bagman,” Shotover remarked. “Well, he gave us a
                        rattling good spin whose?ever fox he was.”
                    “Didn’t he, though?” said Lord Fallowfeild genially.—He turned sideways in
                        his chair, threw one shapely leg across the other, and addressed himself
                        more exclusively to his hostess. “Haven’t had such a day for years,” he
                        continued. “And a very pleasant thing to have such a day just when my son’s
                        down with me—very pleasant, indeed. It reminds me of my poor, dear friend
                        Henniker’s time. Good fellow Henniker. I liked Henniker. Never had a better
                        master than Tom Henniker, very tactful, nice?feeling man, and had such an
                        excellent manner with the farmers—Ah! here’s Cathcart—and Knott. How d’ye
                        do, Knott? Always glad to see you.—Very pleasant meeting such a number of
                        friends. Very pleasant ending to a pleasant day, eh, Shotover? Mrs. Cathcart
                        and I were just speaking of poor Tom Henniker. You used to hunt then,
                        Cathcart. Do you remember a run, just about this time of year?—It may have
                        been a little earlier. I tell you why. It was the second time the hounds met
                        after my poor friend Aldborough’s funeral.”
                    “Lord Aldborough died on the twenty?seventh of October,” John Knott said. The
                        doctor limped in walking. He suffered a sharp twinge of sciatica and his
                        face lent itself to astonishing contortions.
                    “Plain man Knott,” Lord Fallowfeild commented inwardly. “Monstrously able
                        fellow, but uncommonly plain. So’s Cathcart for that matter. Well?dressed
                        man and very well?preserved as to figure, but remarkably like an
                        orang?outang now his eyes are sunk and his eyebrows have grown so
                        tufty.”—Then he glanced anxiously at Lord Shotover to assure himself of the
                        entire absence of simian approximations in the case of his own family.—“Oh!
                        ah! yes,” he remarked aloud, and somewhat vaguely. “Quite right, Knott. Then
                        of course it was earlier. Record run for that season. Seldom had a better.
                        We found a fox in the Grimshott gorse and ran to Water End without a
                        check.”
                    “And Lemuel Image got into the Tilney brook,” Mary Ormiston said, laughing a
                        little.
                    “So he did, though!” Lord Fallowfeild rejoined, beaming. And then suddenly
                        his complacency suffered eclipse. For, looking at the speaker, he became
                        disagreeably aware of having, on some occasion, said something highly
                        inconvenient concerning this lady to one
                        of her near relations. He rushed into speech again:—“Loud?voiced, blustering
                        kind of fellow Image. I never have liked Image. Extraordinary marriage that
                        of his with a connection of poor Aldborough’s. Never have understood how her
                        people could allow it.”
                    “Oh! money’ll buy pretty well everything in this world except brains and a
                        sound liver,” Dr. Knott said, as he lowered himself cautiously on to the
                        seat of the highest chair available.
                    “Or a good conscience,” Mrs. Cathcart observed, with mild dogmatism.
                    “I am not altogether so sure about that,” the doctor answered. “I have known
                        the doubling of a few charitable subscriptions work extensive cures under
                        that head. Depend upon it there’s an immense deal more conscience?money paid
                        every year than ever finds its way into the coffers of the Chancellor of the
                        Exchequer.”
                    “So there is, though!” said Lord Fallowfeild, with an air of regretful
                        conviction. “Never put it as clearly as that myself, Knott, but must own I
                        am afraid there is.”
                    Mr. Cathcart, who had joined Lord Shotover upon the hearth?rug, here
                        intervened. He had a tendency to air local grievances, especially in the
                        presence of his existing noble guest, whom he regarded, not wholly without
                        reason, as somewhat lukewarm and dilatory in questions of reform.
                    “I own to sharing your dislike of Image,” he remarked. “He behaved in an
                        anything but straightforward manner about the site for the new cottage
                        hospital at Parson’s Holt.”
                    “Did he, though?” said Lord Fallowfeild.
                    “Yes.—I supposed it had been brought to your notice.”
                    Lord Fallowfeild fidgeted a little.—“Rather too downright Cathcart,” he said
                        to himself. “Gets you into a corner and fixes you. Not fair, not at all fair
                        in general society.—Oh! ah!?cottage hospital, yes,” he added aloud. “Very
                        tiresome, vexatious business about that hospital. I felt it very much at the
                        time.”
                    “It was a regular job,” Mr. Cathcart continued.
                    “No, not a job, not a job, my dear fellow. Unpleasant word job. Nothing
                        approaching a job, only an oversight, at most an unfortunate error of
                        judgment,” Lord Fallowfeild protested.—He glanced at his son inviting
                        support, but that gentleman was engaged in kindly conversation with
                        bright?eyed, little Godfrey Ormiston. He glanced at Mary—remembered suddenly
                        that his unfortunate remark regarding that lady had been connected with her
                        resemblance to her father, and the latter’s striking defect of personal
                        beauty. He glanced at the doctor. But John Knott sat all hunched together, watching him with an
                        expression rather sardonic than sympathetic.
                    “There was culpable negligence somewhere, in any case,” his persecutor, Mr.
                        Cathcart, went on. “It was obvious Image pressed that bit of land at Waters
                        End on the committee simply because no one would buy it for building
                        purposes. His affectation of generosity as to price was a piece of the most
                        transparent hypocrisy.”
                    “I suppose it was,” Lord Fallowfeild agreed mildly.
                    “A certain anonymous donor had promised a second five hundred pounds, if the
                        hospital was built on high ground with a subsoil of gravel.”
                    “It is on gravel,” put in Lord Fallowfeild anxiously. “Saw it
                        myself—distinctly remember seeing gravel when the heather had been pared
                        before digging the foundations—bright yellow gravel.”
                    “Yes, and with a ten?foot bed of blue clay underneath. Most dangerous soil
                        going,”—this from Dr. Knott, grimly.
                    “Is it, though?” Lord Fallowfeild inquired, with an amiable effort to welcome
                        unpalatable, geological information.
                    “Not a doubt of it. The surface water and generally the sewage—for we are
                        very far yet from having discovered a drainpipe which is impeccable in
                        respect of leakage—soak through the porous cap down to the clay and lie
                        there; to rise again, not at the Last Day by any means, but on the evening
                        of the very first one that’s been hot enough to cause evaporation.”
                    “Do they, though?” said Lord Fallowfeild. He was greatly impressed.—“Capable
                        fellow Knott, wonderful thing science,” he commented inwardly and with
                        praiseworthy humility.
                    But Mr. Cathcart returned to the charge.
                    “The hospital was disastrously the loser, in any case,” he remarked. “As a
                        matter of course, the conditions having been disregarded, Lady Calmady
                        withdrew her promise of a second donation.”
                    “Oh! ah! Lady Calmady, really!” the simple?minded nobleman exclaimed. “Very
                        interesting piece of news and very generous intention, no doubt, on the part
                        of Lady Calmady. But give you my word, Cathcart, that until this moment I
                        had no notion that the anonymous donor of whom we heard so much from one or
                        two members of the committee—heard too much, I thought, for I dislike
                        mysteries—foolish, unprofitable things mysteries—always turn out to be
                        nothing at all in the finish—oh! ah! yes—well, that the anonymous donor was
                        Lady Calmady!”
                    
                    And thereupon he shifted his position with as much assumption of hauteur as his inherent kindliness permitted.
                        He turned his chair sideways, presenting an excellently flat, if somewhat
                        broad, scarlet?clad back to his persecutor upon the hearth?rug.?“Sorry to
                        set a man down in his own house,” he said to himself, “but Cathcart’s a
                        little wanting in taste sometimes. He presses a subject home too closely.
                        And if I was bamboozled by Image, it really isn’t Cathcart’s place to remind
                        me of it.”
                    He turned a worried and puckered countenance upon his hostess, upon Dr.
                        Knott, upon the drawing?room door. In the hall, beyond, one or two guests
                        still lingered. A lady had just joined them, notably straight and tall, and
                        lazily graceful of movement. Lord Fallowfeild knew her, but could not
                        remember her name.
                    “Oh! ah! Shotover,” he said, over his shoulder, “I don’t want to hurry you,
                        my dear boy, but perhaps it would be as well if you’d just go round to the
                        stables and take a look at the horses.”
                    Then, as the gentleman addressed moved away, escorted by his host and
                        followed in admiring silence by Godfrey Ormiston, he repeated, almost
                        querulously:—“Foolish things mysteries. Nothing in them, as a rule, when you
                        thrash them out. Mares’ nests generally. And that reminds me, I hear
                        young”—Lord Fallowfeild’s air of worry became accentuated—“young Calmady’s
                        got home again at last.”
                    “Yes,” Mrs. Cathcart said, “Richard and his mother have been at Brockhurst
                        nearly a month.”
                    “Have they, though?” exclaimed Lord Fallowfeild. He fidgeted. “It’s a painful
                        subject to refer to, but I should be glad to know the truth of these nasty,
                        uncomfortable rumours about young Calmady. You see there was that question
                        of his and my youngest daughter’s marriage. I never approved. Shotover
                        backed me up in that. He didn’t approve either. And in the end Calmady
                        behaved in a very high?minded, straightforward manner. Came to me himself
                        and exhibited very good sense and very proper feeling, did Calmady. Admitted
                        his own disabilities with extraordinary frankness, too much frankness, I was
                        inclined to think at the time. It struck me as a trifle callous, don’t you
                        know. But afterwards, when he left home in that singular manner and went
                        abroad, and we all lost sight of him, and heard how reckless he had become
                        and all that, it weighed on me. I give you my word, Mrs. Cathcart, it
                        weighed very much on me. I’ve seldom been more upset by anything in my life
                        than I was by the whole affair of that wedding.”
                    
                    “I am afraid it was a great mistake throughout,” Mrs. Cathcart said. She
                        folded her plump, white hands upon her ample lap and sighed gently.
                    “Wasn’t it, though? So I told everybody from the start you know,” commented
                        Lord Fallowfeild.
                    “It caused a great deal of unhappiness.”
                    “So it did, so it did,” the good man said. He looked crestfallen, his kindly
                        and well?favoured countenance being overspread by an expression of
                        disarmingly innocent penitence.—“It weighed on me. I should be glad to be
                        able to forget it, but now it’s all cropping up again. You see there are
                        these rumours that poor, young Calmady’s gone under very much one way and
                        another, that his health’s broken up altogether, and that he is shut up in
                        two rooms at Brockhurst because—it’s a terribly distressing thing to
                        mention, but that’s the common talk, you know—because he’s a little touched
                        here”—the speaker tapped his smooth and very candid forehead—“a little wrong
                        here! Horrible thing insanity,” he repeated.
                    At this point Dr. Knott, who had been watching first one person and then
                        another present from under his shaggy eyebrows with an air of somewhat harsh
                        amusement, roused himself.
                    “Pardon me, all a pack of lies, my lord,” he said, “and stupid ones into the
                        bargain. Sir Richard Calmady’s as sane as you are yourself.”
                    “Is he, though?” the other exclaimed, brightening sensibly. “Thank you,
                        Knott. It is a very great relief to me to hear that.”
                    “Only a man with a remarkably sound constitution could have pulled round. I
                        quite own he’s been very hard hit, and no wonder. Typhoid and
                        complications”—
                    “Ah! complications?” inquired Lord Fallowfeild, who rarely let slip an
                        opportunity of acquiring information of a pathological description.
                    “Yes, complications. Of the sort that are most difficult to deal with,
                        emotional and moral—beginning with his engagement to Lady Constance”—
                    “Oh, dear me!”—this, piteously, from that lady’s father.
                    “And ending—his Satanic Majesty knows where! I don’t. It’s no concern of
                        mine, nor of anyone else’s in my opinion. He has paid his footing—every man
                        has to pay it sooner or later—to life and experience, and a personal
                        acquaintance with the thou shall not which, for cause unknown,
                        goes for so almighty much in this very queer business of human existence. He
                        has had a rough time, never doubt that, with his high?strung, arrogant,
                        sensitive nature and the dirty trick played on him by that heartless jade, Dame Fortune, before his
                        birth. For the time, this illness had knocked the wind out of him. If he
                        sulks for a bit, small blame to him. But he’ll come round. He is coming
                        round day by day.”
                    As he finished speaking the doctor got on to his feet somewhat awkwardly. His
                        subject had affected him more deeply than he quite cared either to own to
                        himself or to have others see.
                    “That plaguy sciatic nerve again,” he growled.
                    Lord Fallowfeild had risen also.—“Capable man Knott, but rather rough at
                        times, rather too didactic,” he said to himself, as he turned to greet Miss
                        St. Quentin. She had strolled in from the hall. Her charming face was full
                        of merriment. There was something altogether gallant in the carriage of her
                        small head.
                    “I was so awfully glad to see Lord Shotover!” she said, as she gave her hand
                        to that gentleman’s father. “It’s an age since he and I have met.”
                    “Very pleasant hearing, my dear young lady, for Shotover, if he was here to
                        hear it! Lucky fellow Shotover.”—The kindly nobleman beamed upon her. He was
                        nothing if not chivalrous. Mentally, all the same, he was much perplexed.
                        “Of course, I remember who she is. But I understood it was Ludovic,” he said
                        to himself. “Made sure it was Ludovic. Uncommonly attractive, high?bred
                        woman. Very striking looking pair, she and Shotover. Can’t fancy Shotover
                        settled, though. Say she’s a lot of money. Wonder whether it is
                        Shotover?—Uncommonly fine run, best run we’ve had for years,” he added
                        aloud. “Pity you weren’t out, Miss St. Quentin.—Well, good?bye, Mrs.
                        Cathcart. I must be going. I am extremely grateful for all your kindness and
                        hospitality. It is seldom I have the chance of meeting so many friends this
                        side of the country.—Good?day to you, Knott—good?bye, Miss St.
                        Quentin.—Wonder if I’d better ask her to Whitney,” he thought, “on the
                        chance of its being Shotover? Better sound him first, though. Never let a
                        man in for a woman unless you’ve very good reason to suppose he wants
                        her.”
                    Honoria, meanwhile, thrusting her hands into the pockets of her long,
                        fur?lined, tan, cloth driving?coat sat down on the arm of Mary Ormiston’s
                        flowery?patterned, chintz?covered chair.
                    “I left you all in a state of holy peace and quiet,” she said, smiling, “and
                        a fine show you’ve got on hand by the time I come back.”
                    “They ran across the ten?acre field and killed in the shrubbery,” Mrs.
                        Ormiston put in.
                    John Knott limped forward. He stood with his hands behind him looking down at
                        the two ladies. Some months had elapsed
                        since he and Miss St. Quentin had met. He was very fond of the young lady.
                        It interested him to meet her again. Honoria glanced up at him smiling.
                    “Have you been out too?” she asked.
                    “Not a bit of it. I’m too busy mending other people’s brittle anatomy to have
                        time to risk breaking any part of my own. I’m ugly enough already. No need
                        to make me uglier. I came here for the express purpose of calling on
                        you.”
                    “You saw Katherine?” Mary asked.
                    “Oh yes! I saw Cousin Katherine.”
                    “How is she?”
                    “An embodiment of faith, hope, and charity, as usual; but with just that
                        pinch of malice thrown in which gives the compound a flavour. In short, she
                        is enchanting. And then she looks so admirably well.”
                    “That six months at sea was a great restorative,” Mary remarked.
                    “Yet it really is rather wonderful when you consider the state she was in
                        before we went to you at Ormiston, and how frightened we were at her
                        undertaking the journey to Naples.”
                    “Her affections are satisfied,” Dr. Knott said, and his loose lips worked
                        into a smile, half sneering, half tender. “I am an old man, and I have had a
                        good lot to do with women—at second hand. Feed their hearts, and the rest of
                        the mechanism runs easy enough. Anything short of organic disease can be
                        cured by that sort of nourishment. Even organic disease can be arrested by
                        it. And what’s more, I have known disease develop in an apparently perfectly
                        healthy subject simply because the heart was starved. Oh! I tell you, you’re
                        marvellous beings.”
                    “And yet you know I feel so abominably sold,” Honoria declared, “when I
                        consider the way in which we all—Roger, Mr. Quayle, and I—acted bodyguard,
                        attended Cousin Katherine to Naples, wrapped her in cotton wool, dear thing,
                        sternly determined to protect her at all costs and all hazards from—well, I
                        am ashamed to say I had no name bad enough at that time for Richard Calmady!
                        And then this very person, whom we regarded as her probable destruction,
                        proves to be her absolute salvation, while she proceeds to turn the tables
                        upon us in the smartest fashion imaginable. She showed us the door and
                        entreated us, in the most beguiling manner, to return whence we came and
                        leave her wholly at the mercy of the enemy. I was furious”—Miss St. Quentin
                        laughed—“downright furious! And Roger’s temper, for all his high?mightiness,
                        was a thing to swear at, rather than swear by, the morning he and I left
                        Naples. With the greatest difficulty we
                        persuaded her even to keep Clara. She had a rage, dear thing, for getting
                        rid of the lot of us. Oh! we had a royal skirmish and no mistake.”
                    “So Roger told me.”
                    Honoria stretched herself a little, lolled against the back of the chair,
                        steadying herself by laying one hand affectionately on the other woman’s
                        shoulder. And John Knott, observing her, noted not only her nonchalant and
                        almost boyish grace, but a swift change in her humour from light?hearted
                        laughter to a certain, and as he fancied, half?unwilling enthusiasm.
                    “But to?day,” she went on, “when Cousin Katherine told me about it, I confess
                        the whole situation laid hold of me. I could not help seeing it must have
                        been finely romantic to go off like that—those two alone—caring as she
                        cares, and after the long separation. It sounds like a thing in some
                        Elizabethan ballad. There’s a rhythm in it all which stirs one’s blood. She
                        says the yacht’s crew were delightful to her, and treated her as a queen.
                        One can fancy that—the stately, lovely queen?mother, and that strange only
                        son!—They called in at the North African ports, and at Gib and Madeira, and
                        the Cape de Verds, and then ran straight for Rio. Then they steamed up the
                        coast to Pernambuco, and on to the West Indies. Richard never went ashore,
                        Cousin Katherine only once or twice. But they squattered about in the
                        everlasting summer of tropic harbours, fringed with palms and low, dim,
                        red?roofed, tropic houses—just sampled it all, the colour, and light, and
                        beauty, and far?awayness of it—and then, when the fancy took them, got up
                        steam and slipped out again to sea. And the name of the yacht is the
                            Reprieve. That’s in the picture, isn’t it?”
                    Honoria paused. She leaned forward, her chin in her hands, her elbows on her
                        knees. She looked up at John Knott, and there was a singular expression in
                        her clear and serious eyes.
                    “I used to pity Cousin Katherine,” she said. “I used to break my heart over
                        her. And now—now, upon my word, I believe I envy her.—And see here, Dr.
                        Knott, she has asked me to go on to Brockhurst from here. It seems that
                        though Richard refuses to see anyone, except you of course and Julius March,
                        he fusses at his mother being so much alone. What ought I to do? I feel
                        rather uncertain. I have fought him, I own I have. We have never been
                        friends, he and I. He doesn’t like me. He’s no reason to like me—anything
                        but! What do you say? Shall I refuse or shall I go?”
                    And the doctor reflected a little, drawing his great, square hand down over
                        his mouth and heavy, bristly chin.
                    
                    “Yes, go,” he answered. “Go and chance it. Your being at Brockhurst may work
                        out in more of good than we now know.”
                
                
                    CHAPTER V
                    TELLING HOW DICKIE CAME TO UNTIE A CERTAIN TAG OF RUSTY, BLACK
                        RIBBON
                    YET, as those grey, midwinter weeks went on to Christmas, and the
                        coming of the New Year, it became undeniable there was that in the aspect of
                        affairs at Brockhurst which might very well provoke curious comment. For the
                        rigour of Richard Calmady’s self?imposed seclusion, to which Miss St.
                        Quentin had made allusion in her conversation with Dr. Knott, was not
                        relaxed. Rather, indeed, did it threaten to pass from the accident of a
                        first return, after long absence and illness, into a matter of fixed and
                        accepted habit. For those years of lonely wandering and spasmodic rage of
                        living, finding their climax in deepening disappointment, disillusion, and
                        the shock of rudely inflicted insult and disgrace, had produced in Richard a
                        profound sense of alienation from society and from the amenities of ordinary
                        intercourse. Since he was apparently doomed to survive, he would go home;
                        but go home very much as some trapped or wounded beast crawls back to hide
                        in its lair. He was master in his own house, at least, and safe from
                        intrusion there. The place offered the silent sympathy of things familiar,
                        and therefore, in a sense, uncritical. It is restful to look on that upon
                        which one has already looked a thousand times. And so, after his
                        reconciliation with his mother, followed, in natural sequence, his
                        reconciliation with Brockhurst. Here he would see only those who loved him
                        well enough—in their several stations and degrees—to respect his humour, to
                        ask no questions, to leave him to himself. Richard was gentle in manner at
                        this period, courteous, humorous even. But a great discouragement was upon
                        him. It seemed as though some string had snapped, leaving half his nature
                        broken, unresponsive, and dumb. He had no ambitions, no desire of
                        activities. Sport and business were as little to his mind as society.
                    More than this.—At first the excuse of fatigue had served him, but very soon
                        it came to be a tacitly admitted fact that Richard did not leave the house.
                        Surely it was large enough, he said, to afford space for all the exercise he
                        needed? Refusing to occupy his old suite
                        of rooms on the ground?floor, he had sent orders, before his arrival, that
                        the smaller library, adjoining the Long Gallery, should be converted into a
                        bed?chamber for him. It had been Richard’s practice, when on board ship, to
                        steady his uncertain footsteps, on the slippery or slanting plane of the
                        deck, by the use of crutches. And this practice he in great measure
                        retained. It increased his poor powers of locomotion. It rendered him more
                        independent. Sometimes, when secure that Lady Calmady would not receive
                        visitors, he would make his way by the large library, the state
                        drawing?room, and stair?head, to the Chapel?Room and sit with her there. But
                        more often his days were spent exclusively in the Long Gallery. He had
                        brought home many curious and beautiful objects from his wanderings. He
                        would add these to the existing collection. He would examine the books too,
                        procure such volumes as were needed to complete any imperfect series; and,
                        in the departments of science, literature, and travel, bring the library up
                        to date. He would devote his leisure to the study of various
                        subjects—specially natural science—regarding which he was conscious of a
                        knowledge deficient, or merely empirical.
                    “I really am perfectly contented, mother,” he said to Lady Calmady more than
                        once. “Look at the length and breadth of the gallery! It is as a city of
                        magnificent distances, after the deck of the dear, old yacht and my
                        twelve?foot cabin. And I’m not a man calculated to occupy so very much space
                        after all. Let me potter about here with my books and my bibelots. Don’t worry about me, I shall keep
                        quite well, I promise you. Let me hybernate peacefully until the spring,
                        anyhow. I have plenty of occupation. Julius is going to amend the library
                        catalogue with me, and there are those chests of deeds, and order?books, and
                        diaries, which really ought to be looked over. As it appears pretty certain
                        I shall be the last of the family, it would be only civil, I think, to
                        bestow a little of my ample leisure upon my forefathers, and set down some
                        more or less comprehensive account of them and their doings. They appear to
                        have been given to rather dramatic adventures.—Don’t you worry, you dear
                        sweet! As I say, let me hybernate until the birds of passage come and the
                        young leaves are green in the spring. Then, when the days grow long and
                        bright, the sea will begin to call again, and, when it calls you and I will
                        pack and go.”
                    And Katherine yielded, being convinced that Richard could treat his own case
                        best. If healing, complete and radical, was to be effected, it must come
                        from within and not from without. Her
                        wisdom was to wait in faith. There was much that had never been told, and
                        never would be told. Much which had not been explained, and never would be
                        explained. For, notwithstanding the very gracious relation existing between
                        herself and Richard, Katherine realised that there were blank spaces not
                        only in her knowledge of his past action, but in her knowledge of the
                        sentiments which now animated him. As from a far country his mind, she
                        perceived, often travelled to meet hers. “There was a door to which she
                        found no key;” but Katherine, happily, could respect the individuality even
                        of her best beloved. Unlike the majority of her sex she was incapable of
                        intrusion, and did not make affection an excuse for familiarity. Love, in
                        her opinion, enjoins obligations of service, rather than confers rights of
                        examination and direction. She had learned the condition in which his
                        servants had found Richard, in the opera box of the great theatre at Naples,
                        lying upon the floor, unconscious, his face disfigured, cut, and bleeding.
                        But what had produced this condition, whether accident or act of violence,
                        she had not learned. She had also learned that her niece, Helen de
                        Vallorbes, had stayed at the villa just before the commencement of Richard’s
                        illness—he merely passing his days there, and spending his nights on board
                        the yacht in the harbour, where, no doubt, that same illness had been
                        contracted. But she resisted the inclination to attempt further discovery.
                        She even resisted the inclination to speculate regarding all this. What
                        Richard might elect to tell her, that, and that only, would she know, lest,
                        seeking further, bitter and vindictive thoughts should arise in her and mar
                        the calm, pathetic sweetness of the present and her deep, abiding joy in the
                        recovery of her so?long?lost delight. She refused to go behind the fact—the
                        glad fact that Richard once more was with her, that her eyes beheld him, her
                        ears heard his voice, her hands met his. Every little act of thoughtful
                        care, every pretty word of half?playful affection, confirmed her
                        thankfulness and made the present blest. Even this somewhat morbid tendency
                        of his to shut himself away from the observation of all acquaintance,
                        conferred on her such sweetly exclusive rights of intercourse that she could
                        not greatly quarrel with his secluded way of life. As to the business of the
                        estate and household, this had become so much a matter of course to her that
                        it caused her but small labour. If she could deal with it when Richard was
                        estranged and far away, very surely she could deal with it now, when she had
                        but to open the door of that vast, silvery?tinted, pensively fragrant,
                        many?windowed room, and entering, among its many strange and costly
                        treasures, find him—a treasure as strange, and if counted by her past suffering, as costly, as
                        ever ravished and tortured a woman’s heart.
                    And so it came about that, to such few friends as she received, Katherine
                        could show a serene countenance. Shortly before Christmas, Miss St. Quentin
                        came to Brockhurst; and coming stayed, adapting herself with ready tact to
                        the altered conditions of life there. Katherine found not only pleasure, but
                        support, in the younger woman’s presence, in her devoted yet unexacting
                        affection, in her practical ability, and in the sight of so graceful a
                        creature going to and fro. She installed her guest in the Gun?Room suite.
                        And, by insensible degrees, permitted Honoria to return to many of her
                        former avocations in connection with the estate; so that the young lady took
                        over much of the outdoor business, riding forth almost daily, by herself or
                        in company with Julius March, to superintend matters of building or
                        repairing, of road?mending, hedging, copsing, or forestry; and not
                        infrequently cheering Chifney—a somewhat sour?minded man just now and
                        prickly?tempered, since Richard asked no word of him or of his horses—by
                        visits to the racing?stables.
                    “I had better step down and have a crack with the poor old dear, Cousin
                        Katherine,” she would say, “or those unlucky little wretches of boys will
                        catch it double tides, which really is rather superfluous.”
                    And all the while, amid her very varied interests and occupations,
                        remembrance of that hidden, twilight life, going forward upstairs in the
                        well?known rooms which she now never entered, came to Honoria as some
                        perpetually recurrent and mournful harmony, in an otherwise not ungladsome
                        piece of music, might have come. It exercised a certain dominion over her
                        mind; so that Richard Calmady, though never actually seen by her, was never
                        wholly absent from her thought. All the orderly routine of the great house,
                        all the day’s work and the sentiment of it, was subtly influenced by
                        awareness of the actuality of his invisible presence. And this affected her
                        strongly, causing her hours of repulsion and annoyance, and again hours of
                        abounding, if reluctant pity, when the unnatural situation of this man—young
                        as herself, endowed with a fine intelligence, an aptitude for affairs, the
                        craving for amusement common to his age and class—and the pathos inherent in
                        that situation, haunted her imagination. His self?inflicted imprisonment
                        appeared a reflection upon, in a sense a reproach to, her own freedom of
                        soul and pleasant liberty of movement. And this troubled her. It touched her
                        pride somehow. It produced in her a false
                        conscience, as though she were guilty of an unkindness, a lack of
                        considerateness and perfect delicacy.
                    “Whether he behaves well or ill, whether he is good or bad, Richard Calmady
                        invariably takes up altogether too much room,” she would tell herself half
                        angrily—to find herself within half an hour, under plea of usefulness to his
                        mother, warmly interested in some practical matter from which Richard
                        Calmady would derive, at least indirectly, distinct advantage and
                        benefit!
                    This, then, was the state of affairs one Saturday afternoon late in February.
                        With poor Dickie himself the day had been marked by superabundant
                        discouragement. He was well in body. The restfulness of one quiet,
                        uneventful week following another had steadied his nerves, repaired the
                        waste of fever, and restored his physical strength. But along with this
                        return of health had come a growing necessity to lay hold of some idea, to
                        discover some basis of thought, some incentive to action, which should make
                        life less purposeless and unprofitable. Richard, in short, was beginning to
                        generate more energy than he could place. The old order had passed away, and
                        no new order had, as yet, effectively disclosed itself. He had not
                        formulated all this, or even consciously recognised the modification of his
                        own attitude. Nevertheless he felt the gnawing ache of inward emptiness. It
                        effectually broke up the torpor which had held him. It made him very
                        restless. It re?awoke in him an inclination to speculation and
                        experiment.
                    Snow had fallen during the earlier hours of the day, and, the surface of the
                        ground being frost?bound, it, though by no means deep, remained unmelted.
                        The whiteness of it, given back by the ceiling and pale panelling of walls
                        of the Long Gallery, notwithstanding the generous fires burning in the two
                        ornate, high?ranging chimney?places, produced, as the day waned, an effect
                        of rather stark cheerlessness in the great room. This was at once in unison
                        with Richard’s somewhat bleak humour, and calculated to increase the famine
                        of it.
                    All day long he had tried to stifle the cry of that same famine, that same
                        hunger of unplaced energy, by industrious work. He had examined, noted, here
                        and there transcribed, passages from deeds, letters, order?books, and
                        diaries offering first?hand information regarding former generations of
                        Calmadys. It happened that studies he had recently made in contemporary
                        science, specially in obtaining theories of biology, had brought home to him
                        what tremendous factors in the development and fate of the individual are
                        both evolution and heredity. At first idly, and as a mere pastime, then with
                        increasing eagerness—in the vague hope his
                        researches might throw light on matters of moment to himself and of personal
                        application—he had tried to trace out tastes and strains of tendency common
                        to his ancestors. But under this head he had failed to make any very notable
                        discoveries. For these courtiers, soldiers, and sportsmen were united merely
                        by the obvious characteristics of a high?spirited, free?living race. They
                        were raised above the average of the country gentry, perhaps, by a greater
                        appreciation than is altogether common of literature and art. But, as
                        Richard soon perceived, it was less any persistent peculiarity of mental and
                        physical constitution, than a similarity of outward event which united them.
                        The perpetually repeated chronicle of violence and accident which he read,
                        in connection with his people, intrigued his reason, and called for
                        explanation. Is it possible, he began to ask himself, that a certain
                        heredity in incident, in external happening, may not cling to a race? That
                        these may not by some strange process be transmissible, as are traits of
                        character, temperament, of stature, colouring, feature, or face? And if
                        this—as matter of speculation merely—is the case, must there not exist some
                        antecedent cause to which could be referred such persistent effect? Might
                        not an hereditary fate in external events take its rise in some supreme
                        moral or spiritual catastrophe, some violation of law? The Greek dramatists
                        held it was so. The writers of the Old Testament held it was so, too.
                    Sitting at the low writing?table, near the blazing fire, that stark whiteness
                        reflected from off the snow?covered land all around him, Richard debated
                        this point with himself. He admitted the theory was not scientific,
                        according to the reasoning of modern physical science. It approached an
                        outlook theological rather than rationalistic; yet he could not deny the
                        conception, admission. The vision of a doomed family arose before
                        him—starting in each successive generation with brilliant prospects and high
                        hope, only to find speedy extinction in some more or less brutal form of
                        death; a race dwindling, moreover, in numbers as the years passed, until it
                        found representation in a single individual, and that individual maimed and
                        incomplete! Heredity of accident, heredity of disaster, finding final
                        expression in himself—this confronted Richard. He had reckoned himself,
                        heretofore, a solitary example of ill?fortune. But, mastering the contents
                        of these records, he found himself far from solitary. He merely
                        participated, though under a novel form, in the unlucky fate of all the men
                        of his race. And then arose the question—to him, under existing
                        circumstances, of vital importance—what stood behind all that—blind chance,
                        cynical indifference, wanton and arbitrary
                        cruelty, or some august, far?reaching necessity of, as yet, unsatisfied
                        justice?
                    Richard pushed the crackling, stiffly?folded parchments, the letters frayed
                        and yellow with age, the broken?backed, discoloured diaries and order?books,
                        away from him, and sat, his elbows on the table, his forehead in his hands,
                        thinking. And the travail of his spirit was great, as it needs must be, at
                        times, with every human being who dares live at first, not merely at second
                        hand—who dares attempt a real, and not merely a nominal assent—who dares
                        deal with earthly existence, the amazing problems and complexities of it,
                        immediately, refusing to accept—with indolent timidity—tradition, custom,
                        hearsay, convenience, as his guides.—Oh! for some sure answering, some
                        unimpeachable assurance, some revelation not relative and symbolic, but
                        absolute; some declaration above all suspicion of cunningly?devised
                        opportunism, concerning the dealings of the unknown force man calls God,
                        with the animal man calls man!—And then Richard turned upon himself
                        contemptuously. For it was childish to cry out thus. The heavens were dumb
                        above him as the snow?bound earth was dumb beneath. There was no sign. Never
                        had been. Never would be, save in the fond imaginations of religious
                        enthusiasts, crazed by superstition, by austerities and hysteria, duped by
                        ignorance, by hypocrites and quacks.
                    With long?armed adroitness he reached down and picked up those light?made,
                        stunted crutches, slipped from his chair and adjusted them. For a long while
                        he had used them as a matter of course without criticism or thought. But now
                        they produced in him a swift disgust. His hands, grasping the lowest
                        crossbar of them, were in such disproportionate proximity to the floor! For
                        the moment he was disposed to fling them aside. Then again he turned upon
                        himself with scathing contempt. For this too was childish. What did the use
                        of them matter, since, used or not, the fact of his crippled condition
                        remained? And so, with a renewal of bitterness and active rebellion, lately
                        unknown to him, he moved away down the great room—past bronze athlete and
                        marble goddess, past oriental jars, tall as himself, uplifted on the squat,
                        carven, ebony stands, past strangely?painted, half?fearful, lacquer
                        cabinets, past porcelain bowls filled with faint sweetness of dried rose
                        leaves, bay, lavender, and spice, past trophies of savage warfare and,
                        hardly less savage, civilised sport, towards the wide mullion?window of the
                        eastern bay. But just before reaching it, he came opposite to a picture by
                        Velasquez, set on an easel across the corner of the room. It represented a
                        hideous and mis?shapen dwarf, holding a couple of graceful greyhounds in a leash—an unhappy
                        creature who had made sport for the household of some Castilian grandee, and
                        whose gorgeous garments, of scarlet and gold, were ingeniously designed so
                        as to accentuate the physical degradation of its contorted person. Richard
                        had come, of late, to take a sombre pleasure in the contemplation of this
                        picture. The desolate eyes, looking out of the marred and brutal face, met
                        his own with a certain claim of kinship. There existed a tragic free?masonry
                        between himself and this outcasted being, begotten of a common knowledge,
                        and common experience. As a boy Richard hated this picture, studiously
                        avoided the sight of it. It had suggested comparisons which wounded his
                        self?respect too shrewdly and endangered his self?security. He hated it no
                        longer, finding grim solace, indeed, in its sad society.
                    And it was thus, in silent parley with this rather dreadful companion, as the
                        blear February twilight descended upon the bare, black trees and snow?clad
                        land without, and upon the very miscellaneous furnishings of the
                        many?windowed gallery within, that Julius March now discovered Richard
                        Calmady. He had returned, across the park, from one of the ancient
                        brick?and?timber cottages just without the last park gate, at the end of
                        Sandyfield Church?lane. A labourer’s wife was dying, painfully enough, of
                        cancer; and he had administered the Blessed Sacrament to her, there, in her
                        humble bed?chamber. The august promises and adorable consolations of that
                        mysterious rite remained very sensibly present to him on his homeward way.
                        His spirit was uplifted by the confirmation of the divine compassion therein
                        perpetually renewed, perpetually made evident. And, it followed, that to
                        come now upon Richard Calmady alone, here, in the stark, unnatural pallor of
                        the winter dusk, holding silent communion with that long?ago victim of
                        merciless practices and depraved tastes, not only caused him a painful
                        shock, but also moved him with fervid desire to offer comfort and render
                        help. Yet, what to say, how to approach Richard without risk of seeming
                        officiousness and consequent offence, he could not tell. The young man’s
                        experiences and his own were so conspicuously far apart. For a moment he
                        stood uncertain and silent, then he said:—
                    “That picture always fills me with self?reproach.”
                    Richard looked round with a certain lofty courtesy by no means encouraging.
                        And, as he did so, Julius March was conscious of receiving yet another, and
                        not less painful, impression. For Richard’s face was very still, not with
                        the stillness of repose, but with that of fierce emotion held resolutely in
                            check, while in his eyes was a
                        desolation rivalling that of the eyes portrayed by the great Spanish artist
                        upon the canvas close at hand.
                    “When I first came to Brockhurst, that picture used to hang in the study,” he
                        continued, by way of explanation.
                    “Ah! I see, and you turned it out!” Richard observed, not without an
                        inflection of scorn.
                    “Yes. In those days I am afraid I did not discriminate very justly between
                        refinement of taste and self?indulgent fastidiousness. While pluming myself
                        upon an exalted standard of sensibility and sentiment, I rather basely
                        spared myself acquaintance with that, both in nature and in art, which might
                        cause me distress or disturbance of thought. I was a mental valetudinarian,
                        in. short. I am ashamed of my defect of moral courage and charity in
                        relation to that picture.”
                    Richard shifted his position slightly, looked fixedly at the canvas and then
                        down at his own hands in such disproportionate proximity to the floor.
                    “Oh! you were not to blame,” he said. “It is obviously a thing to laugh at,
                        or run from, unless you happen to have received a peculiar mental and
                        physical training. Anyhow, the poor devil has found his way home now and
                        come into port safely enough, at last!”
                    He glanced back at the picture, over his shoulder, as he moved across the
                        room.
                    “Perhaps he’s even found a trifle of genuine sympathy—so don’t vex your
                        righteous soul over your repudiation of him, my dear Julius. The lapses of
                        the virtuous may make, indirectly, for good. And your instinct, after all,
                        was both the healthy and the artistic one. Velasquez ought to have been
                        incapable of putting his talent to such vile uses; and the first comer, with
                        a spark of true philanthropy in him, ought to have knocked that poor little
                        monstrosity on the head.”
                    Richard came to the writing?table, glanced at the papers which encumbered it,
                        made for an arm?chair drawn up beside the fire.
                    “Sit down, Julius,” he said. “There is something quite else about which I
                        want to speak to you.—I have been working through all these documents, and
                        they give rise to speculations neither strictly scientific nor strictly
                        orthodox, yet interesting all the same. You are a dealer in ethical
                        problems. I wonder if you can offer any solution of this one, of which the
                        basis conceivably is ethical. As to these various owners of Brockhurst—Sir
                        Denzil, the builder of the house, is a delightful person, and appears to have prospered mightily in his
                        undertakings, as so liberal?minded and ingenious a gentleman had every right
                        to prosper. But after him—from the time, at least, of his grandson,
                        Thomas—everything—seems to have gone to rather howling grief here. We have
                        nothing but battle, murder, and sudden death. These become positively
                        monotonous in the pertinacity of their repetition. Of course one may argue
                        that adventurous persons expose themselves to an uncommon number of dangers,
                        and consequently pay an uncommon number of forfeits. I daresay that is the
                        reasonable explanation. Only the persistence of the thing gets hold of one
                        rather. The manner of their dying is very varied, yet there are two constant
                        quantities in each successive narrative, namely violence and comparative
                        youth.”
                    Richard’s speech had become rapid and imperative. Now he paused.
                    “Think of my father’s death, for instance,” he said.
                    His narrow, black figure crouched together, Julius March knelt on one knee
                        before the fire. He held his thin hands outspread, so as to keep the glow of
                        the burning logs from his face. He was deeply moved, debating a certain
                        matter with himself.
                    “To all questions supremely worth having answered, there is no answer—I take
                        that for granted,” the young man continued. “And yet one is so made that it
                        is impossible not to go on asking. I can’t help wanting to get at the root
                        of this queer recurrence of accident, and all the rest of it, which clings
                        to my people. I can’t help wanting to make out whether there was any
                        psychological moment which determined the future, and started them
                        definitely on the down?grade. What happened—that’s what I want to arrive
                        at—what happened at that moment? Had it any reasonable and legitimate
                        connection with all which has followed?”
                    As he held them out?spread, between his face and the glowing fire, Julius
                        March’s hands trembled. He found himself confronted by a situation which he
                        had long foreseen, long and earnestly prayed to avoid. The responsibility
                        was so great of either giving or withholding the answer, as he knew it, to
                        that question of Dickie’s. A way of rendering possible help opened before
                        him. But it was a way beset with difficulties, a way at once fantastic and
                        coarsely realistic, a way along which the sublime and the ridiculous jostled
                        each other with somewhat undignified closeness of association, a way
                        demanding childlike faith, not to say childish credulity, coupled with a
                        great fearlessness and self?abnegation before ever a man’s steps could be
                        profitably set in it. If presented to Richard, would he not turn angrily
                        from it as an insult offered to his
                        intellect and his breeding alike? Indeed, the hope of effecting good showed
                        very thin. The danger of provoking evil bulked very big. What was his duty?
                        He suffered an agony of indecision. And again with a slight inflection of
                        mockery in his tone, Richard spoke.
                    “All blind chance, Julius? I declare I get a little weary of this Deity of
                        yours. He neglects His business so flagrantly. He really is rather
                        scandalously much of an absentee. And He would be so welcome if He would
                        condescend to deal a trifle more openly with one, and satisfy one’s
                        intelligence and moral sense. If, for instance, He would afford me some
                        information regarding this same psychological moment which I need so badly
                        just now as a peg to hang a theory of causality upon. I am ambitious—as much
                        in the interests of His reputation as in those of my own curiosity—to get at
                        the logic of the affair, to get at the why and wherefore of it, and lay my
                        finger on the spot where differentiation sets in.”
                    Julius March stood upright. Richard’s scorn hurt him. It also terminated his
                        indecision. For a little space he looked out into the stark whiteness of the
                        snowy dusk, and then down at the young man, leaning back in the low chair,
                        there close before him. To Julius’ short?sighted eyes, in the uncertain
                        light, Dickie’s face bore compelling resemblance to Lady Calmady’s. This
                        touched him with the memory of much, and he went back on the thought of the
                        divine compassion, perpetually renewed, perpetually made evident in the
                        Eucharistic Sacrifice. Man may rail, yet God is strong and faithful to
                        bless. Perhaps that way was neither too fantastic, nor too humble, after
                        all, for Richard to walk in.
                    “Has no knowledge of the received legend about this subject ever reached
                        you?”
                    “No—never—not a word.”
                    “I became acquainted with it accidentally, long ago, before your birth. It is
                        inadmissible, according to modern canons of thought, as such legends usually
                        are. And events, subsequent to my acquaintance with it, conferred on it so
                        singular and painful a significance that I kept my knowledge to myself.
                        Perhaps when you grew up I ought to have put you in possession of the facts.
                        They touch you very nearly.”
                    Richard raised his eyebrows.
                    “Indeed,” he said coldly.
                    “But a fitting opportunity—at least, so I judged, being, I own, backward and
                        reluctant in the matter—never presented itself. In this, as in much else, I
                        fear I have betrayed my trust and proved
                        an unprofitable servant—if so may God forgive me.”
                    “It would have gone hard with Brockhurst without you, Julius,” Richard said,
                        a sudden softening in his tone.
                    “I will bring you the documents the last thing to?night, when—your mother has
                        left you. They are best read, perhaps, in silence and alone.”
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI
                    A LITANY OF THE SACRED HEART
                    RICHARD drew himself up on to the wide, cushioned bench below the
                        oriel?window. The February day was windless and very bright. And although in
                        sheltered, low?lying places, where the frost held, the snow still lingered,
                        in the open it had already disappeared, and that without unsightliness of
                        slush—shrinking and vanishing, cleanly burned up and absorbed by the genial
                        heat. A sabbath?day restfulness held the whole land. There was no movement
                        of labour, either of man or beast. And a kindred restfulness pervaded the
                        house. The rooms were vacant. None passed to and fro. For it so happened
                        that good Mr. Caryll’s successor, the now rector of Sandyfield, had been
                        called away to deliver certain charity sermons at Westchurch, and that
                        to?day Julius March officiated in his stead. Therefore Lady Calmady and Miss
                        St. Quentin, and the major part of the Brockhurst household, had repaired by
                        carriage or on foot to the little, squat, red?brick, Georgian church whose
                        two bells rang out so friendly and fussy an admonition to the faithful to
                        gather within its walls.
                    Richard had the house to himself. And this accentuation of solitude, combined
                        with wider space wherein he could range without fear of observation, was far
                        from unwelcome to him. Last night he had untied the tag of rusty, black
                        ribbon binding together the packet of tattered, dog’s?eared, little
                        chap?books which, for so long, had reposed in the locked drawer of Julius
                        March’s study table beneath the guardianship of the bronze pietà. With very conflicting feelings he had
                        mastered the contents of those same untidy, little volumes, and learned the
                        sordid, and probably fabulous, tale set forth in them in meanest vehicle of
                        jingling verse. Vulgarly told to catch the vulgar ear, pandering to the
                        popular superstitions of a somewhat ignoble age, it proved repugnant
                        enough—as Julius had anticipated— both to
                        Richard’s reason and to his taste. The critical faculty rejected it as an
                        explanation absurdly inadequate. The cause was wholly disproportionate to
                        the effect, as though the mouse should bring forth a mountain instead of the
                        mountain a mouse. At least that was how the matter struck Richard at first.
                        For the story was, after all, as he told himself, but a commonplace of life
                        in every civilised community. Many a man sins thus, and many a woman
                        suffers, and many bastards are yearly born into the world without—perhaps
                        unfortunately—subsequent manifestation of the divine wrath and signal
                        chastisement of the sinner, or of his legitimate heirs, male or female.
                        Affiliation orders are as well known to magistrates’ clerks, as are
                        death?certificates of children bearing the maiden?name of their mother to
                        those of the registrar.
                    All that Richard could dispose of, if with a decent deploring of the
                        frequency of it, yet composedly enough. But there remained that other part
                        of it. And this he could not dispose of so cursorily. His own unhappy
                        deformity, it is true, was amply accounted for on lines quite other than the
                        fulfilment of prophecy, offering, as it did, example of a class of pre?natal
                        accident which, if rare, is still admittedly recurrent in the annals of
                        obstetrics and embryology. Nevertheless, the foretelling of that strange
                        Child of Promise, whose outward aspect and the circumstances of whose
                        birth—as set forth in the sorry rhyme of the chap?book—bore such startling
                        resemblance to his own, impressed him deeply. It astonished, it, in a sense,
                        appalled him. For it came so very near. It looked him so insistently in the
                        face. It laid strong hands on him from out the long past, claiming him,
                        associating itself imperatively with him, asserting, whether he would or no,
                        the actuality and inalienability of its relation to himself. Science might
                        pour contempt on that relation, exposing the absurdity of it both from the
                        moral and physical point of view. But sentiment held other language. And so
                        did that nobler morality which takes its rise in considerations spiritual
                        rather than social and economic; and finds the origins and ultimates alike,
                        not in things seen and temporal, but in things unseen and eternal—things
                        which, though they tarry long for accomplishment, can neither change, nor be
                        denied, nor, short of accomplishment, can pass away.
                    And it was this aspect of the whole, strange matter—the thought, namely, of
                        that same Child of Promise who, predestined to bear the last and heaviest
                        stroke of retributive justice, should, bearing it rightly, bring salvation
                        to his race—which obtained with Richard on the fair Sunday morning in
                        question. It refused to quit him. It affected him through all his being. It
                            appealed to the poetry, the idealism,
                        of his nature—a poetry and idealism not dead, as he had bitterly reckoned
                        them, though sorely wounded by ill?living and by the disastrous issues of
                        his passion for Helen de Vallorbes. He seemed to apprehend the approach of
                        some fruitful, far?ranging, profoundly?reconciling and beneficent event. As
                        in the theatre at Naples when Morabita sang, and, to his fever?stricken,
                        brain?sick fancy the dull?coloured multitude in the parterre murmured, buzzing remonstrant as angry swarming
                        bees, so now a certain exaltation of feeling, exaltation of hope, came upon
                        him.—Yet having grown, through determined rebellion and unlovely experience,
                        not a little distrustful of all promise of good, he turned on himself
                        bitterly enough, asking if he would never learn to profit by hardly?bought,
                        practical knowledge? If he would never contrive to cast the simpleton wholly
                        out of him? He had been fooled many times, fooled there at Naples to the
                        point of unpardonable insult and degradation. What so probable as that he
                        would be fooled again, now?
                    And so, in effort to shake off both the dominion of unfounded hope, and the
                        gnawing ache of inward emptiness which made that hope at once so cruel and
                        so dear, as the sound of wheels dying away along the lime avenue assured him
                        that the goodly company of church?goers had, verily and indeed, departed, he
                        set forth on a pilgrimage through the great, silent house. Passing through
                        the two libraries, the ante?chamber and state drawing?room—with its gilded
                        furniture, fine pictures and tapestries?he reached the open corridor at the
                        stair?head. Here the polished, oak floor, the massive balusters, and tall,
                        carven newel?posts—each topped by a guardian griffin, long of tail,
                        ferocious of beak, and sharp of claw—showed with a certain sober
                        mirthfulness in the pleasant light. For, through all the great windows of
                        the eastern front, the sun slanted in obliquely. While in the Chapel?Room
                        beyond, situated in the angle of the house and thus enjoying a southern as
                        well as eastern aspect, Richard found a veritable carnival of misty
                        brightness; so that he moved across to the oriel?window—whose grey stone
                        mullions and carved transoms showed delicately mellow of tone between the
                        glittering, leaded panes—in a glory of welcoming warmth and sunlight. Frost
                        and snow might linger in the hollows, but here in the open, on the upland,
                        spring surely had already come.
                    With the help of a brass ring, riveted by a stanchion into the space of
                        panelling below the stone window?sill—placed there long ago, when he was a
                        little lad, to serve him in such case as the present—Richard drew himself up
                        on to the cushioned bench. He unfastened
                        one of the narrow, curved, iron?framed casements, and, leaning his elbows on
                        the sill, looked out. The air was mild. The smell of the earth was sweet,
                        with a cleanly, wholesome sweetness. The sunshine covered him. And somehow,
                        whether he would or no, hope reasserted its dominion; and that exaltation of
                        feeling entered into possession of him once again, as he rested, gazing away
                        over the familiar home scene, over this land which, as far as sight carried,
                        had belonged to his people these many generations, and was now his own.
                    Directly below, at the foot of the descending steps of the main entrance, lay
                        the square, red?walled space of gravel and of turf. He looked at it
                        curiously, for there, with the maiming and death of Thomas Calmady’s
                        bastard, if legend said truly, all this tragic history of disaster had
                        begun. There, too, the Clown, racehorse of merry name and mournful memory,
                        had paid the penalty of wholly involuntary transgression just thirty years
                        ago. That last was a rather horrible incident, of which Richard never cared
                        to think. Chifney had told him about it once, in connection with the
                        parentage of Verdigris—had told him just by chance. To think of it, even
                        now, made a lump rise in his throat. Across the turf—offering quaint
                        contrast to those somewhat bloody memories—the peacocks, in all their
                        bravery of royal blue?purple, living green and gold, led forth their
                        sober?clad mates. They had come out from the pepper?pot summer?houses to sun
                        themselves. They stepped mincingly, with a worldly and disdainful grace;
                        and, reaching the gravel, their resplendent trains swept the rounded
                        pebbles, making a small, dry, rattling sound, which, so deep was the
                        surrounding quiet, asserted itself to the extent of saluting Richard’s ears.
                        Beyond the red wall the parallel lines of the elm avenue swept down to the
                        blue and silver levels of the Long Water, the alder copses bordering which
                        showed black?purple, and the reed?beds rusty as a fox, against thin
                        stretches of still unmelted snow. The avenue climbed the farther ascent to
                        the wide archway of the red and grey gate?house, just short of the top of
                        the long ridge of bare moorland. The grass slopes of the park, to the left,
                        were backed by the dark, sawlike edge of the fir forest; and a soft gloom of
                        oak woods, grey?brown and mottled as a lizard’s belly and back, closed the
                        end of the valley eastward. On the right the terraced gardens, with their
                        ranges of glittering conservatories, fell away to the sombre pond in the
                        valley, home of loudly?discoursing companies of ducks. The gentle hillside
                        above was clothed by plantations, and by a grove of ancient beech trees,
                        whose pale, smooth boles stood out from among undergrowth of lustrous
                        hollies and the warm russet of fallen
                        leaves. And over it all brooded the restfulness of the sabbath, and the
                        gladness of a fair and equal light.
                    And the charm of the scene worked upon Richard, not with any heat of
                        excitement, but with a temperate and reasonable grace. For the spirit of it
                        all was a spirit of temperance, of moderation, of secure tranquillity—a
                        spirit stoic rather than epicurean, ascetic rather than hedonic; yet
                        generous, spacious, nobly reasonable, giving ample scope for very sincere,
                        if soberly?clad pleasures, and for activities by no means despicable or
                        unmanly, though of a modest, unostentatious sort. Richard had tried not a
                        few desperate adventures, had conformed his thought and action to not a few
                        glaring patterns, rushing to violences of extreme colour, extreme white and
                        black. All that had proved pre?eminently unsuccessful, a most poisonous
                        harvest of Dead Sea fruit. What, he began to ask himself, if he made an
                        effort to conform it to the pattern actually presented to him—mellow,
                        sun?visited, with the brave red of weather?stained masonry in it, blue and
                        silver of water and sky, lustre of sturdy hollies, as well as the solemnity
                        of leafless woods, finger of frost in the hollows, and bleakness of
                        snow?
                    And, as he sat meditating thus, breathing the clear air, feeling the
                        tempered, yet genial, sun?heat, many questions began to resolve themselves.
                        He seemed to look—as down a long, cloudy vista—beyond the tumult and unruly
                        clamour, the wayward resistance and defiant sinning, the craven
                        complainings, the ever?repeated suspicions and misapprehensions of man, away
                        into the patient, unalterable purposes of God. And looking, for the moment,
                        into those purposes, he saw this also—namely that sorrow, pain, and death
                        are sweet to whosoever dares, instead of fighting with or flying from them,
                        to draw near, to examine closely, to inquire humbly, into their nature and
                        their function. He began to perceive that these three reputed enemies, hated
                        and feared of all men, are, after all, the fashioners and teachers of
                        humanity; to whom it is given to keep hearts pure, godly, and compassionate,
                        to purge away the dross of pride, hardness, and arrogance, to break the iron
                        bands of ambition, self?love, and vanity, to purify by endurance and by
                        charity, welding together—as with the cunning strokes of the
                        master?craftsman’s hammer—the innumerable individual atoms into a corporate
                        whole, of fair form, of supreme excellence of proportion, the image and
                        example of a perfect brotherhood, of a republic more firmly based and more
                        beneficent than even that pictured by the divine Plato himself—since that
                        was consolidated by the exclusion, this by the inclusion and pacification of
                        those three things which men most
                        dread.—Perceived that, without the guiding and chastening of these three
                        lovely terrors, humanity would, indeed, wax wanton, and this world become
                        the merriest court of hell, lust and corruption have it all their own foul
                        way, the flesh triumph, and all bestial things come forth to flaunt
                        themselves gaudily, greedily, without remonstrance and without shame in the
                        light of day.—Perceived, in these three, a Trinity of Holy Spirits, bearing
                        forever the message of the divine mercy and forgiveness.—Perceived how, of
                        necessity, only the Man of Sorrows can truly be the Son of God.
                    And, perceiving all this, Richard’s attitude towards his own unhappy
                        deformity began to suffer modification. The sordid, yet extravagant,
                        chap?book legend no longer outraged either his moral or his scientific
                        sense. He recalled his emotions in the theatre at Naples when Morabita sang,
                        remembering how wholly welcome had then been to him that imagined
                        approaching?act of retributive justice. He recalled, too, the going forth of
                        love towards his supposed executioners which he had experienced, his
                        reverence for, and yearning towards, the dull?coloured working?bees of the
                            parterre. How he had longed to be at
                        one with them, partaker of their corporate action and corporate strength!
                        How he had rejoiced in the conviction that the final issues are subject to
                        their ruling, that the claims of want are stronger than those of wealth,
                        that labour is more honourable than sloth, intelligence more enduring than
                        privilege, liberty more abiding than tyranny, the idea of equality, of
                        fellowship, more excellent than the aristocratic idea, that of born master
                        and of born serf! And both that welcome of the accomplishment of a signal
                        act of justice, and that desire to participate in the eternal strength of
                        the children of labour as against the ephemeral and fictitious strength of
                        the children of idleness and wealth, found strange confirmation in the
                        chap?book legend.
                    For it seemed to Richard that, taking all that singular matter both of
                        prophecy and of cure simply—as believers take some half?miraculous,
                        scripture tale—he had already, in his own person, in right of the physical
                        uncomeliness of it, paid part, at all events, of the price demanded by the
                        Eternal Justice for his ancestors’ sinning and for his own. It was not
                        needful that the bees should swarm and the dull?coloured multitude revenge
                        itself on the indolent, full?fed larvæ peopling the angular honey?cells, as
                        far as he, Richard Calmady, was concerned. That revenge had been taken long
                        ago, in a mysterious and rather terrible manner, before his very birth.
                        While, in the stern denunciation, the adhering curse, of the outraged and
                            so?soon?to?be?childless mother, he
                        found the just and age?old protest, the patient faith in the eventual
                        triumph of the proletariat—of the defenceless poor as against the callous
                        self?seeking and sensuality of the securely buttressed rich. By the fact of
                        his deformity he was emancipated from the delusions of his class; was made
                        one, in right of the suffering and humiliation of it, with the dull?coloured
                        multitudes whose corporate voice declares the ultimate verdict, who are the
                        architects and judges of civilisation, of art, even of religion, even, in a
                        degree, of nature herself. Salvation, according to the sorry yet inspiring
                        rhyme of the chap?book, was contingent upon precisely this recognition of
                        brotherhood with, and practice of willing service towards, all maimed and
                        sorrowful creatures. His America was here or nowhere, his vocation clearly
                        indicated, his work immediate and close at hand.
                    How the Eternal Justice might see fit to deal with other souls, why he had
                        been singled out for so peculiar and conspicuous a fate, Richard did not
                        pretend to say. All that had become curiously unimportant to him. For he had
                        ceased to call that fate a cruel one. It had changed its aspect. It had come
                        suddenly to satisfy both his conscience and his imagination. With a movement
                        at once of wonder and of deep?seated thankfulness, he, for the first time,
                        held out his hands to it, accepting it as a comrade, pledging himself to use
                        rather than to spurn it. He looked at it steadfastly and, so looking, found
                        it no longer abhorrent but of mysterious virtue and efficacy, endued with
                        power to open the gates of a way, closed to most men, into the heart of
                        humanity, which, in a sense, is nothing less than the heart of Almighty God
                        Himself. It was as though, like the saint of old, daring to kiss the scabs
                        and sores of the leper, he found himself gazing on the divine lineaments of
                        the risen Christ. And this brought to him a sense of almost awed repose. It
                        released him from the vicious circle of self, of sharp?toothed
                        disappointment and leaden?heavy discouragement, in which he had so long
                        fruitlessly turned. He seemed consciously to slough off the foul and ragged
                        garment of the past and all its base, unprofitable memories, as the snake
                        sloughs off her old skin in the warm May weather and glides forth,
                        glittering, in a coat of untarnished, silver mail. The whole complexion of
                        his thought regarding his personal disfigurement was changed.
                    Not that he flattered himself the discomfort, the daily vexation and
                        impediment of it, had passed away. On the contrary these very actually
                        remained, and would remain to the end. And the consequences they entailed
                        remained also, the restrictions and deprivations they inflicted. They put
                        many things, dear to every sane and
                        healthy?minded man, hopelessly out of his reach, very much upon the shelf.
                        Love and marriage were shelved thus, in his opinion, let alone lesser and
                        more ephemeral joys. Only the ungrudging acceptance of the denial of those
                        joys, whether small or great, was a vital part of that idea to the evolution
                        of which he now dedicated himself—that Whole which, in process of its
                        evolution, would make for a sober and temperate well?being, formed on the
                        pattern, sober yet nobly spacious, very fair and wholesome, of the
                        sun?visited landscape there without. He had just got to discipline himself
                        into harmony with the idea newly revealed to him. And that, as he told
                        himself, not without a sense of the humour of the situation in certain of
                        its aspects, meant in more than one department, plenty of work!—And he had
                        to spend himself and go on, through good report and ill, through gratitude
                        and, if needs be, through abuse and detraction, still spending himself,
                        actively, untiringly, in the effort to make some one person—it hardly
                        mattered whom, but for choice, those who like himself had been treated
                        unhandsomely by nature or by accident—just a trifle happier day by day.
                    But, while Richard rested thus in the quiet sunshine, he lost count of time.
                        High?noon came and passed, finding and leaving him in absorbed contemplation
                        of his own thought. At last a barking of dogs, and the sound of wheels away
                        on the north side of the house, broke up the silence. Then a faint echo of
                        voices, a boy’s laughter in the great hall below. Then footsteps, which he
                        took to be Lady Calmady’s, coming lightly up the grand staircase. At the
                        stair?head those footsteps paused for a little space, as though in
                        indecision whither to turn. And Richard, pushed by an impulse of
                        considerateness somewhat, it must be owned, new to him, called:—
                    “Mother, is that you? Do you want me? I’m here.”
                    Whereat the footsteps came forward, in at the open door and through the soft
                        glory of the all?pervading sunshine, with an effect of gentle urgency and
                        haste. Katherine’s grey, silk pelisse was unfastened, showing the grey, silk
                        gown, its floating ribbons, pretty frills and flounces, beneath. Every
                        detail of her dress was very fresh and very finished, a demure daintiness in
                        it, from the topmost, grey plume and upstanding, velvet bow of her bonnet to
                        the pretty shoes upon her feet. Along with a lace handkerchief and her
                        church books, she carried a bunch of long?stalked violets. Her face was
                        delicately flushed, a great surprise, touching upon anxiety, tempering the
                        quick pleasure of her expression.
                    “My dearest,” she said, “this is as delightful as it is unexpected. What
                        brings you here?”
                    
                    And Richard smiled at her without reserve, no longer as though putting a
                        force upon himself or of set purpose, but naturally, spontaneously, as one
                        who entertains pleasant thoughts. He took her hand and kissed it with a
                        certain courtliness and reverent fervour.
                    “I came to look for something here,” he said, “which I have looked for many
                        times and in very various places, yet never somehow managed to find.”
                    But Katherine, at once tenderly charmed and rendered yet more anxious by a
                        quality in his manner and his speech unfamiliar to her, the purport of which
                        she failed at once to gauge, answered him literally.
                    “My dearest, why didn’t you tell me? I would have looked for it before I went
                        to church, and saved you the trouble of the journey from the gallery
                        here.”
                    “Oh! the journey wasn’t bad for me, I rather enjoyed it,” Dickie said. “And
                        then to tell you the truth, you’ve spent the better part of your dear life
                        in looking for that same something which I could never manage to find! Poor
                        sweet mother, no thanks to me, so far, that you haven’t utterly worn
                        yourself out in the search for it.”—He paused, and gazed away out of the
                        open casement.—“But I have a good hope that’s all over and done with now,
                        and that at last I’ve found the thing myself.”
                    And Katherine, still charmed, still anxious, looked down at him wondering,
                        for there was a perceptible under?current of emotion beneath the lightness
                        of his speech.
                    “However, all that will keep,” he continued.—“How did you enjoy your church?
                        Did dear old Julius distinguish himself? How did he preach?”
                    And Katherine, still wondering, again answered literally.
                    “Very beautifully,” she said, “with an unusual force and pathos. He took the
                        congregation not a little by storm. He fairly carried us away. He was
                        eloquent, and that with a simplicity which made one question whether he did
                        not speak out of some pressing personal experience.”—Katherine’s manner was
                        touched by a pretty edge of pique.—“Really I believed I knew all about
                        Julius and his doings by this time, but it seems I don’t! I think I must
                        find out. It would vex me that anything should happen in which he needed
                        sympathy, and that I did not offer it.—His subject was the answer to prayer
                        and the fulfilment of prophecy—and how both come, come surely and directly,
                        yet often in so different a form to that which, in our narrowness of vision
                        and dulness of sense, we anticipate, that we fail to recognise either the
                        answer or the fulfilment; and so miss the
                        blessing they must needs bring, and which is so richly, so preciously, ours
                        if we had but the wit to understand and lay hold of it.”
                    Whereupon Richard smiled again.
                    “Yes,” he said, “very probably Julius did speak out of personal experience,
                        or rather vicarious experience. However, I don’t think he need worry this
                        time, at least I hope not. The answer to prayer and fulfilment of prophecy,
                        when they’re good enough to come along, don’t always get the cold
                        shoulder.”—Then his expression changed, hardened a little, his lips growing
                        thin and his jaw set.—“Look here, mother,” he added, “I think perhaps I have
                        been rather playing the fool lately, since we came home. I propose to take
                        to the ordinary habits of civilised, christian man again. If it doesn’t
                        bother you, would you kindly let the servants know that I’m coming down to
                        luncheon?”
                    “Oh! my dearest, how stupid of me, I’m so grieved!” Katherine cried. She sat
                        down beside him on the cushioned bench, dropping service books,
                        handkerchief, and violets, in the extremity of her gentle and apologetic
                        distress.—“It never occurred to me that you might like to come down. The
                        Newlands people came over to church, and I brought Mary and the two boys
                        back. Godfrey is over from Eton for the Sunday, and little Dick has had a
                        cold and has not gone back to school yet. What can we do? It would be so
                        lovely to have you, and yet I don’t quite know how I can send them away
                        again.”
                    “But why on earth should they be sent away?” Richard said, touched and amused
                        by her earnestness. “Mary’s always a dear. And I’ve been thinking lately I
                        shouldn’t mind seeing something of that younger boy. He is my godson, isn’t
                        he? And Knott tells me he is curiously like you and Uncle Roger. You see
                        it’s about time to select an heir?apparent for Brockhurst. Luckily I’ve a
                        free hand. My life’s the last in the entail.”
                    Then, looking at him, Lady Calmady’s lips trembled a little. Health had
                        returned and with it his former good looks, but matured, spiritualised, as
                        it seemed to her just now. The livid line of the scar had died out too, and
                        was nearly gone. And all this, taken in connection with his words just
                        uttered, affected her to so great and poignant a love, so great and poignant
                        a fear of losing him, that she dared not trust herself to make any comment
                        on those same words lest the flood?gates of emotion should be opened and she
                        should lose her self?control.
                    “Very well, Dickie,” she said, bowing her head.—Then she added quickly, with a little gasp of renewed
                        distress and apology:—“But—but, oh! dear me, Honoria is here too!”
                    Whereat Richard laughed outright. He could not help it, she was so vastly
                        engaging in her distress.
                    “All right,” he said, “I am equal to accepting Honoria St. Quentin into the
                        bargain. In short, mother dear, I take over the lot; and if anybody else
                        turns up between now and two o’clock I’ll take them over as well.—Why, why,
                        you dear sweet, don’t look so scared! There’s nothing to trouble about. I’m
                        not too good to live, never fear. On the contrary, I am prepared to do quite
                        a fine amount of living—only on new and more modest lines perhaps. But we
                        won’t talk about that just yet, please. We’ll wait to give it a name until
                        we’re a little more sure how it promises to work out.”
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII
                    WHEREIN TWO ENEMIES ARE SEEN TO CRY QUITS
                    GODFREY ORMISTON scudded along the terrace, past the dining?room
                        windows, at the top of his speed, and Miss St. Quentin followed him at a
                        hardly less unconventional pace. Together they burst, by the small, arched
                        side?door, into the lobby. There ensued discussion lively though brief.
                        Then, Winter setting wide the dining?room door in invitation, sight of
                        Honoria was presented to the company assembled within.—She, in brave attire
                        of dark, red cloth, black braided and befrogged, heavy, silk cords and
                        knotted, dangling tassels,—head?gear to match, dark red and black, a tall,
                        stiff aigrette set at the side of it,—in all producing a something
                        delightfully independent, soldierly, ruffling even, in her aspect, as she
                        pushed the black?haired, bright?faced, slim?made lad, her two hands on his
                        shoulders, before her into the room.
                    “May we come to luncheon as we are, Cousin Katherine?” she cried. “We’re
                        scandalously late, but we’re also most ferociously hungry and”—
                    But here, although Lady Calmady turned on her a welcoming and far from
                        unjoyful countenance, she stopped dead; while Godfrey incontinently gave
                        vent to that which his younger brother—sitting beside his mother, Mary
                        Ormiston, at table, on Richard Calmady’s right—described mentally as “the
                        most awful squawk.” Which squawk, it may be added,—whatever its effect upon other members of the company,—as
                        denoting involuntary and unceremonious descent from the high places of
                        thirteen?year?old, public?school omniscience on the part of his elder,
                        produced in eight?year?old Dick Ormiston such over?flowings of unqualified
                        rapture that, for a good two minutes, he had to forego assimilation of
                        chocolate soufflet, and, slipping his
                        hands beneath the table, squeeze them together just as hard as ever he could
                        with both knees, to avoid disgracing himself by emission of an ecstatic
                        giggle. For once he had got the whip hand of Godfrey!—Having himself, for
                        the best part of an hour now, been conversant with interesting developments,
                        he found it richly diverting to behold his big brother thus incontinently
                        bowled over by sudden disclosure of them. He repressed the giggle, with the
                        help of squeezing knees and a certain squirming all down his neat, little
                        back; but his blue eyes remained absolutely glued to Godfrey’s person, as
                        the latter, recovering his presence of mind and good manners, proceeded
                        solemnly up to the head of the table to greet his unlooked?for host.
                    Honoria, meanwhile, if guiltless of an audible squawk, had been—as she
                        subsequently reflected—potentially, alarmingly capable of some such
                        primitive expression of feeling. For the shock of surprise which she
                        suffered was so forcible, that it induced in her an absurd unreasoning
                        instinct of flight. Indeed, that had happened, or rather was in process of
                        happening, which revolutionised all her outlook. For that the unseen
                        presence, consciousness of which had come to be so constant a quantity in
                        her action and her thought, should thus declare itself in visible form, be
                        materialised, become concrete, and that instantly, without prologue or
                        preparation, projecting itself wholesale, so to speak, into the comfortable
                        commonplaces of a Sunday luncheon—after her slightly uproarious race home
                        with a perfectly normal schoolboy, from morning church too—affected her much
                        as sudden intrusion of the supernatural might. It modified all existing
                        relations, introducing a new and, as yet, incalculable element. Nor had she
                        quite realised what power the unseen Richard Calmady, these many years, had
                        exercised over her imagination, until Richard Calmady seen, was there
                        evident, actually before her. Then all the harsh judgments she had passed
                        upon him, all the disapproval of, and dislike she had felt towards, him,
                        flashed through her mind. And that matter too of his cancelled
                        engagement!—The last time she had seen him was in the house in Lowndes
                        Square, on the night of Lady Louisa Barking’s great ball, standing—she could
                        see all that now—it was as if photographed upon her brain—always would
                        be—and it turned her a little
                        sick.—Nevertheless it was impossible to pause any longer. It would be
                        ridiculous to fly, so she must stick it out. That best of good Samaritans,
                        Mary Ormiston, began talking to Julius March across the length of the
                        table.
                    “Oh dear, yes, of course,” she was saying. “But I never realised she was a
                        sister of your old Oxford friend. I wish I had. It would have been so
                        pleasant to talk about you and about home in that far country! Her husband
                        is in the Rifle Brigade, and she really is a nice, dear woman. I saw a great
                        deal of her while we were at the Cape.”
                    And so, under cover of Mary’s kindly conversation, Miss St. Quentin settled
                        down into her lazy, swinging stride. Her small head carried high, her pale,
                        sensitive face very serious, her straight eyebrows drawn together by
                        concentration of purpose, concentration of thought, she followed the boy up
                        the long room.
                    As she came towards him, Richard Calmady looked full at her. His head was
                        carried somewhat high too. His face was very still. His eyes—with those
                        curiously small pupils to them—were very observant, in effect hiding rather
                        than revealing his thought. His manner, as he held out his hand to her, was
                        courteous, even friendly; and yet, notwithstanding her high and fearless
                        spirit, Honoria—for the first time in her life probably—felt afraid. And
                        then she began to understand how it came about that, whether he behaved well
                        or ill, whether he was good or bad, cruel or kind, seen or unseen even,
                        Richard, of necessity, could not but occupy a good deal of space in the
                        lives of all persons brought into close contact with him. For she recognised
                        in him a rather tremendous creature, self?contained, not easily accessible,
                        possessed of a larger portion than most men of energy and resolution,
                        possessed too—and this, as she thought of it, again turned her a trifle
                        sick—of an unusual capacity of suffering.
                    “I am ashamed of being so dreadfully late,” she said as she slipped into the
                        vacant place on his left, Godfrey Ormiston was beyond her, next to Julius
                        March.—Honoria was aware that her voice sounded slightly shaky, in part from
                        her recent scamper, in part from a queer emotion which seemed to clutch at
                        her throat.—“ But we walked home over the fields and by the Warren, and just
                        in that boggy bit where you cross the Welsh?road, Godfrey found the slot of
                        a red?deer in the snow, and naturally we both had to follow it up.”
                    “Naturally,” Richard said.
                    “I’m not so sure it was a red?deer, Honoria,” the boy broke in.
                    
                    “Oh yes, it was,” she declared as she helped herself to a cutlet. “It
                        couldn’t have been anything else.”
                    “Why not?” Richard asked. He was interested by the tone of assurance in which
                        she spoke.
                    “Oh, well, the tracks were too big for a fallow?deer to begin with. And then
                        there’s a difference, you can’t mistake it if you’ve ever compared the two,
                        in the cleft of the hoof.”
                    “And you have compared the two?”
                    “Oh, certainly,” Honoria answered.—She was beginning to recover her
                        nonchalance of manner and indolent slowness of speech. “I lose no
                        opportunity of acquiring odds and ends of information. One never knows when
                        they may come in handy.”
                    She looked at him as she spoke, and her upper lip shortened and her eyes
                        narrowed into a delightful smile—a smile, moreover, which had the faintest
                        trace of an asking of pardon in it. And it struck Richard that there was in
                        her expression and bearing a transparent sincerity, and that her eyes—now
                        narrowed as she smiled—were not the clear, soft brown they appeared at a
                        distance to be, but an indefinable colour, comparable only to the dim, yet
                        clear, green gloom which haunts the under?spaces of an ilex grove upon a
                        summer day. He turned his head rather sharply. He did not want to think
                        about matters of that sort. He was grateful to this young lady for the
                        devoted care she had bestowed on his mother; but, otherwise, her presence
                        was only a part of that daily discipline which must be cheerfully undertaken
                        in obedience to the exigencies of his new and fair idea.
                    “Probably it is a deer that has broken out of Windsor Great Park and
                        travelled,” he said. “They do that sometimes, you know.”
                    But here small Dick Ormiston, whose spirits, lately pirouetting on giddy
                        heights of felicity, had suffered swift declension bootwards at mention of
                        this thrilling adventure in which he, alas, had neither lot nor part,
                        projected himself violently into the conversational arena.
                    “Mother,” he piped, his words tumbling one over the other in his
                        eagerness—“Mother, I expect it’s the same deer that grandpapa was talking
                        about when Lord Shotover came over to tea last Friday, and wanted to know if
                        Honoria wasn’t back at Newlands again. And then he and grandpapa yarned,
                        don’t you know. Because, Cousin Richard—it must have been while you were
                        away last year—the buckhounds met at Bagshot and ran through Frimley and
                        right across Spendle Flats ”—
                    “No, they didn’t, Cousin Richard,” Godfrey interrupted. “They ran through the
                        bottom of Sandyfield Lower Wood.”
                    
                    “But they lost—any way they lost, Cousin Richard,” the younger boy
                        cried.—“You weren’t there, Godfrey, so you can’t know what grandpapa said.
                        He said they lost somewhere just into Brockhurst, and he told Lord Shotover
                        how they beat up the country for nearly a week, and how they never found it,
                        and had to give it up as a bad job and go home again. And—and—Lord Shotover
                        said, rotten bad sport, stag?hunting, unless you get it on Exmoor, where
                        they’re not carted and they don’t saw their antlers off. He said meets of
                        the buckhounds ought to be called Stockbrokers’ Parade, that was about all
                        they amounted to. And so, Cousin Richard, I think—don’t you, mother?—that
                        this must be that same deer.”
                    Whereat the elder Dick’s expression, which had grown somewhat dark at the
                        mention of Lord Shotover, brightened sensibly again. And, for cause unknown,
                        he looked at Honoria, smiling amusedly, before saying to the very voluble,
                        small sportsman:—
                    “To be sure, Dick. Your arguments are unanswerable, convincingly sound. No
                        reasonable man could have a doubt about it! Of course it’s the same
                        deer.”
                    Thereupon the luncheon went forward gaily enough, though Miss St. Quentin was
                        conscious her contributions to the cultivation of that same gaiety were but
                        spasmodic. She dreaded the conclusion of the meal, fearing lest then she
                        might be called upon to behold Richard Calmady once again, as she had beheld
                        him—now nearly six years ago—in the half?dismantled house in Lowndes Square,
                        on the night of Lady Louisa Barking’s ball. And from that she shrank, not
                        with her former physical repulsion towards the man himself, but with the
                        moral repulsion of one compelled against his will to gaze upon a pitifully
                        cruel sight, the suffering of which he is powerless to lessen or amend. The
                        short, light?made crutches, lying on the floor by the young man’s chair,
                        shocked her as the callous exhibition of some unhappy prisoner’s
                        shackling?irons might. It constituted an indignity offered to the Richard
                        sitting here beside her, so much as to think of, let alone look at, that
                        same Richard when on foot. Therefore it was with an oddly mingled relief and
                        sense of playing traitor, that she rose with the rest of the little company
                        and left him by himself. She was thankful to escape, though all the while
                        her inherent loyalty tormented her with accusation of meanness, as of one
                        who deserts a comrade in distress.
                    But here the small Dick, to whom such complex refinements of sensibility were
                        as yet wholly foreign, created a diversion by prancing round from the far
                        side of the table and forcibly seizing her
                        hand. He was jealous of the large share Godfrey had to?day secured of her
                        society. He meant to have his innings. So he rubbed his curly head against
                        her much braided elbow, butting her lovingly in the exuberance of his
                        affection as some nice, little ram?lamb might. But just as they reached the
                        door, through which Lady Calmady and the rest of the party had already
                        passed, the boy drew up short.
                    “I say, hold on half a minute, Honoria, please,” he said.
                    And then, turning round, his cheeks red as peonies, he marched back to where
                        Richard sat alone at the head of the table.
                    “In case—in case, don’t you know,” he began, stuttering in the excess of his
                        excitement—“in case, Cousin Richard, mummy didn’t quite take in what you
                        said at the beginning of luncheon—you did mean for really that I was to come
                        and stay here in the summer holidays, and that you’d take me out, don’t you
                        know, and show me your horses?”
                    And to Honoria, glancing at them, there was a singular, and almost tragic,
                        comment on life in the likeness, yet unlikeness, of those two faces—the
                        features almost identical, the same blue eyes, the two heads alike in shape,
                        each with the same close?fitted, bright?brown cap of hair. But the boy’s
                        face flushed, without afterthought or qualification of its eager happiness;
                        the man’s colourless, full of reserve, almost alarmingly self?contained and
                        still.
                    Yet, when the elder Richard’s answer came, it was altogether gentle and
                        kindly.
                    “Yes, most distinctly for really, Dick,” he said. “Let there be
                        no mistake about it. Let it be clearly understood I want to have you here
                        just as long, and just as often, as your mother and father will spare you.
                        I’ll show you the horses, never fear, and let you ride them too.”
                    “A—a—a real big one?”
                    “Just as big a one as you can straddle.” Richard paused.—“And I’ll show you
                        other things, if all goes well, which I’m beginning to think—and perhaps
                        you’ll think so too some day—are more important even than horses.”
                    He put his hand under the boy’s chin, tipped up the ruddy, beaming, little
                        face and kissed it.
                    “It’s a compact,” he said.—“Now cut along, old chap. Don’t you see you’re
                        keeping Miss St. Quentin waiting?”
                    Whereupon the small Richard started soberly enough, being slightly impressed
                        by something—he knew not quite what—only that it made him feel awfully fond,
                        somehow, of this newly dis? covered cousin
                        and namesake. But, about half?way down the room, that promise of a horse, a
                        thorough?bred, and just as big as he could straddle, swept all before it,
                        rendering his spirits uncontrollably explosive. So he made a wild rush and
                        flung himself headlong upon the waiting Honoria.
                    “Oh! you want to bear?fight, do you? Two can play at that game,” she cried,
                        “you young rascal!”
                    Then, without apparent effort or diminution of her lazy grace, the elder
                        Richard saw her pick the boy up by his middle, and, notwithstanding
                        convulsive wrigglings on his part, throw him across her shoulder and bear
                        him bodily away through the lobby, into the hall, and out of sight.
                    Hence it fell out that not until quite late that evening did the moment so
                        dreaded by Miss St. Quentin actually arrive. In furtherance of delay she
                        practised a diplomacy not altogether flattering to her self?respect, coming
                        down rather late for dinner, and retiring immediately after that meal to the
                        Gun?Room, under plea of correspondence which must be posted at Farley in
                        time for to?morrow’s day mail. She was even late for prayers in the chapel,
                        so that, taking her accustomed place next to Lady Calmady in the last but
                        one of the stalls upon the epistle?side, she found all the members of the
                        household, gentle and simple alike, already upon their knees. The household
                        mustered strong that night, a testimony, it may be supposed, to feudal as
                        much as to religious feeling. In the seats immediately below her were an
                        array of women?servants, declining from the high dignities of Mrs. Reynolds
                        the housekeeper, the faithful Clara, and her own lanky and loyal
                        North?Country woman Faulstich, to a very youthful scullery?maid, sitting
                        just without the altar rails at the end of the long row. Opposite were not
                        only Winter, Bates the steward, Powell, Andrews, and the other men?servants;
                        but Chaplin, heading a detachment from the house stables, and—unexampled
                        occurrence!—Gnudi the Italian chef, with
                        his air of gentle and philosophic melancholy and his anarchic sentiments in
                        theology and politics, liable,—these last,—when enlarged on, to cause much
                        fluttering in the dove?cot of the housekeeper’s room. “To hear Signor Gnudi
                        talk sometimes made your blood run cold. It seemed as if you couldn’t be
                        safe anywhere from those wicked foreign barricades and massacres,” as Clara
                        put it. And yet, in point of fact, no milder man ever larded a woodcock or
                        stuffed it with truffles.
                    Alone, behind all these, in the first of the row of stalls with their carven
                        spires and dark?vaulted canopies, sat Richard Calmady, whom all his people
                        had thus come forth silently to welcome.
                        But, through prayer and psalm and lesson, as Miss St. Quentin noted, he
                        remained immoveable, to her almost alarmingly cold and self?concentrated.
                        Only once he turned his head, leaning a little forward and looking towards
                        the purple, and silver, and fair, white flowers of the altar, and the clear
                        shining of the altar lights,
                    —“Then shall the righteous answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee an
                        hungered, and fed thee? or thirsty and gave thee drink? When saw we thee a
                        stranger, and took thee in? or naked and clothed thee? Or when saw we thee
                        sick, or in prison, and came unto thee? And the King shall answer and say
                        unto them, Verily I say unto you, inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of
                        the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me.”
                    The words were given out by Julius March, not only with an exquisite
                        distinctness of enunciation, but with a ring of assurance, of sustaining and
                        thankful conviction. Richard leaned back in his stall again, looking across
                        at his mother. While Honoria, taken with a sensitive fear of inquiring into
                        matters not rightfully hers to inquire into, hastily turned her eyes upon
                        her open prayer?book. They must have many things to say to one another, that
                        mother and son, as she divined, to?day,—far be it from her to attempt to
                        surprise their confidence!
                    She rose from her knees, cutting her final petitions somewhat short, directly
                        the last of the men?servants had filed out of the chapel; and, crossing the
                        Chapel?Room, a tall, pale figure in her trailing, white, evening dress, she
                        pulled back the curtain of the oriel?window, opened one of the curved,
                        many?paned casements and looked out. She was curiously moved, very sensible
                        of a deeper drama going forward around her, going forward in her own
                        thought—subtly modifying and transmuting it—than she could at present either
                        explain or place. The night was cloudy and very mild. A soft, sobbing,
                        westerly wind, with the smell of coming rain in it, saluted her as she
                        opened the casement. The last of the frost must be gone, by now, even in the
                        hollows; the snow wholly departed also. The spring, though young and feeble
                        yet, puling like some ailing baby?child in the voice of that
                        softly?complaining, westerly wind, was here, very really present at last.
                        Honoria leaned her elbows on the stone window?ledge. Her heart went out in
                        strong emotion of tenderness towards that moist wind which seemed to cry, as
                        in a certain homelessness, against her bare arms and bare neck.—“Inasmuch as
                        ye did it unto one of the least of these my brethren”—
                    
                    But just then Katherine Calmady called to her, and that in a sweet, if rather
                        anxious, tone.
                    “Honoria, dear child, come here,” she said. “Richard is putting me through
                        the longer catechism regarding those heath fires in August last year, and
                        the state of the woods.”
                    Then, as the young lady approached her, Lady Calmady laid one hand on her
                        arm, looking up in quick and loving appeal at the serious and slightly
                        troubled face.
                    “My answers only reveal the woful greatness of my ignorance. My geography has
                        run mad. I am planting forests in the midst of cornfields, so Dickie assures
                        me; and making hay generally—as you, my dear, would say—of the map.”
                    Still her eyes dwelt upon Honoria’s in insistent and loving appeal.
                    “Come,” she said, “explain to him, and save me from further exposition of my
                        own ignorance.”
                    Thus admonished the young lady sat down on the low sofa beside Richard
                        Calmady. As she did so Katherine rose and moved away. Honoria determined to
                        see only the young man’s broad shoulders, his irreproachable dress clothes,
                        his strangely still and very handsome face. But, since there was no
                        concealing rug to cover them, it was impossible that she should long avoid
                        also seeing his shortened and defective limbs and oddly shod feet. And at
                        that she winced and shrank a little, for all her high spirit and inviolate,
                        maidenly strength.
                    “Oh yes! those fires!” she said hurriedly. “There were several—you remember,
                        Cousin Katherine?—or I daresay you don’t, for you were ill at the time. But
                        the worst was on Spendle Flats. You know that long, three?cornered bit”—she
                        looked Richard bravely in the face again—“which lies between the Portsmouth
                        Road and our cross?road to Farley? It runs into a point just at the top of
                        Star Hill.”
                    “Yes, I know,” Dickie said.
                    He had seen her wince.—Well, that wasn’t wonderful! She could not very well
                        do otherwise, if she had eyes in her head. He did not blame her. And then,
                        though it was not easy to do so with entire serenity, this was precisely one
                        of those small unpleasant incidents which, in obedience to his new code, he
                        was bound to accept calmly, good?temperedly, just as part of the day’s work,
                        in fact. He had done with malingering. He had done with the egoism of
                        sulking and hiding—even to the extent of a couvre?pieds. All right, here it was!—Richard settled his
                        shoulders squarely against the straight, stuffed back of the Chippendale
                        sofa, and talked on.
                    
                    “It’s a pity that bit is burnt,” he said. “I haven’t been over that ground
                        for nearly six years, of course. But I remember there were very good trees
                        there—a plantation at the top end, just before you come to the big
                        gravel?pits, and the rest self?sown. Are they all gone?”
                    “Licked as clean as the back of your hand,” Honoria, replied, warming to her
                        subject. “They hardly repaid felling for firewood. It made me wretched. Some
                        idiot threw down a match, I suppose. There had been nearly a month’s
                        drought, and the whole place was like so much tinder. There was an easterly
                        breeze too. You can imagine the blaze! We hadn’t the faintest chance. Poor,
                        old Iles lost his head utterly, and sat down with his feet in a dry ditch
                        and wept. There must be over two hundred acres of it. It’s a dreadful
                        eyesore, perfectly barren and useless, but for a little sour grass even a
                        gipsy’s donkey has to be hard up before he cares to eat!”—Miss St. Quentin
                        shifted her position with a certain impatience. “I can’t bear to see the
                        land doing no work,” she said.
                    “Doing no work?” Dickie inquired. He began to be interested in the
                        conversation from other than a purely practical and local standpoint.
                    “Of course,” she asserted. “The land has no more right to lie idle than any
                        of the rest of us—unless it’s a bit of tilth sweetening in fallow between
                        two crops. That is reasonable enough. But for the rest,” she said, a certain
                        brightness and self?forgetting gaining on her—“let it contribute its share
                        all the while, like an honest citizen of the universe. Let it work, most
                        decidedly let it work.”
                    “And what about such trifles as the few hundred square miles of desert or
                        mountain range?” Richard inquired, half amused, half, and that rather
                        unwillingly, charmed. “They are liable to be a thorn in the side of
                        the—well, socialist.”
                    “Oh, I’ve no quarrel with them. They come under a different head.”—Honoria’s
                        manner had ceased to be in any degree embarrassed, though a slight
                        perplexity came into her expression. For just then she remembered, somehow,
                        her pacings of the station platform at Culoz, the salutation of the bleak,
                        pure, evening wind from out the fastnesses of the Alps, and all her
                        conversation there with her faithful admirer, Ludovic Quayle. And it
                        occurred to her what singular contrast in sentiment that bleak, evening wind
                        offered to the mild, moist, westerly wind?complaint of the homeless baby,
                        Spring—which had just now cried against her bosom!—And again Honoria became
                        conscious of being in contact, both in. herself and in her surround? ings, with more coercing, more vital
                        drama than she could either interpret or place. Again something of fear
                        invaded her, to combat which she hurried into speech.—“No, I haven’t any
                        quarrel with deserts and so on,” she repeated. “They’re uncommonly useful
                        things for mankind to knock its head against—invincible, unnegotiable,
                        splendidly competent to teach humanity its place. You see we’ve grown not a
                        little conceited—so at least it seems to me—on our evolutionary journey up
                        from the primordial cell. We’re too much inclined to forget we’ve developed
                        soul quite comparatively recently, and therefore that there is probably just
                        as long a journey ahead of us—before we reach the ultimate of intellectual
                        and spiritual development—as there is behind us physically from, say the
                        parent ascidian, to you and me. And—and somehow”—Honoria’s voice had become
                        full and sweet, and she looked straight at Dickie with a rare candour and
                        simplicity—“somehow those big open spaces remind one of all that. They drive
                        one’s ineffectualness home on one. They remind one that environment, that
                        mechanical civilisation, all the short cuts of applied science, after all
                        count for little and inevitably come to the place called stop.
                        And that braces one. It makes one the more eager after that which lies
                        behind the material aspects of things, and to which these merely act as a
                        veil.”
                    Honoria had bowed herself together. Her elbows were on her knees, her chin in
                        her two hands, her charming face alight with a pure enthusiasm. And Richard
                        watched her curiously. His acquaintance with women was fairly comprehensive,
                        but this woman represented a type new to his experience. He wanted to
                        tolerate her merely, to regard her as an element in his scheme of
                        self?discipline. And it began to occur to him that, from some points of
                        view, she knew as much about all that, as much about the idea inspiring it,
                        as he did. He leaned himself back in the angle of the sofa, and clasped his
                        hands behind his head.
                    “All the same,” he said, “I am afraid those burnt acres on Spendle Flats are
                        hardly extensive enough to afford an object for me to knock my head against,
                        and so enforce salutary remembrance of the limitations of human science.
                        Possibly that has already been sufficiently brought home to me in other
                        ways.”
                    He paused a minute.
                    Honoria straightened herself up. Again she saw—whether she would or no—those
                        defective shortened limbs and oddly shod feet. And again, somehow, that
                        complaint of the moist spring wind seemed to cry against her bare arms and
                        neck, begetting an overwhelming pitifulness in her.
                    
                    “So, since it’s not altogether necessary we should reserve it as an
                        object?lesson in general ineffectualness, Miss St. Quentin, what shall we do
                        with it?”
                    “Oh, plant,” she said.
                    “With the ubiquitous Scotchman?”
                    “It wouldn’t carry anything else, except along the boundaries. There you
                        might put in a row of horn?beam and oak. They always look rather nice
                        against a background of firs.—Only the stumps of the burnt trees ought to be
                        stubbed.”
                    “Let them be stubbed,” Richard said.
                    “Where are you going to find the labour? The estate is very much
                        under?manned.”
                    “Import it,” Richard said.
                    “No, no,” Honoria answered, again warming to her subject. “I don’t believe in
                        imported labour. If you have men by the week, they must lodge. And the
                        lodger is as the ten plagues of Egypt in a village. If a man comes by the
                        day, he is tired and slack. His heart is not in his work. He does as little
                        as he can. Moreover, in either case, the wife and children suffer. He’s
                        certain to take them home short money. He’s pretty safe, being tired in the
                        one case, or in the other, on the loose, to drink.”
                    Dickie’s face gave. He laughed a little.
                    “We seem to have come to a fine impasse!”
                        he remarked. “Though humiliatingly small, that tract of burnt land must
                        clearly be kept to knock one’s head against after all.”
                    Honoria rose to her feet.
                    “Richard, I wish you’d build,” she said, in her earnestness unconscious of
                        the unceremonious character of her address. “Iles ought to have done that
                        before now. But he is old and timid, and his one idea has been to save. You
                        know this Brockhurst property alone would carry eight or ten more families.
                        There’s plenty of work. It needn’t be made. It is there ready to hand. Give
                        them good gardens, allotments if you can, and leave to keep a pig. That’s
                        infinitely better than extravagant wages. Root them down in the soil. Let
                        them love the place—tie them up to it”—
                    “Your socialism is rather quaintly crossed with feudalism, isn’t it?” Dickie
                        remarked.
                    He drew himself forward, slipped down off the sofa, stood upright. And then,
                        indeed, the cruel disparity between his stature and her own—for tall though
                        she was, he, by right of make and length of arm, should evidently have been
                        by some two or three inches the taller—and all the grotesqueness of his deformity, were fully disclosed to
                        Honoria. For the second time that day, her tact, her presence of mind, her
                        ready speech, deserted her. She backed a little away from him.
                    And Richard perceived that. It is not easy to be absolutely philosophic.
                        Something of his old anger revived towards Miss St. Quentin. He shuffled
                        forward a step or two, and, supporting himself with one hand on the arm of
                        the sofa, reached down to pick up his crutches. But his grasp was not very
                        sure just then. He secured one. To his intense annoyance the other escaped
                        him, falling back on the floor with a rattle. Then, instantly, before he
                        could make effort to recover it, Honoria’s white figure swept down on one
                        knee in front of him. She laid hold of the crutch, gave it him silently, and
                        rose to her full height again, pale, gallant, stately, but with a quivering
                        of her lips and nostrils, and an amazement of regret and pity in her eyes,
                        which very certainly had never found place there heretofore.
                    “Thanks,” Richard said.—He waited just a minute. He too was amazed somehow.
                        He needed to revise the position.—“About those eight or ten happy families
                        whom you wish to root so firmly in the soil, and the housing of them—are you
                        busy to?morrow morning?”
                    “Oh no—no ”—Honoria declared, with rather unnecessary emphasis.
                    Generosity should surely be met by generosity. Dickie leaned his back against
                        the arm of the sofa, and looked up at the speaker. Her transparent
                        sincerity, her superb chastity—he could call it by no other word—of manner
                        and movement, even of outline—the slight angularity of strong muscle as
                        opposed to soft roundness of cushioned flesh—these arrested and impressed
                        him.
                    “I had Chifney up from the stables this afternoon and made my peace with
                        him,” he said. “He was very full of your praises, Honoria—for the cousinship
                        may as well be acknowledged between us, don’t you think? You have
                        supplemented my lapses in respect of him, as of a good deal else.”—Richard
                        looked away to the door of Lady Calmady’s bedroom. It stood open, and
                        Katherine came from within with some books, and a silver candlestick, in her
                        hands.
                    “My dears,” she said, “do you know it grows very late?”
                    “All right,” he answered, “we’re making out some plans for to?morrow.”—He
                        looked at Honoria again.—“Chifney engaged that he and Chaplin would find a
                        horse, between them, which could be trusted to—well—to put up with me,” he
                        said. “I promised to go down and have breakfast with dear Mrs. Chifney at the stables, but I can be back here by
                        eleven. Would you be inclined to come out with me then? We could ride over
                        that burnt land and have a poke round for sites for your cottages.”
                    “Oh yes, indeed, I can come,” Honoria answered. Her delightful smile beamed
                        forth, and it had a new and very delicate charm in it. For it so happened
                        that the woman in her whom—to use her own phrase—she had condemned to
                        solitary confinement in the back attic, beat very violently against her
                        prison door just then in attempt to escape.
                    “Dear Cousin Katherine, good?night. Good?night, Richard,” she said
                        hurriedly.—She went out of the room, lazily, slowly, down the black,
                        polished staircase, across the great, silent hall, and along the farther
                        lobby. But she let the Gun?Room door bang to behind her and flung herself
                        down in the arm?chair—in which, by the way, the old bull?dog had died a year
                        ago, broken?hearted by over long waiting for the home?coming of his absent
                        master. And then Honoria, though the least tearful of women, wept—not in
                        petulant anger, or with the easy, luxuriously sentimental overflow common to
                        feminine humanity; but reluctantly, with hard, irregular sobs which hurt,
                        yet refused to be stifled, since the extreme limit of emotional and mental
                        endurance had been reached.
                    “Oh, it’s fine!” she said, half aloud. “I can see that it’s fine—but, dear
                        God, is there no way out of it? It’s so horribly, so unspeakably sad.”
                    And Richard remained on into the small hours, sitting before the dying fire
                        of the big hearth?place, at the eastern end of the gallery. Mentally he
                        audited his accounts, the profit and loss of this day’s doing, and, on the
                        whole, the balance showed upon the profit side. Verily it was only a day of
                        small things, of very humble ambitions, of far from world?shaking successes!
                        Still four persons, he judged, he had made a degree or so happier.—His
                        mother rejoiced, though with trembling as yet, at his return to the ordinary
                        habits of the ordinary man. Sweet, dear thing, small wonder that she
                        trembled! He had led her such a dance in the past, that any new departure
                        must give cause for anxious questionings. Dickie sunk his head in his
                        hands.—God forgive him, what a dance he had led her!—And Julius March was
                        happier—he, Richard, was pretty certain of that—since Julius could not but
                        understand that, in the present case at all events, neither fulfilment of
                        prophecy nor answer to prayer had been disregarded.—And the hard?bitten,
                        irascible, old trainer, Tom Chifney, was happier—probably really the
                            happiest of the lot—since he demanded
                        nothing more recondite and far?reaching than restoration to favour, and due
                        recognition of the importance of his calling and of the merits of his
                        horses.—And nice, funny, voluble, little Dick Ormiston was happier too.
                        Richard’s heart went out strangely to the dear little lad! He wondered if it
                        would be too much to ask Mary and Roger to give him the boy altogether? Then
                        he put the thought from him, judging it savoured of the selfishness, the
                        exclusiveness and egoism, with which he had sworn to part company
                        forever.
                    He stretched his hand out over the arm of the chair, craving for some
                        creature, warm, sentient, dumbly sympathetic, to lay hold of.—He remembered
                        there used to be a man down near Alton, a hard?riding farmer, who bred
                        bull?dogs—white ones with black points, like Camp and Camp’s forefathers. He
                        would tell Chifney to go down there and bespeak the two best of the next
                        litter of puppies.—Yes—he wanted a dog again. It was foolish perhaps, but
                        after all one did want something, and, since other things were denied, a dog
                        must do and he wanted one badly.—Yet the day had been a success on the
                        whole. He had been true to his code. Only—and Richard shrugged his shoulders
                        rather wearily—it had got to be begun all over again to?morrow, and next
                        day, and next—an endless perspective of to?morrows. And the poor flesh, with
                        its many demands, its delicious and iniquitous passions, its enchantments,
                        its revelations, its adorable languors, its drunken heats, must it have
                        nothing, nothing at all?—Must that whole side of things be ruled out
                        forever? He had no more desire for mistresses, God forbid—Helen, somehow,
                        had cleansed him of all possibility of that. And he would never ask any
                        woman to marry him. The sacrifice on her part would be too great.—He thought
                        of little Lady Constance.—Simply, it was not right.—So, practically, the
                        emotional joys of life were reduced to this—they must consist solely in
                        giving—giving—giving, of time, sympathy, thought and money. A far from
                        ignoble programme no doubt, but a rather austere one for a man of liberal
                        tastes, of varied experience, and of barely thirty.—And he was as strong as
                        a bull now. He knew that. He might live to be ninety.—Yes, he thought he
                        would ask for little Dick Ormiston. The boy would be an amusement and
                        interest him. And then suddenly the vision of Honoria St. Quentin, in her
                        red and black?braided gown, with that air of something ruffling and
                        soldierly about it, whipping the small Dick up in her strong arms, throwing
                        him across her shoulder and bearing him off bodily; and of Honoria again
                        later, her sensitive face all alight, as she discoursed of the ultimate aim
                        and purpose of life and of living, came
                        before him. Above her white dress, he could see her white and finely angular
                        shoulders as she swept down to pick up that wretched crutch.—Yes, she was a
                        being of singular contrasts, of remarkable capacity, both mental and
                        practical! And she might have a heart—she might. Once or twice it had looked
                        rather like it.—But, after all, what did that matter? The feminine side of
                        things was excluded. Besides he supposed she was half engaged to Ludovic
                        Quayle.
                    Dickie yawned. He was sleepy. His meditations became unprofitable. He had
                        best go to bed.
                    “And the devil fly away with all women, saving and excepting my best?beloved
                        mother,” he said.
                
                
                    CHAPTER VIII
                    CONCERNING THE BROTHERHOOD FOUNDED BY RICHARD CALMADY, AND
                        OTHER MATTERS OF SOME INTEREST
                    IT was still very sultry. All the windows of the red drawing?room
                        stood wide open. Outside the thunder rain fell, straight as ram?rods, in big
                        globular drops, which spattered upon the grey quarries and splashed on the
                        pink and lilac, lemon?yellow, scarlet and orange of the pot
                        plants,—hydrangeas, pelargoniums, and early?flowering chrysanthemums,—set
                        three?deep along the base of the house wall, the whole length of the terrace
                        front. The atmosphere was thick. Masses of purple cloud, lurid light
                        crowning their summits, boiled up out of the south?east. But the worst of
                        the storm was already over, and the parched land, grateful for the downpour
                        of rain, exhaled a whiteness of smoke—as in thanksgiving from off some altar
                        of incense. On the grass slopes of the near park a flight of rooks had
                        alighted. They stalked and strode over the withered turf with a
                        self?important, quaintly clerical air, seeking provender, but, so far,
                        finding none, since the moisture had not yet sufficiently penetrated the
                        hardened soil for earth?worms and kindred creeping?things to move
                        surfacewards.
                    Within, the red drawing?room had suffered conspicuous change. For, on Richard
                        moving downstairs to his old quarters in the south?western wing of the
                        house, Lady Calmady had judged it an act of love, rather than of
                        desecration, to restore this long?disused apartment to its former
                        employment. Adjoining the dining?room—connecting this last with the
                            billiard? room, summer?parlour, and
                        garden?hall—this room was convenient to assemble in before, and sit in for a
                        while after, meals. Richard would thereby be saved superfluous journeys
                        upstairs. And this act of restitution, which was also in a sense an act of
                        penitence, once decided upon, Katherine carried it forward with a certain
                        gentle ardour, renewing crimson carpets and hangings and disposing the
                        furniture according to its long?ago positions. The memory of what had once
                        been should remain forever here enshrined, but with the glad colours of
                        life, not the faded ones of unforgiven death upon it. It satisfied her
                        conscience to do this. For it appeared to her that so very much of good had
                        been granted her of late, so large a measure of peace and hope vouchsafed to
                        her, that it was but fitting she should bear testimony to her awareness of
                        all that by obliteration of the last outward sign of the rebellion of her
                        sorrowful youth. The Richard of to?day, homestaying, busy with much
                        kindness, thoughtful of her comfort, honouring her with delicate
                        courtesies—which to whoso receives them makes her womanhood a privilege
                        rather than a burden—yet teasing her not a little, too, in the security of a
                        fair and equal affection, bore such moving resemblance to that other
                        Richard, first master of her heart, that Katherine could afford to cancel
                        the cruelty of certain memories, retaining only the lovelier portion of
                        them, and could find a peculiar sweetness in frequentation of this room,
                        formerly devoted wholly to sense of injury and blackness of hate.
                    And on the day in question, Katherine’s presence exhaled a specially tender
                        brightness, even as the thirsty earth, refreshed by the thunder?rain, sent
                        up a rare whiteness as of incense smoke. For she had been somewhat anxious
                        about Dickie lately. To her sensitive observation of him, his virtue, his
                        evenness of temper, his reasonableness, had come to have in them a pathetic
                        element. He was lovely and pleasant in his ways. But sometimes, when tired
                        or off his guard, she had surprised an expression on his face, a constrained
                        patience of speech, even of attitude, which made her fear he had given her
                        but that half of his confidence calculated to cheer, while he kept the half
                        calculated to sadden rather rigorously to himself. And, in good truth,
                        Richard did suffer not a little at this period. The first push of
                        enthusiastic conviction had passed, while his new manner of conduct and of
                        thought had not yet acquired the stability of habit. The tide was low.
                        Shallows and sand?bars disclosed themselves. He endured the temptations
                        arising from the state known to saintly writers as “spiritual dryness,” and
                        found those temptations of an inglorious and wholly unheroic sort. And,
                        though he held his peace, Katherine feared
                        for him—feared that the way he elected to walk in was over strait, and that,
                        though resolution would hold, health might be overstrained.
                    “My darling, you never grumble now,” she had said to him a few days back.
                    To which he answered:—
                    “Poor, dear mother, have I cheated you of one of your few, small pleasures?
                        Was it so very delightful to listen to that same grumbling?”
                    “I begin to believe it was,” Katherine declared. “It conferred a unique
                        distinction upon me, you see, because I had a comfortable conviction you
                        grumbled to nobody else. One is jealous of distinction. Yes—I think I miss
                        it, Dickie.”
                    Whereupon he laughed and kissed her, and swore he’d grumble fast enough if
                        there was anything—which positively there wasn’t—to grumble about. All of
                        which, though it charmed Katherine, appeased her anxiety but moderately. The
                        young man worked too hard. His opportunities of amusement were too scant.
                        Katherine cast about in thought, and in prayer, for some lightening of his
                        daily life, even if such lightening should lessen the completeness of his
                        dependence upon herself. And it was just at this juncture that Miss St.
                        Quentin wrote proposing to come to Brockhurst for a week. She had not been
                        there since the Whitsuntide recess. She wrote from Ormiston, where she was
                        staying on her way south, after paying a round of country?house visits in
                        Scotland. It was now September. She would probably go to Cairo for the
                        winter with young Lady Tobermory—grand?niece by marriage of her late
                        god?mother and benefactress—whose lungs were pronounced to be badly touched.
                        Might she, therefore, come to Brockhurst to say good?bye?
                    And to this proposed visit Richard offered no opposition, though he received
                        the announcement of it without any marked demonstration of approval.—Oh, by
                        all means let her come! Of course it must be a pleasure to his mother to
                        have her. And he’d got on very well with her in the spring—unquestionably he
                        had.—Richard’s expression was slightly ironical.—But he did really like
                        her?—Oh dear, yes, he liked her exceedingly. She was quite curiously clever,
                        and she was sincere, and she was rather beautiful too, in her own style—he
                        had always thought that. By all means have her.—After which conversation
                        Richard went for a long ride, inspected cottages in building at Sandyfield,
                        and visited a house, undergoing extensive internal alterations, which stands
                        back from Clerke’s Green, about a hundred yards short of Appleyard, the
                        saddler’s shop at Farley Row. He came in late. Unusual silence held him during dinner. And Lady Calmady
                        took herself to task, reproaching herself with selfishness. Honoria was very
                        dear to her, and so, only too probably, she had overrated the friendliness
                        of Dickie’s attitude towards the young lady. But they had seemed to get on
                        so extremely well in the spring, and very fairly well at Whitsuntide! Yet,
                        perhaps, in that, as in so much else, Richard put a constraint upon himself,
                        obeying conscience rather than inclination. Katherine was perturbed. Nor had
                        her perturbations suffered diminution yesterday, upon Miss St. Quentin’s
                        arrival. Richard remained unexpansive. Today, however, matters had improved.
                        Something—possibly the thunderstorm—seemed to have thawed his coldness,
                        broken up his reticence of manner. Therefore Katherine gave thanks and moved
                        with a lighter heart.
                    As for Miss St. Quentin herself, an innate gladsomeness pervaded her aspect
                        not easy to resist. Lady Calmady had been sensible of it when the young lady
                        first greeted her that morning. It remained by her now, as she stood after
                        luncheon at one of the open windows, watching the up?rolling thunder?cloud,
                        the spattering raindrops, the quaintly solemn behaviour of the stalking,
                        striding rooks. Honoria was easily entertained to?day. She felt
                        well?disposed towards every living creature. And the rooks diverted her
                        extremely. Profanely they reminded her of certain archiepiscopal
                        garden?parties; with this improvement on the human variant, that here wives
                        and daughters also were condemned to decent sables instead of being at
                        liberty to array themselves according to self?invented canons of remarkably
                        defective taste. But, though diverted, it must be owned she gave her
                        attention the more closely to all that outward drama of storm and rain and
                        to the antics of the rooks, because she was very conscious of the fact that
                        Richard Calmady had followed her and his mother into the red drawing?room,
                        and it hurt her?though she had now, of necessity, witnessed it many times—it
                        hurt, it still very shrewdly distressed her, to see him walk. As she heard
                        the soft thud and shuffle of his onward progress, followed by the little
                        clatter of the crutches as he laid them upon the floor beside his chair, the
                        brightness died out of Honoria’s face. She registered sharp annoyance
                        against herself, for she had not anticipated that this would continue to
                        affect her so much. She supposed she had grown accustomed to it during her
                        last two visits to Brockhurst, and that, this time, it would occasion her no
                        shock. But the sadness of the young man’s deformity remained present as
                        ever. The indignity of it offended her. The desire by some, by any, means to
                        mitigate the woful circumscription of
                        liberty and opportunity which it inflicted, wrought upon her almost
                        painfully. And so she looked very hard at the hungry, anticking rooks, both
                        to secure time for recovery of her equanimity, and also to spare Richard
                        smallest suspicion that she avoided beholding his advance and
                        installation.
                    “We needn’t start until four, mother,” she heard him say. “But I’m afraid it
                        is clearing.”
                    Honoria turned from the window.
                    “Yes, it is clearing,” she remarked, “incontestably clearing! You won’t
                        escape the Grimshott function after all.”
                    “It’s a nuisance having to go,” Richard replied. “But you see this is an old
                        engagement. People are wonderfully civil and kind. I wish they were less so.
                        They waste one’s time. But it doesn’t do to be ungracious, and we needn’t
                        stay more than half an hour, need we, mother?”
                    He looked up at Honoria.
                    “Don’t you think, on the whole, you’d better come too?” he said.
                    But the young lady shook her head smilingly. She stood close beside Lady
                        Calmady.
                    “Oh dear, no,” she answered. “I am quite absolutely certain I hadn’t better
                        come too.”
                    Richard continued to look up at her.
                    “Half the county will be there. Everything will be richly, comprehensively
                        dull. Think of it. Do come,” he repeated, “it would be so good for your
                        soul.”
                    “Oh, my soul’s in the humour to be nobly careless of personal advantage,”
                        Honoria replied. “It’s in a state of almost perilously full?blown optimism
                        regarding the security of its own salvation to?day, somehow.”—Her glance
                        rested very sweetly upon Lady Calmady.—“And then all the rest of and not
                        impossibly my soul has a word to say in that connection too—cries out to go
                        and tramp over the steaming turf and breathe the scent of the fir woods
                        again.”
                    Honoria sat down lazily on the arm of a neighbouring easy?chair, against the
                        crimson cover of which her striped blue?and?white, shirting dress showed
                        excellently distinct and clear. Richard’s prolonged and quiet scrutiny
                        oppressed her slightly, necessitating change of attitude and place.
                    “And then,” she continued, “I want to go down to the paddocks and have a look
                        at the yearlings. How are they coming on? Have you anything good?”
                    “Two or three promising fillies. They’re in the paddock nearest the Long
                        Water. You’ll find them as quiet as sheep.
                        But I’ll ask you not to go in among the brood?mares and foals unless Chifney
                        is with you. They may be a bit savage and shy, and it is not altogether safe
                        for a lady.”
                    He stretched out his hand, taking Lady Calmady’s hand for a moment.
                    “Dear mother, you look tired. You’ll have to put up with Grimshott. The
                        weather’s not going to let us off. Go and rest till we start.”
                    And when, a few minutes later, Katherine, departing, closed the door behind
                        her, he addressed Miss St. Quentin again.
                    “How do you think my mother is?”
                    “Beautifully well.”
                    “Not worried?”
                    “No,” Honoria said.
                    “You are really quite contented about her, then?”
                    The question both surprised and touched his hearer, as a friendly and
                        gracious admission that she possessed certain rights.
                    “Oh dear, yes,” she said. “I am more than contented about her. No one can
                        fail to be so who, loving her, sees her now. There was just one thing she
                        wanted. Now she has it, and so all is well.”
                    “What one thing?” Dickie asked, with a hint of irony in his manner and his
                        voice.
                    “Why, you—you, Richard,” Honoria said.
                    She drew herself up proudly, a little alarmed by, a little defiant of, the
                        directness of her own speech, perceiving, so soon as she had uttered it,
                        that it might be construed as indirect reproach. And to administer reproach
                        had been very far from her purpose. She fixed her eyes upon the domes of the
                        great oaks, crowning an outstanding knoll at the far end of the lime avenue.
                        The foliage of them, deep green shading into russet, was arrestingly solid
                        and metallic, offering a rather magnificent scheme of stormy colour taken in
                        connection with the hot purple of the uprolling cloud. Framed by the stone
                        work of the open window, the whole presented a fine picture in the manner of
                        Salvator Rosa. A few bright raindrops splashed and splattered, and the
                        thunder growled far away in the north. The atmosphere was heavy. For a time
                        neither spoke. Then Honoria said, gently, as one asking a favour:—
                    “Richard, will you tell me about that home of yours? Cousin Katherine was
                        speaking of it to me last night.”
                    And it seemed to her his thought must have journeyed to some far distance,
                        and found difficulty in returning thence, it was so long before he answered her, while his face had become set, and
                        showed colourless as wax against the surrounding crimson of the room.
                    “Oh, the home!” he exclaimed, shrugging his shoulders just perceptibly. “It
                        doesn’t amount to very much. My mother in her dear unwisdom of faith and
                        hope magnifies the value of it. It’s just an idle man’s fad.”
                    “A fad with an uncommon amount of backbone to it, apparently.”
                    “That depends on its eventual success. It’s a thing to be judged not by
                        intentions but by results.”
                    “What made you think of it?”
                    Richard looked full at her, spreading out his hands, and again shrugging his
                        shoulders slightly. Again Miss St. Quentin accused herself of a defect of
                        tact.
                    “Isn’t it rather obvious why I should think of it?” he asked. “It seemed to
                        me that, in a very mild and limited degree, it was calculated to meet a
                        want.”—He smiled upon her, quite sweet?temperedly, yet once more there was a
                        flavour of irony in his tone.—“Of course hideous creatures and disabled
                        creatures are an eyesore. We pity, but we look the other way. I quite accept
                        that. They are a nuisance, since they are a standing witness to the fact
                        that things, here below, very far from always work smoothly and well, and
                        that there are disasters beyond the power of applied science to put right.
                        The ordinary human being doesn’t covet to be forcibly reminded of that by
                        means of a living object?lesson.”
                    Richard shifted his position, clasped his hands behind his head. He had begun
                        speaking without idea of self?revelation; but the relief of speech, after
                        long self?repression, took him, goading him on. Old strains of feeling, kept
                        under by conscious exercise of will, asserted themselves. He asked neither
                        sympathy nor help. He simply called from off those shallows and sand?bars
                        laid bare by the ebbing tide of his first enthusiasm. He protested, wearied
                        by the spiritual dryness which had caused all effort to prove so joyless of
                        late. To have sought relief in words before his mother would have been
                        unpardonable he held. She had borne enough from him in the past, and more
                        than enough. But to permit it himself in the presence of this young, strong,
                        capable woman of the world, was very different. She came out of the swing of
                        society and of affairs, of large interests in politics and in thought. She
                        would go back into those again very shortly, so what did it matter? She
                        captivated him and incensed him alike. His relation to her had been so fertile of contradictions—at once
                        singularly superficial and fugitive, and singularly vital. He did not care
                        to analyse his own feelings in respect of her. He had, so he told himself,
                        never quite cared to do that. She had wounded his pride shrewdly at times,
                        still he had unquestioning faith in her power of comprehending his meaning
                        as she sat there, graceful, long?limbed, indolent, in her pale dress,
                        looking towards the window, the light on her face revealing the fine
                        squareness of the chiselling of her profile, of her jaw, her nostril, and
                        brow. She appeared so free of spirit, so untrammelled, so excellently
                        exalted above all that is weak, craven, smirched by impurity, capable of
                        baseness or deceit.
                    “But naturally with me the case is different,” he went on, his voice growing
                        deeper, his utterance more measured. “It is futile to resent being reminded
                        of that which, in point of fact, you never forget. It’s childish for the pot
                        to call the kettle black. And so I came to the conclusion, a few months ago,
                        to put away all such childishness, and set myself to gain whatever advantage
                        I could from—well—from my own blackness.”
                    Honoria turned her head, averting her face yet farther. Richard could only
                        see the outline of her cheek. She had never before heard him make so direct
                        allusion to his own deformity, and it frightened her a little. Her heart
                        beat curiously quick. For it was to her as though he compelled her to draw
                        near and penetrate a region in which, gazing thitherward questioningly from
                        afar, she had divined the residence of stern and intimate miseries,
                        inalienable, unremittent, taking their rise in an almost alarming remoteness
                        of time and fundamentality of cause.
                    “You see, in plain English,” he said, “I view all such unhappy beings from
                        the inside, not, as the rest of you do, merely from the out. I belong to
                        them and they to me. It is not an altogether flattering connection. Only
                        recently, I am afraid, have I had the honesty to acknowledge it! But, having
                        once done so, it seems only reasonable to look up the members of my unlucky
                        family and take care of them, and if possible put them through—not on the
                        lines of a charitable institution, which must inevitably be a rather
                        mechanical, step?mother kind of arrangement at best, but on the lines of
                        family affection, of personal friendship.”
                    He paused a moment.
                    “Does that strike you as too unpractical and fantastic, contrary to sound,
                        philanthropic principle and practice?”
                    Honoria shook her head.
                    “It is based on a higher law than any of modern organised philanthropy,” she
                        said, and her voice had a queer unsteadiness in it. “It goes back to the Gospels—to the matter of giving your life for
                        your friend.”
                    As she spoke, Honoria rose. She went across and stood at the window.
                        Furtively she dabbed her pocket handkerchief against her eyes.
                    “Well, after all, one must give one’s life for something or other, you know,”
                        Richard remarked, “or the days would become a little too intolerably dull,
                        and then one might be tempted to make short work of life altogether.”
                    Honoria returned to her chair again and sat down—this time not on the arm of
                        it but in ordinary conventional fashion. She faced Richard. He observed that
                        her eyelids were slightly swollen, slightly red. This gave an extraordinary
                        effect of gentleness to her expression.
                    “How do you find them—the members of your sad family?” she asked.
                    “Oh, in all sorts of ways and of places! Knott swears it is contrary to
                        reason, an interfering with the beneficent tendency of nature to kill off
                        the unfit. Yet he works like a horse to help me—even talks of giving up his
                        practice and moving to Farley Row, so as to be near the headquarters of my
                        establishment. The lease of a rather charming, old house there fell in this
                        year. Fortunately the tenant did not want to renew, so I am having that made
                        comfortable for them.”
                    Richard smiled. A greater sense of well?being animated him. Out of the world
                        she had come, back into the world she would go. Meanwhile she was nobly fair
                        to look upon, she was pure of heart, intercourse with her made for the
                        justification of high purposes and unselfish experiment—so he thought.
                    “I am growing as keen on bagging a fine cripple as another man might be on
                        bagging a fine tiger,” he said. “The whole matter at bottom, I suspect,
                        turns on the instinct of sport.— Only the week before last I acquired a
                        rather terribly superior specimen—a lad of eighteen, a factory hand in
                        Westchurch. He was caught by some loose gearing and swept into the
                        machinery. What is left of him—if it survives, which it had much better not,
                        and yet I can’t help hoping it will, he is such a plucky, sweet?natured
                        fellow—will require a nurse for the rest of its life. So I am pushing on the
                        work at Farley, that the home may be ready when we get him out of
                        hospital.—By the way, I must go to?morrow and stir up the workmen—Do you
                        care to come and see it all, if the afternoon is fine and not too hot?”
                    And Honoria agreed. Nor did she shrink when Richard slipping out of his chair
                        picked up his crutches.—“I suppose it is
                        about time to get ready for the Grimshott function,” he said.—She walked
                        beside him to the door, opened it and passed into the neutral?tinted,
                        tapestry?hung dining?room. There the young man waited a moment. He looked
                        not at her but straight before him.
                    “Honoria,” he said suddenly, almost harshly, “you and Helen de Vallorbes used
                        to be great friends. For more than a year I have held no communication with
                        her, except through my lawyers. Can you tell me anything about her?”
                    Miss St. Quentin hesitated.
                    “Nothing very direct—I heard from de Vallorbes about three months ago. I
                        don’t think I am faithless—indeed I held on to her as long as I could,
                        Richard! I am not squeamish, and then I always prefer to stand by the woman.
                        But whatever de Vallorbes may have been, he pulled himself together rather
                        admirably from the time he went into the army. He wanted to keep straight
                        and to live respectably. And—I hate to say so—but she treated him a little
                        too flagrantly. And then—and then”—
                    Honoria put her hands over her eyes and shook back her head angrily.
                    “It wasn’t one man, Richard.”
                    Dickie went white to the lips.
                    “I know that,” he said.
                    He moved forward a few steps.
                    “Who is it now? Destournelle?”
                    “Oh no—no”—Honoria said. “Some Russian—from the extreme east—Kazan, I
                        think—prince, millionaire, drunken savage. But he adores her. He squanders
                        money upon her, surrounds her with barbaric state. This is de Vallorbes’
                        version of the affair. The scandal is open and notorious. But she and her
                        prince together have great power. Something will eventually be arranged in
                        the way of a marriage. She will not come back.”
                
                
                    CHAPTER IX
                    TELLING HOW LUDOVIC QUAYLE AND HONORIA ST. QUENTIN WATCHED THE
                        TROUT RISE IN THE LONG WATER
                    SOME hour and a half later Miss St. Quentin passed down the flight
                        of stone steps, leading from the southern end of the terrace to the grass
                        slopes of the park. Arrived at the lowest step she gathered the skirt of her
                        dress up over one arm, thereby securing
                        greater freedom of movement, and displaying a straight length of pink and
                        white petticoat. Thus prepared she fared forth over the still smoking turf.
                        The storm had passed, but the atmosphere remained thick and humid. A certain
                        opulence of colour obtained in the landscape. The herbs in the grass,
                        wild?thyme, wild?balm, and star?flowered camomile, smelt strongly aromatic
                        as she trod them under foot, while the beds of bracken, dried and yellowed
                        by the drought, gave off a sharp, woody scent.
                    Usually, when thus alone and in contact with nature, such matters claimed
                        Honoria’s whole attention, ministering to her love of earth?lore and of
                        Mother Earth—producing in her silent worship of those primitive deities who
                        at once preside over and inhabit the waste?land and the tilth, the untamed
                        forest and the pastures where heavy?uddered, sweet?breathed cows lie in the
                        deep, meadow grass, the garden ground, all pleasant orchard places, and the
                        broad promise of the waving crops. But this afternoon, although the colour,
                        odour, warmth, and all the many voices praising the refreshment of the rain,
                        were sensibly present to her, Honoria’s thought failed to be engrossed by
                        them. For she was in process of worshipping younger and more compassionate
                        deities, sadder, because more human ones, whose office lies not with Nature
                        in her eternal repose and fecundity, but with man in his eternal failure and
                        unrest. Not august Ceres, giver of the golden harvest?fields, or fierce
                        Cybele, the goddess of the many paps, but spare, brown?habited St. Francis,
                        serving his brethren with bleeding hands and feet, held empire over her
                        meditations.—In imagination she saw—saw with only too lively realisation of
                        detail—that eighteen?year?old lad, in the factory at Westchurch, drawn
                        up—all the unspent hopes and pleasures of his young manhood active in him—by
                        the loose gearing, into the merciless vortex of revolving wheels; and there,
                        without preparation, without pause of warning, without any dignity of
                        shouting multitude, of arena or of stake, martyred—converted in a few
                        horrible seconds from health and wholeness into a formless lump of human
                        waste. And up and down the land, as she reflected, wherever the great
                        systems of trade and labour, which build up the mechanical and material
                        prosperity of our day, go forward, kindred things happen—let alone question
                        of all those persons who are born into the world already injured, or bearing
                        the seeds of foul and disfiguring diseases in their organs and their blood.
                        Verily Richard Calmady’s sad family was a rather terribly large one, well
                        calculated to maintain its numbers, even to increase! For neither the age of
                            human sacrifice nor of cannibalism is
                        really done with; nor is the practice of them limited to savage peoples in
                        distant lands or far?away isles of the sea. They form the basis actually,
                        though in differing of outward aspect, of all existing civilisations, just
                        as they formed the basis of all past civilisations—a basis, moreover,
                        perpetually recemented and relaid. And, as she considered—being courageous
                        and fair?minded—it was inevitable that this should be so, unthinkable that
                        it should be otherwise, since it made, at least indirectly, for the
                        prosperity of the majority and development of the race. Considering
                        which—the apparently cruel paradox and irony of it—Honoria swung down past
                        the scattered hawthorns, thick with ruddy fruit, across the fragrant herbs
                        and short, sweet turf, through the straggling fern?brakes, which impeded her
                        progress plucking at her skirts, careless of the rich colour and ample
                        beauty out?spread before her.
                    But soon, as a bird after describing far?ranging circles drops at last upon
                        the from at?first?determined spot, so her thought settled down with relief
                        yet in a way unwillingly—and that not out of any lingering repulsion, but
                        rather from a certain proud modesty and self?respect—upon Richard Calmady
                        himself. Not only did he apprehend all this, far more clearly, more
                        intimately than she could—had he not spoken of the advantages of a certain
                        blackness?—Honoria’s vision became somewhat indistinct—but he set out to
                        deal with it in a practical manner. And in this connection she began to
                        understand how it had come about that through years of ingratitude and
                        neglect, and of loose?living on his part, his mother could still remain
                        patient, could endure, and supremely love. For behind the obvious, the
                        almost coarse, tragedy and consequent appeal of the man’s deformity, there
                        was the further appeal of something very admirable in the man himself, for
                        the emergence and due blossoming of which it would be very possible, very
                        worth while, for whoso once recognised its existence to wait. John Knott had
                        been right in his estimate of Richard. Ludovic Quayle had been right. Lady
                        Calmady had been right.—Honoria had begun to believe that, even before
                        Richard had come forth from his self?imposed seclusion, in the spring. The
                        belief had increased during her subsequent intercourse with him, had been
                        reinforced during her few days’ visit at Whitsuntide. Yet, until now, she
                        had never freely and openly admitted it. She wondered why? And then hastily
                        she put such wondering from her. Again a certain proud modesty held her
                        back. She did not want to think of herself in relation to him, or of him in
                        relation to herself. She wished, for a reason she refused to define, to
                        exclude the personal element. Doing that
                        she could permit herself larger latitude of admiration. His acknowledgment
                        of fellowship with, and obligation of friendship towards, all victims of
                        physical disaster kindled her enthusiasm. She perceived that it was contrary
                        to the man’s natural arrogance, natural revolt against the humiliation put
                        upon him—a rather superb overcoming, in short, of nature by grace. Nor was
                        it the outgrowth of any morbid or sentimental emotion. It had no tincture of
                        the hysteric element. It took its rise in conviction and in experiment. For
                        Richard, though still young, struck her as remarkably mature. He had lived
                        his life, sinned his sins—she did not doubt that—suffered unusual sorrows,
                        bought his experience in the open market and at a sufficiently high price.
                        And this was the result! It pleased her imagination by its essential
                        unworldliness, its idealism and individuality of outlook. She went back on
                        her earlier judgment of him, first formulated as a complaint,—he was strong,
                        whether for good or evil, now unselfishly for good; and Honoria, being
                        herself among the strong, supremely valued and welcomed strength. And so it
                        happened that the tone of her meditations altered, being increasingly
                        attuned to a serious, but very real congratulation; for she perceived that
                        the tragedy of human life also constitutes the magnificence of human life,
                        since it affords, and always must afford, supreme opportunity of
                        heroism.
                    She had traversed the open space of turf, and come to the tall, iron hurdles
                        enclosing the paddock. She folded her arms on the topmost bar of the iron
                        gate and stood there. She wanted to rest a little in these thoughts that had
                        come to her. She was not quite sure of them as yet. But, if they meant
                        anything, if they were other than mere rhetoric, they must mean a very great
                        deal, into harmony with which it would be necessary to bring her thought
                        upon many other subjects. She was conscious of an excitement, a reaching out
                        towards some but?half?disclosed glory, some new and very exquisite fulness
                        of life. But was it new, after all? Was it not rather the at?last?permitted
                        activity of faculties and sensibilities hitherto refused development,
                        voluntarily, perhaps cowardly, held in check and repressed? She appeared to
                        be making acquaintance with unexpected depths of apprehension and emotion in
                        herself. And this, for cause unknown, brought her into more lively commerce
                        with her immediate surroundings and the sentiment of them. Her eyes rested
                        upon them questioningly, as though they might afford a tally to, perhaps an
                        explanation of, the strange, yet lovely emotion which had invaded her.
                    
                    Here in the valley, notwithstanding the recent drought, the grass was lush.
                        Across the paddock, just within the circuit of the far railings, a grove of
                        large beech trees broke the expanse of living green. Beyond, seen beneath
                        their down?sweeping branches, the surface of the Long Water repeated the hot
                        purple, the dun?colour and silver?pink, of the sky. On the opposite slope,
                        extending from the elm avenue to the outlying masses of the woods and upward
                        to the line of oaks which run parallel with the park palings, were
                        cornlands. The wheat, a red?gold, was already for the most part bound in
                        shocks. A company of women, wearing lilac and pink sun?bonnets and
                        all?round, blue, linen aprons faded by frequent washing to a fine clearness
                        of tone, came down over the blond stubble. They carried, in little baskets
                        and shining tins, tea for the white?shirred harvesters who were busy setting
                        up the storm?fallen sheaves. They laughed and talked together, and their
                        voices came to Honoria with a pleasant quality of sound. Two stumbling
                        baby?children, hand in hand, followed them, as did a small, white?and?tan
                        spotted dog. One woman was bare?headed and wore a black bodice, which gave a
                        singular value to her figure amid the all?obtaining yellow of the corn.
                    The scene in its simple and homely charm held the poetry of that happier side
                        of labour, of that most ancient of all industries—the husbandman’s—and of
                        the generous giving of the soil. Set in a frame of opulently coloured
                        woodland and sky, the stately red?brick and freestone house crowning the
                        high land and looking forth upon it all, the whole formed, to Honoria’s
                        thinking, a very noble picture. And then, of a sudden, in the midst of her
                        quiet enjoyment of it and a tenderness which the sight of it somehow begot
                        in her, she was seized by sharp, unreasoning regret that she must so soon
                        leave it. Unreasoning regret that she had engaged to go abroad this winter,
                        with poor, pretty, frivolous, young Lady Tobermory—spoilt child of society
                        and of wealth—now half?crazed, rendered desperate, by the fear that disease,
                        which had laid a threatening finger on her, might lay its whole hand,
                        cutting short her playtime and breaking her many toys. Of anything other
                        than toys and playtime she had no conception.—“Those brutes of doctors tell
                        Tobermory I must give up low gowns,” she wrote. “And I adore my neck and
                        shoulders. Everyone always has admired them. It makes me utterly miserable
                        to cover them up. And now that I am thinner I could have my gowns cut lower
                        than ever, nearly down to my waist, which makes it all the more intolerable.
                        I went to Dessaix about it, went over to Paris on purpose, though Tobermory was wild at my
                        travelling in the heat. He—Dessaix, I mean, not poor T.—was just as nice as
                        possible, and promised to invent new styles. Still, of course, I must look
                        dowdy at night in a high gown. Everybody does. I shall feel exactly like our
                        clergyman’s wife at Ellerhay, when she comes to dine with us at Christmas
                        and Easter and once in the summer. I refuse to have her oftener than that.
                        She has a long back and about fourteen children, which she seems to think a
                        great credit to her. I don’t, as they are ugly, and she is dreadfully poor.
                        She wears her Sunday silk with lace wound about, don’t you
                        know, but wound tight. That means full dress. I am buying some
                        lace, Duchesse at three and a half guineas a yard. I suppose I shall come to
                            winding that of an evening. Then I shall look like her. It
                        makes me cry dreadfully, and, as I tell Tobermory, that is worse for me than
                        any number of lungs. Darling H., if you really love me in the least, bring
                        nothing but high gowns. Perhaps I mayn’t mind quite so much if I never see
                        you in a low one.”—There had been much more to the same effect, pathetic in
                        its inadequacy and egoism. Only, as Honoria reflected, that is a style of
                        pathos dangerously liable to pall upon one. She sighed, for the prospect of
                        spending the winter participating in the frivolities, and striving to
                        restrain the indiscretions of this little, damaged butterfly, did not smile
                        upon her. She might have stayed on here, stayed on at Brockhurst, and worked
                        over the dear place as she had so often done before—helping Lady Calmady.
                        Why had she promised?—Well—because she had been rather restless, unsettled,
                        and at loose ends of late—
                    Whereupon the young lady bent down and unfastened the padlock with a certain
                        decision of movement, closed the gate, relocking it carefully behind her;
                        and started off across the deep grass of the paddock, her pale face very
                        serious, her small head held high. She would keep faith with Evelyn
                        Tobermory. Of course she would keep faith with her. It was not only a matter
                        of honour, but of expediency. It was much, very much, better to go. Yet
                        whence this sudden heat proceeded, and why the Egyptian journey assumed
                        suddenly such paramount desirability, she carefully did not stay to
                        inquire—an omission not, perhaps, without significance.
                    The half?dozen dainty fillies, meanwhile, who had eyed her shyly from their
                        station beneath the beech trees, trotted gently towards her with friendly
                        whinnyings, their fine ears pricked, their long tails carried well away in a
                        sweeping curve. Honoria went on to meet them. She was glad of something to
                        occupy her hands, some outside, concrete thing to occupy her thought. She took the foremost, a dark bay, by the
                        nose?strap of its leather head?stall, patted the beast’s sleek neck, looked
                        into its prominent, heavy?lidded eyes,—the blue film over the velvet?like
                        iris and pupil of them giving a singular softness of effect,—drew down the
                        fine, aristocratic head, and kissed the little star where the hair turned in
                        the centre of the smooth, hard forehead. It was as perfectly bred as she was
                        herself—so clean, so fresh, that to touch it was wholly pleasant! Then she
                        backed away from it, holding it at arm’s?length, noting how every line of
                        its limbs and body was graceful and harmonious, full of the promise of easy
                        strength, easy freedom of movement. That it was a trifle blown out in
                        barrel, from being at grass, only gave its contours an added suavity. It was
                        a lovely beast, a delicious beast! Honoria smiled upon it, talked to, parted
                        and coaxed it. While another young beauty, waxing brave, pushed its black
                        muzzle under her arm, and lipped at her jacket pockets in search of bread
                        and of apples. And, these good things once discovered, the rest of the drove
                        came about her, civilly, a trifle proudly, as befitted such fine ladies,
                        with no pushings and hustlings of vulgar greed. And they charmed her. She
                        was very much at one with them. She fed them fearlessly, thrusting one aside
                        in favour of another, giving each reward in due turn. She passed her hands
                        down over their slender limbs. The warm colours and the gloss of them were
                        pleasant to her eyes. And they smelt sweet, as did the trampled grass
                        beneath their unshod hoofs. For a while the human problem—its tragedy,
                        magnificence, inadequacy alike?ceased to trouble her. The poetry of these
                        beautiful, innocent, clean?feeding beasts was, for the moment, sufficient in
                        and by itself.
                    But, even while she thus played with and rejoiced in them, remembrance of
                        their owner came back to her, his maiming, as against their perfection of
                        finish, the lamentable disparity between his physical equipment and theirs.
                        Honoria’s expression lost its nonchalant gaiety. She pushed her gentle,
                        equine comrades away to left and right, not that they ceased to please but
                        that the human problem and the tragedy of it once more became dominant. She
                        walked on across the paddock rapidly, while the fillies, forming up behind
                        her, followed in single file treading a sinuous pathway through the grass,
                        the foremost one still pushing its black muzzle, now and again, under her
                        elbow and nibbling insinuatingly at her empty jacket pockets.—If only that
                        horrible misfortune had not befallen Richard Calmady! If—if— But then, had
                        it not befallen him, would he ever have been excited to so admirable effort,
                        would he ever have attained so absorbing
                        and vigorous a personality as he actually had? Again her thought turned on
                        itself, to provocation of momentary impatience.—Honoria unfastened the
                        second padlock with a return of her former decision. There were conclusions
                        she wished instinctively to avoid, from which she instinctively desired
                        escape. She forced aside the all?too?affectionate, bay filly who crowded
                        upon her, shot back the bar of the gate and relocked it. Then, once again,
                        she kissed the pretty beast on the forehead as it stretched its neck over
                        the top of the gate.
                    “Good?bye, dear lass,” she said. “Win your races and, when the time comes,
                        drop foals as handsome as yourself; and thank your stars you’re under
                        orders, and so have small chance to muddle your affairs—as with your good
                        looks, my dear, you most assuredly would, like all the rest of us.”
                    With which excellent advice she swung away down the last twenty yards of the
                        avenue and out on to the roadway of the red?brick and freestone bridge. Here
                        in the open, above the water, the air was sensibly fresher. From the paddock
                        the deserted fillies whinnied to her. The voices of the harvesters came
                        cheerily from the cornland. The men sat in the blond stubble, backed by a
                        range of upstanding sheaves. The women, bright in those frail blues, clear
                        pinks, and lilacs, knelt serving their meal. She of the black bodice stood
                        apart, her hands upon her hips, looking towards the bridge and its solitary
                        occupant. The tan?and?white spotted dog ran to and fro chasing field?mice
                        and yapped. The baby?children staggered after it, uttering excited
                        squeakings and cries. The lower cloud had parted in the west, disclosing an
                        upper stratum of pale gold, which widened upward and outward as the minutes
                        passed. Save immediately below, in the shadow of the bridge, this found
                        reflection in the water, overlaying it as with the blond of the stubble and
                        warmer tones of the sheaves. Honoria sat down sideways on the coping of the
                        parapet. She watched the moor?hens, dark of plumage, a splash of fiery
                        orange on their jaunty little heads, swim out with restless, jerky motion
                        from the edge of the reed?beds and break up the shining surface with
                        diverging lines of rippling, brown shadow. In the shade cast by the bridge,
                        trout rose at the dancing gnats and flies. She could see them rush upward
                        through the brown water. Sometimes they leapt clear of it, exposing their
                        silver bellies, pink?spotted sides, and the olive?green of their backs. They
                        dropped again with a flop, and rings circled outward from the place of their
                        disappearing.
                    All this Honoria saw, but dreamily, pensively. She realised, as never before, that, much as she might love
                        this place and the life of it, she was a guest only, a pilgrim and
                        sojourner. The absoluteness of her own independence ceased to please.—“Me
                        this unchartered freedom tries.” As she quoted the line, Honoria smiled.
                        These were, indeed, new aspects of herself! Where would they carry her, both
                        in thought and in action? It was a little alarming to contemplate that. And
                        then her pensiveness increased, a strange nostalgia taking her—amounting
                        almost to physical pain—for that same but?half?disclosed glory, that same
                        new and very exquisite fulness of life, apprehension of which had lately
                        been vouchsafed to her. If she could remain very still and undisturbed, if
                        she could empty her consciousness of all else, bend her whole will to an act
                        at once of determination and of reception, perhaps, it would be given her
                        clearly to see and understand. The idealist, the mystic, were very present
                        in Honoria just then. She fixed her eyes upon the shining surface of the
                        water. A conviction grew upon her that, could she maintain a certain mental
                        and emotional equilibrium, something of permanent and very vital importance
                        must take place.
                    Suddenly she heard footsteps upon the gravel of the roadway. She started,
                        turned deliberately, holding in check the agitation which possessed her, to
                        find herself confronted by the tall, pre?eminently modern and mundane figure
                        of Ludovic Quayle. Honoria gave herself a little shake of uncontrollable
                        impatience. For less than twopence?halfpenny she could have given the very
                        gentlemanlike intruder a shake too! He let her down with a bump, so to
                        speak, from regions mysterious and supernal, to regions altogether social
                        and of this world worldly. And yet she knew that such feelings were not a
                        little hard and unjust as entertained towards poor Mr. Quayle.
                    The young man, in any case, was happily ignorant of having offended. He
                        sauntered out on to the bridge, hat in hand, his head a trifle on one side,
                        his long neck directed slightly forward, his expression that of polite and
                        intimate amusement—but whether amusement at his own, or his
                        fellow?creatures’ expense, it would have been difficult to declare.
                    “At last, I find you, my dear Miss St. Quentin,” he said. “And I have sought
                        for you as for lost treasure. Forgive a biblical form of address—a
                        reminiscence merely of my father’s morning ministrations to my unmarried
                        sisters, the footmen, and the maids. He reads them the most surprising
                        little histories at times, which make me positively blush; but that’s a
                        detail. To account for my invasion of your idyllic solitude—I learned incidentally you proposed coming here
                        from Ormiston this week. I thought I would venture on an early attempt to
                        find you. But I drew the house blank, though assisted by Winter—the terrace
                        also blank. Then from the troco?ground I beheld that which looked promising,
                        coquetting with Dickie’s yearlings. So I followed on to know—my father and
                        the maids again—followed on to—to my reward.”
                    Mr. Quayle stood directly in front of her. He spoke with admirable urbanity,
                        yet with even greater rapidity than usual. His beautifully formed mouth
                        pursed itself up between the sentences, with that effect of indulgent
                        superiority which was at once so attractive and so excessively provoking.
                        But, for all that, Honoria perceived that for once in his life the young man
                        was distinctly, not to say acutely, nervous.
                    “The reward will be limited I’m afraid,” she replied, “for my temper is
                        unaccountably out of sorts this afternoon.”
                    “And, if one may make bold to inquire, why out of sorts, dear Miss St.
                        Quentin?”
                    He sat down on the parapet near her, crossed his legs, and fell to nursing
                        his left knee. The woman of the black bodice went up across the pale stubble
                        to her companions. She talked to them, nodding her head in the direction of
                        the bridge.
                    “I have promised to do a certain thing, and, having promised, of course I
                        must do it.”
                    Honoria looked away towards the harvesters up there among the gold of the
                        corn.
                    “And yet, now I have committed myself, thinking it over I find I dislike
                        doing it warmly.”
                    “The statement of the case is just a trifle vague,” Mr. Quayle remarked.
                        “But—if one may brave a suggestion—supersede a first duty by a second and,
                        of course, a greater. With a little exercise of imagination, a little
                        goodwill, a little assistance from a true friend thrown in perhaps, it is
                        generally quite possible to manage that, I think.”
                    “And you are prepared to play the part of the true friend?”
                    “Undoubtedly.”
                    “Then go to Cairo for the winter with Evelyn Tobermory. You must take no low
                        gowns—ah! poor little soul, it is pathetic, though—she’s forbidden to wear
                        them. And—let me stay here,” Honoria said.
                    Ludovic gazed at his hands as they clasped his knee, then he looked sideways
                        at his companion.
                    “Here, meaning—meaning Brockhurst, dear Miss St. Quentin?” he asked very
                        sweetly.
                    
                    “Meaning England,” she declared.
                    “England?—ah! really. That pleases me better. Patriotism is an excellent
                        virtue. The remark is not a wholly original one, but it comes in handy just
                        now, all the same.”
                    The young lady’s head went up. She was displeased. Turning sideways, she
                        leaned both hands on the stonework and stared down into the water. But
                        speedily she repented.
                    “See how the fish rise,” she said. “It really is a pity one hasn’t a
                        fly?rod.”
                    “I was under the impression you once told me that you objected to taking
                        life, except in self?defence or for purposes of commissariat. The trout
                        would almost certainly be muddy. And I am quite unconscious of being exposed
                        to any danger—at least from the trout.”
                    Miss St. Quentin kept her eyes fixed upon the water.
                    “I told you my temper was out of sorts,” she said.
                    “Is that a warning?” Ludovic inquired, with the utmost mildness.
                    Honoria was busy feeling in her jacket pockets. At the bottom of them a few
                        crumbs remained. She emptied these on to the surface of the water, by the
                        simple expedient of turning the pockets inside out.
                    “I know nothing about warnings,” she said. “I state a plain fact. You can
                        make of it what you please.”
                    The young man rose leisurely from his place, sauntered across the roadway,
                        and stood with his back to her, looking down the valley. The. harvesters,
                        their meal finished, moved away towards the farther side of the great
                        cornfield. The women followed them slowly, gleaning as they went. It was
                        very quiet. And again there came to Honoria that ache of longing for the
                        but?half?disclosed glory and fulness of life. It was there, an
                        actuality—could she but find it, had she but the courage and the wit. Then,
                        from the open moorland beyond the park palings came the sound of horses
                        trotting sharply. Ludovic Quayle turned and recrossed the road. He smiled,
                        but his superfine manner, his effect of slight impertinence were, for the
                        moment, in abeyance.
                    “Miss St. Quentin,” he said, “what is the use of fencing any longer? 1 have
                        done that which I engaged to do, namely displayed the patience of
                        innumerable asses. And—if I may be pardoned mentioning such a thing—the
                        years pass. Really they do. And I seem to get no forwarder! My position
                        becomes slightly ludicrous.”
                    “I know it, I know it,” Honoria cried penitently.
                    
                    “That I am ludicrous?”
                    “No, no,” she protested, “that I have been unreasonable and traded on your
                        forbearance, that I have done wrong in allowing you to wait.”
                    “That you could not very well help,” he said, “since I chose to wait. And,
                        indeed, I greatly preferred waiting as long as there seemed to be a hope
                        there was something—anything, in short—to wait for.”
                    “Ah! but that is precisely what I have never been sure about myself—whether
                        there really was anything to wait for or not.”
                    She sat straight on the coping of the parapet again. Her face bore the most
                        engaging expression. There was a certain softness in her aspect to?day. She
                        was less of a youth, a comrade, so it seemed to Mr. Quayle, more distinctly,
                        more consciously a woman. But now, to the sound of trotting horse?hoofs was
                        added that of wheels. With a clang the lodge?gates were thrown open.
                    “And are you still uncertain? In the back of your mind is there still a
                        trifle of doubt?—If so, give me the benefit of it,” the young man pleaded,
                        half laughingly, half brokenly.
                    A carriage passed under the grey archway of the red?brick and freestone
                        lodges. Rapidly it came on down the wide, smooth, string?coloured road—a
                        space of neatly kept turf on either side—under the shade of the
                        heavy?foliaged elm trees. Mr. Quayle glanced at it, and paused with raised
                        eyebrows.
                    “I call you to witness that I do not swear, dear Miss St. Quentin, though men
                        have been known to become blasphemous on slighter provocation than this,” he
                        said. “However, the rather violently?approaching interruption will be soon
                        over, I hope and believe; since the driving is that of Richard Calmady of
                        Brockhurst when his temper, like your own, being somewhat out of sorts, he,
                        as Jehu the son of Nimshi of old—my father’s morning ministrations to the
                        maids again—driveth furiously.”
                    Then, with an air of humorous resignation, his mouth working a little, his
                        long neck directed forward as in mildly surprised inquiry, he stood watching
                        the approaching mail?phaeton. The wheels of it made a hollow rumbling, the
                        tramp of the horses was impetuous, the pole?chains rattled, as it swung out
                        on to the bridge and drew up. The grooms whipped down and ran round to the
                        horses’ heads. And these stood, a little extended, still and rigid as of
                        bronze, the red of their open nostrils and the silver mounting of their
                        harness very noticeable. Lady Calmady
                        called to Mr. Quayle. The young man passed round at the back of the
                        carriage, and, standing on the far side of the roadway, talked with her.
                    Honoria St. Quentin remained sitting on the parapet of the bridge.
                    A singular disinclination to risk any movement had come upon her. Not the
                        present situation in relation to Ludovic Quayle, but that other situation of
                        the but?half?disclosed glory, the new and exquisite fulness of life,
                        oppressed her, penetrating her whole being to the point of physical
                        weakness. Questioningly, yet with entire unself?consciousness, she looked up
                        at Richard Calmady. And he, from the exalted height of the driving?seat,
                        looked down at her. A dark, cloth rug was wrapped tight round him from the
                        waist downward. It concealed the high driving?iron against which his feet
                        rested. It concealed the strap which steadied him in his place. His person
                        appeared finely proportioned. His head and face were surprisingly handsome
                        seen thus from below—though it must be conceded the expression of the latter
                        was very far from angelic.
                    “You were well advised to stay at home, Honoria,” he said. There was a
                        grating tone in his voice.
                    “The function was even more distinguished for dulness than you expected?”
                    “On the contrary, it was not in the least dull. It was actively
                        objectionable, ingeniously unpleasant. Whereas this”—
                    His face softened a little. He glanced at the golden water and cornland, the
                        lush green of the paddock, the rich, massive colouring of woodland and sky.
                        Honoria glanced at it likewise, and, so doing, rose to her feet. That
                        nostalgia of things new and glorious ached in her. Yet the pain of it had a
                        strange and intimate charm, making it unlike any pain she had ever yet felt.
                        It hurt her very really, it made her weak, yet she would not have had it
                        cease.
                    “Yes, it is all very lovely, isn’t it?” she said.
                    She laid her hand on the folded leather of the carriage hood. Again she
                        looked up.
                    “It is a good deal to have this—always—your own, to come back to,
                        Richard.”
                    She spoke sadly, almost unwillingly. Dickie did not answer, but he looked
                        down, a certain violence and energy very evident in him, his blue eyes hard,
                        and, in the depth of them, desolate as the sky of a winter night. Calmly,
                        yet in a way desperately as those who dare inquiry beyond the range of
                        permitted human speech, the young man and woman looked at one another.
                            Lady Calmady’s sweet voice, meanwhile,
                        went on in kindly question. Ludovic Quayle’s in well?placed, slightly
                        elaborate answer. The near horse threw back its head and the pole?chains
                        rattled smartly.—Honoria’s lips parted, but the words, if words indeed there
                        were, died in her throat. She raised her hands, as though putting a tangible
                        and actual presence away from her. She did not change colour; but for the
                        moment her delicate features appeared thickened, as by a rush of blood. She
                        was almost plain. Yet the effect was inexpressibly touching. It was as
                        though she had received some mysterious injury which she was dumb, incapable
                        to express. She let her hands drop at her sides, turned away and walked to
                        the far end of the bridge.
                    Suddenly Richard’s voice came to her, aggressive, curt.
                    “Look out, Ludovic—stand clear of the wheel.”
                    The horses sprang forward, the grooms scrambled up at the back, and the
                        carriage swung away from the brightness of the open to the gloom of the
                        avenue and up the long hill to the house.
                    Mr. Quayle contemplated it for a minute or so. Then, with an air of amused
                        toleration, he followed Miss St. Quentin across the bridge.
                    “Poor, dear Dickie Calmady, poor, dear Dickie!” he said. “He attempts the
                        impossible. Fails to attain it—as a matter of course; and, meanwhile, misses
                        the possible—equally as a matter of course. It is all very magnificent, no
                        doubt, but it is also not a little uncomfortable, at times, for other
                        people.—However that trifle of criticism is, after all, beside the mark. Now
                        that the whirlwind has ceased, Miss St. Quentin, may the still, small voice
                        of my own affairs presume to make itself”—
                    But there he stopped abruptly.
                    “My dear friend,” he asked in quick anxiety, “what is the matter? Pardon me,
                        but what on earth has happened to you?”
                    For Honoria leaned both elbows on the low, carved pillar terminating the
                        masonry of the parapet. She covered her face with her hands. And,
                        incontestably, she shuddered queerly from head to foot.
                    “Wait half a second,” she said, in a stifled voice. “It’s nothing—I’m all
                        right.”
                    Slowly she raised herself, and took a long breath. Then she turned to her
                        faithful lover, showing him a brave, if somewhat drawn and tired,
                        countenance.
                    “Ludovic,” she said gently, “don’t, don’t please let us talk any more about
                        all that. And don’t, I entreat you, wait any longer. If there was any
                        uncertainty, if there was a doubt in the back of my mind, it’s gone. Forgive
                        me—this must sound brutal —but there is no
                        more doubt. I can’t marry you. I am sorry, horribly sorry—for you have been
                        as charming to me as a man could be—but I shall never be able to marry
                        you.”
                    Mr. Quayle’s expression retained its sweetness, even its effect of amusement,
                        though his lips quivered, and his eyelids were a little red.
                    “I do not come up to the requirements of the grand passion?” he said. “Alas!
                        poor me”—
                    “No, no, it isn’t that,” Honoria protested.
                    “Ah, then,”—he paused, with an air of extraordinary intelligence—“perhaps
                        someone else does?”
                    “Yes,” she said simply, “I don’t like it, but it’s there, and so I’ve got to
                        go through with it—someone else does.”
                    “In that case it is indeed hopeless! I give it up,” he cried.
                    He moved aside and stood gazing at the rising trout in the golden?brown
                        water. Then he raised his head sharply, as in obedience to a thought
                        suddenly occurring to him, and gazed at Brockhurst House. The brightness of
                        the western sky found reflection in its many windows. A noble cheerfulness
                        seemed to pervade it, as it crowned the hillside amid its gardens and
                        far?ranging woods.
                    “By all that’s”—Mr. Quayle began. But he repressed the exclamation, and his
                        expression was wholly friendly as he returned to Miss St. Quentin.
                    “Good?bye,” he said.—“I am glad, honestly glad, you have found the grand
                        passion, though the object of it can’t, in the first blush of the affair, be
                        altogether persona grata to myself. But,
                        to show that really I have a little root of magnanimity in me, I am quite
                        prepared to undertake a winter at Cairo, plus Evelyn Tobermory and minus low
                        dresses, if that will enable you to stay on here—I mean in England—of
                        course.”
                    He pursed up his beautiful mouth, he carried his head on one side with the
                        liveliest effect of provocation, as he held the young lady’s hand while
                        bidding her farewell.
                    “Out of my heart I hope you will be very happy,” he said.
                    “I shall never be anything but Honoria St. Quentin,” she answered rather
                        hastily. Then she softened, forgiving him.—“Oh! why,” she said, “why will
                        you make me quarrel with you just now, just at the last?”
                    “Because—because”—Mr. Quayle’s voice broke, though his superior smile
                        remained to him.—“I think I will not prolong the interview,” he said. “To be
                        frank with you, dear Miss St. Quentin, I am about as miserable as is
                        consonant with com? plete sanity and
                        excellent health. I do not propose to blow my brains out, but I think—yes,
                        thanks—you appreciate the desirability of that course of action too?—I think
                        it is about time I went.”
                
                
                    CHAPTER X
                    CONCERNING A DAY OF HONEST WARFARE AND A SUNSET HARBINGER NOT
                        OF THE NIGHT BUT OF THE DAWN
                    THAT episode, upon the bridge spanning the Long Water, brought
                        Richard would?be saint, Richard pilgrim along the great white road which
                        leads onward to Perfection, into lively collision with Richard the natural
                        man, not to mention Richard the “wild bull in a net.” These opposing forces
                        engaged battle, with the consequence that the carriage horses took the hill
                        at a rather breakneck pace. Not that Dickie touched them, but that, he being
                        vibrant, they felt his mood down the length of the reins and responded to
                        it.
                    “Ludovic need hardly have been in such a prodigious hurry,” he broke out. “He
                        might have allowed one a few days’ grace. It was a defect of taste to come
                        over immediately; but then all that family’s taste is liable to lapses.”
                    Promptly he repented, ashamed both of his anger and such self?revealing
                        expression of it.
                    “I daresay it’s all for the best though. Better a thing should be nipped in
                        the bud than in the blossom. And this puts it all on a right footing. One
                        might easily drift into depending too much upon Honoria. I own I was
                        dangerously near doing that this spring. I don’t mind telling you so now,
                        mother, because this, you see, disposes finally of the matter.”
                    His voice contended oddly with the noise of the wheels, rattle of the
                        pole?chains, pounding of the hoofs of the pulling horses. The sentences came
                        to Lady Calmady’s ears disjointed, difficult to follow and interpret.
                        Therefore she answered slightly at random.
                    “My dearest, I could have kept, her longer in the spring if I had only
                        known,” she said, a disquieting suspicion of lost opportunity assailing her.
                        “But, from certain things which you said, I thought you preferred our being
                        alone.”
                    “So I did. I wanted her to go because I wanted her to stay. Do you see?”
                    “Ah, yes! I see,” Katherine replied. And at that moment, it must be conceded, her sentiments were not
                        conspicuously pacific towards her devoted adherent, Mr. Quayle.
                    “We’ve a good many interests in common,” Dickie went on, “and there seemed a
                        chance of one’s settling down into a rather charming friendship with her. It
                        was a beguiling prospect. And, for that very reason, it was best she should
                        depart. The prospect, in all its beguilingness, renewed itself to?day after
                        luncheon.”?He paused, handling the plunging horses.—“And so, after all,
                        Ludovic shall be reckoned welcome; for, as I say, I might have come to
                        depend on her. And one’s a fool—I ought to have learnt that salutary lesson
                        by this time—a rank fool, to depend on anybody or anything, save oneself,
                        simply and solely oneself”—his tone softened—“and upon you, most dear and
                        long?suffering mother.—Therefore the dream of friendship goes overboard
                        along with all the rest of one’s little illusions. And every illusion one
                        rids oneself of is so much to the good. It lightens the ship. It lessens the
                        chances of foundering. Clearly it is so much pure gain.”
                    That evening, pleading—unexampled occurrence in her case—a headache as
                        excuse, Miss St. Quentin did not put in an appearance at dinner. Nor did
                        Richard put in an appearance at breakfast next morning. At an early hour he
                        had received a communication earnestly requesting his presence at the
                        Westchurch Infirmary. His mission promised to be a melancholy one, yet he
                        was not sorry for the demand made by it upon his time and thought. For,
                        notwithstanding the philosophic tone he had adopted with Lady Calmady in
                        speaking of that friendship which, if not nipped in the bud, might have
                        reached perils of too luxuriant blossoming, the would?be saint and the
                        natural man, the pilgrim on the highroad to Perfection and that very
                        inconvenient animal “the wild bull in a net,” kept up warfare within Richard
                        Calmady. They were hard at it even yet, when, in the fair freshness of the
                        September morning—the grasses and hedge?fruit, the wild flowers, and
                        low?growing, tangled coppices by the roadside, still heavy with dew—he drove
                        over to Westchurch. The day was bright, with flying cloud and a westerly
                        breeze. The dust was laid, and the atmosphere, cleared by the storm of the
                        preceding afternoon, had a smack of autumn in it. It was one of those
                        delicious, yet distracting, days when the sea calls, and when whosoever
                        loves sea?faring grows restless, must seek movement, seek the open, strain
                        his eyes towards the margin of the land—be the coast?line never so far
                        distant—tormented by desire for sight of the blue water, and the strong and
                        naked joys of the mighty ridge and furrow where go the gallant ships.
                    
                    With the upspringing of the wind at dawn, that calling of the sea had made
                        itself heard to Richard. At first it suggested only the practical temptation
                        of putting the Reprieve into commission, and engaging Lady
                        Calmady to go forth with him on a three or four months’ cruise. But that, as
                        he speedily convinced himself, was but a pitifully cheap expedient, a
                        shirking of voluntarily assumed responsibility, a childish cheating of
                        discontent, rather than an honestly attempted cure of it. If cure was to be
                        achieved, the canker must be excised, boldly cut out, not overlaid merely by
                        some trifle of partially concealing plaster. For he knew well enough, as all
                        sea?lovers know—and, as he drove through the dappled sunlight and shadow,
                        frankly admitted—that though the sea itself very actually and really called,
                        yet its calling was the voice and symbol of much over and above itself. For
                        in it speaks the eternal necessity of going forward, that hunger and thirst
                        for the absolute and ultimate which drives every human creature whose heart
                        and soul and intellect are truly animate. And to him, just now, it spoke
                        more particularly of the natural instincts of his manhood—of ambition, of
                        passion, of headlong desire of sensation, excitement, adventure, of just all
                        that, in fact, which he had forsworn, had agreed with himself to cast aside
                        and forget. And, thinking of this, suspicion assailed him that forswearing
                        had been slightly insincere and perfunctory. He accused himself of
                        nourishing the belief that giving he would also receive,—and that in
                        kind,—while that any sacrifice which he offered would be returned to him
                        doubled in value. Casting his bread upon the waters, he accused himself of
                        having expected to find it, not “after many days,” but immediately—a full
                        baker’s dozen ready to hand in his pocket. His motives had not been wholly
                        pure. Actually, though not at the time consciously, he had essayed to strike
                        a bargain with the Almighty.
                    Just as he reached the top of the long, straight hill leading down into
                        Westchurch, Richard arrived at these unflattering conclusions. On either
                        side the road, upon the yellow surface of which the sunlight played through
                        the tossing leaves of the plane trees, were villas of very varied and hybrid
                        styles of architecture. They were, for the most part, smothered in creepers,
                        and set in gardens gay with blossom. Below lay the sprawling, red?brick
                        town, blotted with purple shadow. A black canal meandered through the heart
                        of it, crossed by mean, humpbacked bridges. The huge, amorphous buildings of
                        its railway station—engine sheds, goods warehouses, trailing of swiftly
                        dispersed white smoke—the grime and clamour of all that, its factory
                        buildings and tall chimneys, were very evident, as were the pale towers
                            of its churches. And beyond the ugly,
                        pushing, industrial commonplace of it, striking a very different note, the
                        blue ribbon of the still youthful Thames, backed by high?lying chalk?lands
                        fringed with hanging woods, traversed a stretch of flat, green meadows.
                        Richard’s eyes rested upon the scene absently, since thought just now had
                        more empire over him than any outward seeing. For he perceived that he must
                        cleanse himself yet further of self?seeking. Those words, “if thou wilt be
                        perfect sell that thou hast and give to the poor, and follow thou me,” have
                        not a material and objective significance merely. They deal with each
                        personal desire, even the apparently most legitimate; with each indulgence
                        of personal feeling, even the apparently most innocent; with the inward
                        attitude and the atmosphere of the mind even more closely than with outward
                        action and conduct. And so Richard reached the conclusion that he must strip
                        himself yet nearer to the bone. He must digest the harsh truth that virtue
                        is its own reward in the sense that it is its only reward, and must look for
                        nothing beyond that. He had grown slack of late, seduced by visions of
                        pleasant things permitted most men but to him forbidden; and wearied, too,
                        by the length of the way and inevitable monotony of it now first heat of
                        enthusiasm had evaporated. Well—it was all very simple. He must just
                        re?dedicate himself. And in this stern and chastened frame of mind he drove
                        through the bustle of the country town—Saturday, market day, its streets
                        unusually alive—nodding to an acquaintance here and there in passing, two or
                        three of his tenant farmers, Mr. Cathcart of Newlands in on county business,
                        Goodall the octogenarian miller from Parson’s Holt, and Lemuel Image the
                        brewer, bursting out of an obviously new suit of very showy tweeds. Then, at
                        the main door of the Infirmary, helped by the stalwart, hospital porter, he
                        got down from the dog?cart; and subsequently—raked by curious eyes, saluted
                        by hardly repressed tittering from the out?patients waiting en queue for admission to the dispensary—he
                        made his slow way along the bare, vaultlike, stone passage to the accident
                        ward, in the far corner of which a bed was shut off from the rest by an
                        arrangement of screens and of curtains.
                    And it was in the same chastened frame of mind that, some four or five hours
                        later, Richard entered the dining?room at Brockhurst. The two ladies had
                        nearly finished luncheon and were about to rise from the table. Lady Calmady
                        greeted him very gladly; but abstained from inquiry as to his doings or from
                        comment on the lateness of the hour, since experience had long ago taught
                        her that of all known animals man is the one of whom it is least profitable for woman to ask
                        questions. Dickie was here at home, alive, intact, her eyes were rejoiced by
                        the sight of him, that was sufficient. If he had anything to tell her, no
                        doubt he would tell it later. For the rest, she had something to tell him;
                        but that too must wait until time and circumstance were propitious, since
                        the conveying of it involved delicate diplomacies. It must be handled
                        lightly. For the life of her she must avoid all appearance of eagerness, all
                        appearance of attaching serious importance to the communication. Lady
                        Calmady had learned, this morning, that Honoria St. Quentin did not propose
                        to marry Ludovic Quayle. The young lady, whose charming nonchalance was
                        curiously in eclipse to?day, had given her to understand so much; but very
                        briefly, the subject evidently being rather painful to her. She was silent
                        and a little distrait; but she was also very gentle, displaying a
                        disposition to follow Katherine about wherever she went, and a pretty zeal
                        in doing small odd jobs for her. Katherine was touched and tenderly amused
                        by her manner, which was as that of a charming child coveting assurance that
                        it need not be ashamed of itself, and that it has not really done anything
                        naughty! But Katherine sighed too, watching this strong, graceful, capable
                        creature; for, if things had been otherwise with Dickie, how thankfully she
                        would have given the keeping of his future into this woman’s hands. She had
                        ceased to be jealous even of her son’s love. Gladly, gratefully, would she
                        have shared that love, accepting the second place, if only—but all that was
                        beyond possibility of hope. Still the friendship of which he had spoken
                        somewhat bitterly yesterday—poor darling—remained. Ludovic Quayle’s
                        pretensions—she felt very pitifully towards that accomplished gentleman, all
                        his good qualities had started into high relief—but, his pretensions no
                        longer barring the way to that friendship, she pledged herself to work for
                        the promotion of it. Dickie was too severe in self?repression, was
                        over?strained in stoicism; and, ignoring the fact that in his fixity of
                        purpose, his exaggerations of self?abnegation, he proved himself very much
                        her own son, she determined secretly, cautiously, lovingly, to combat all
                        that.
                    It was, therefore, with warm satisfaction that, as Honoria was about to rise
                        from the table, she observed Richard emerge, in a degree, from his
                        abstraction, and heard him say:—
                    “You told me you’d like to ride over to Farley this afternoon and see the
                        home for my crippled people. Are you too tired after your headache, or do
                        you still care to go?”
                    “Oh! I’m not tired, thanks,” Honoria answered. Then she hesitated; and
                        Richard, looking at her, was aware, as on the bridge yesterday, of a sudden and singular
                        thickening of her features, which, while marring her beauty, rendered her
                        aspect strangely pathetic, as of one who sustains some mysterious hurt. And
                        to him it seemed, for the moment, as though both that hurt and the
                        infliction of it bore subtle relation to himself. Common sense discredited
                        the notion as unpermissibly fantastic, still it influenced and softened his
                        manner.
                    “But you know you are looking frightfully done up yourself, Richard,” she
                        went on, with a charming air of half?reluctant protest. “Isn’t he, Cousin
                        Katherine? Are you sure you want to ride this afternoon? Please don’t go out
                        just on my account.”
                    “Oh! I’m right enough,” he answered. “I’d infinitely rather go out.”
                    He pushed back his chair and reached down for his crutches. Still the
                        fantastic notion that, all unwittingly, he had been guilty of doing Honoria
                        some strange injury, clung to him. He was sensible of the desire to offer
                        reparation. This made him more communicative than he would otherwise have
                        been.
                    “I saw a man die this morning—that’s all,” he said. “I know it’s stupid; but
                        one can’t help it, it knocks one about a bit. You see he didn’t want to die,
                        poor fellow, though, God knows, he’d little enough to live for—or to live
                        with, for that matter.”
                    “Your factory hand?” Honoria asked.
                    Richard slipped out of his chair and stood upright.
                    “Yes, my factory hand,” he answered. “Dear, old Knott was fearfully savage
                        about it. He was so tremendously keen on the case, and made sure of pulling
                        him through. But the poor boy had been sliced up a little too
                        thoroughly.”—Richard paused, smiling at Honoria. “So all one could do was to
                        go with him just as far as is permitted out into the great silence, and
                        then—then come home to luncheon. The home at Farley loses its point, rather,
                        now he is dead. Still there are others, plenty of others, enough to satisfy
                        even Knott’s greed of riveting broken human crockery.—Oh yes! I shall enjoy
                        riding over, if you are still good to come. Four o’clock—that’ll suit you?
                        I’ll order the horses.”
                    And so, in due course, the two rode forth together into the brightness of the
                        September afternoon. The sea still called; but Dickie’s ears were deaf to
                        all dangerous allurements and excitations resident in that calling. It had
                        to him, just now, only the pensive charm of a far?away melody, which, though
                        no doubt of great and immediate import to others, had ceased to be any
                        concern of his. Beside the deathbed in the hospital ward he had renewed his vows, and the efficacy of
                        that renewal was very present with him. It made for repose. It laid the evil
                        spirit of defiance, of self?consciousness, of humiliation, so often
                        obtaining in his intercourse with women—a spirit begotten by the perpetual
                        prick of his deformity, and in part, too, by his determined adoption of the
                        ascetic attitude in regard to the affections. He was spent by the emotions
                        of the morning, but that also made for repose. For the time being devils
                        were cast out. He was tranquil, yet exalted. His eyes had a smile in them,
                        as though they looked beyond the limit of things transitory and material
                        into the regions of the Pure Idea, where the eternal values are disclosed
                        and Peace has her dwelling. And, precisely because of all this, he could
                        take Honoria’s presence lightly, be chivalrously solicitous of her
                        entertainment and well?being, and talk to her with greater freedom than ever
                        heretofore. He ceased to be on his guard with her because, in good truth, it
                        seemed to him there ceased to be anything to guard against. For the time
                        being, at all events, he had got to the other side of all that; and so she
                        and his relation to her, had become part of that charming but far?away
                        melody which was no concern of his—though mighty great and altogether worthy
                        concern of others, of Ludovic Quayle, for example.—And in his present
                        tranquil humour he could listen to the sweetness of that melody
                        ungrudgingly. It was pleasant. He could enjoy it without envy, though it was
                        none of his.
                    But to Honoria’s seeing it must be owned, matters shaped themselves very
                        differently. For the usually unperturbed, the chaste and fearless soul of
                        her endured violent assaults, violent commotions, the origin of which she
                        but partially understood. And these Richard’s frankness, his courteous, in
                        some sort brotherly, good?fellowship, served to intensify rather than allay.
                        The feeling of the noble horse under her, the cool, westerly wind in her
                        face, went to brace her nerves, and restore the self?possession, courage of
                        judgment, and clearness of thought, which had been lacking to her during the
                        past twenty?four hours. Nevertheless she rode as through a
                        but?newly?discovered country, familiar objects displaying alien aspects,
                        familiar phases assuming unlooked?for significance, a something challenging
                        and fateful meeting her everywhere. The whole future seemed to hang in the
                        balance: and she waited, dreading yet longing, to see the scale turn.
                    This afternoon the harvesters were carrying the corn. Red?painted waggons,
                        drawn by sleek, heavy?made, cart?horses, crawled slowly across the blond
                        stubble. It was pretty to see the rusty?
                        gold sheaves tossed up from the shining prongs of the pitchforks on to the
                        mountainous load. Honoria and Richard watched this, a little minute, from
                        the grass?ride bordering the roadway beneath the elms. Next came the
                        high?lying moorland, beyond the lodges. The fine?leaved heath was thick with
                        red?purple blossom. Patches of dusky heather were frosted with dainty pink.
                        Spikes of genista and beds of needle?furze showed sharply yellow, vividly
                        green, and a fringe of blue campanula, with frail, quivering bells, outlined
                        all open spaces. The face of the land had been washed by the rain. It shone
                        with an inimitable cleanliness, as though consciously happy in relief from
                        all soil of dust. And it was here, the open country stretching afar on all
                        sides, that Dickie began talking, not, as at first, in desultory fashion,
                        but of matters nearly pertaining and closely interesting to himself.
                    “You know,” he said, as they walked the horses quietly, neck to neck, along
                        the moorland road, “I don’t go in for system?making or for reforms on any
                        big scale. That doesn’t come within my province. I must leave that to
                        politicians and to men who are in the push of the world. I admire it. I
                        rejoice in the hot?headed, narrow?brained, whole?hearted agitator, who
                        believes that his system adopted, his reform carried through, the whole show
                        will instantly be put straight. Such faith is very touching.”
                    “And the reformer has sometimes done some little good after all,” Honoria
                        commented.
                    “Of course he has,” Dickie agreed. “Only as a rule, poor dear, he can’t be
                        contented but that his special reform should be the final one, that his
                        system should be the universal panacea. And in point of fact no reform is
                        final this side of death, and no panacea is universal, save that which the
                        Maker of the Universe chooses to work out—is working out now, if we could
                        any way grasp it—through the slow course of unnumbered ages. Let the
                        reformer do all he can, but don’t let him turn sour because his pet reform,
                        his pet system, sinks away and is swallowed up in the great sea of
                        things—sea of human progress, if you like. Every system is bound to prove
                        too small, every reform ludicrously inadequate—be it never so
                        radical—because material conditions are perpetually changing, while man in
                        his mental, emotional and physical aspects remains always precisely the
                        same.”
                    They passed from the breezy upland into the high?banked lane which, leading
                        downwards, joins the great London and Portsmouth Road just beyond Farley
                        Row.
                    
                    “And—and that is where I come in!” Richard said, turning a little in the
                        saddle and smiling sweet?temperedly, yet with a suggestion of self?mockery,
                        upon his companion. “Just because, in essential respects, mankind
                        remains—notwithstanding modifications of his environment—substantially the
                        same, from the era of the Pentateuch to the era of the Rougon?Macquarts,
                        there must always be a lot of wreckage, of waste, and refuse humanity. The
                        inauguration of each new system, each new reform—religious, political,
                        educational, economic—practically they’re all in the same boat—let alone the
                        inevitable breakdown or petering out of each, necessarily produces a fresh
                        crop of such waste and refuse material. And in that a man like myself, who
                        does not aspire to cure or to construct, but merely to alleviate and to pick
                        up the pieces, finds his chance.”
                    And Honoria listened, musing—approved, enthusiasm gaining her; yet protested,
                        since, even while she admired, she rebelled a little on his account, and for
                        his sake.
                    “But it is rather a hard life, surely, Richard,” she said, “which you propose
                        to yourself? Always the pieces, the thing broken and spoiled, never the
                        thing in its beauty, full of promise, and whole!”
                    “It is less hard for me than for most,” he answered, “or should be so. After
                        all, I am to the manner born—a bit of human wreckage myself, with which, but
                        for the accident of wealth, things would have gone pretty badly. I used to
                        be horribly scared sometimes, as a small boy, thinking to what uses I might
                        be put if the kindly, golden rampart ever gave.”
                    He became silent. As for Honoria, she had neither courage. to look at or to
                        answer him just then.
                    “And you see, I’m absolutely free,” he added presently.—“ I am alone, always
                        shall be so. If the life is hard, I ask no one to share it, so I may make it
                        what I like.”
                    “Oh! no, no—you misunderstand, Richard! I didn’t mean that,” Honoria cried
                        quickly, half under her breath.
                    Again he looked at her, smiling.
                    “Didn’t you? All the kinder of you,” he said.
                    Thereupon regret, almost intolerable in its poignancy, invaded Miss St.
                        Quentin that she would have to go away, to go back to the world and all the
                        foolish obtaining fashions of it; that she should have to take that
                        pre?eminently well?cushioned and luxurious winter’s journey to Cairo. She
                        longed inexpressibly to remain here, to assist in these experiments made in
                        the name of Holy Charity. She longed inexpressibly to— And there Honoria
                        paused, even in thought. Yet she glanced at the young man riding beside her—at the handsome
                        profile, still and set in outline, the suggestion, it was no more, of a scar
                        running downward across the left cheek; at the well?made, upright,
                        broad?shouldered figure, and then at the saddle, peaked, back and front,
                        with oddly?shaped appendages to it resembling old?fashioned holsters.—And,
                        as yesterday upon the bridge, the ache of a pain at once sweet and terrible
                        laid hold of her, making her queerly hint. The single street, sun?covered,
                        sleepy, empty save for a brewer’s dray and tax?cart or two standing before
                        the solid Georgian portals of the White Lion Inn, for a straggling tail of
                        children bearing home small shoppings and jugs of supper beer, for a flock
                        of grey geese proceeding with aggressively self?righteous demeanour along
                        the very middle of the roadway and lowering long necks to hiss defiance at
                        the passer?by, and for an old black retriever dozing peacefully beneath one
                        of the rustling sycamores in front of Josiah Appleyard, the saddler’s
                        shop—all these, as she looked at them, became uncertain in outline, and
                        reeled before Honoria’s eyes. For the moment she experienced a difficulty in
                        keeping steady in the saddle. But the horses still walked quietly, neck to
                        neck, their shadows, and those of their riders growing longer, narrower,
                        outstretched before them as the sun declined in the west. All the future
                        hung in the balance; but the scale had not turned as yet.
                    Then Richard’s voice took up its parable again.
                    “Perhaps it’s a rather fraudulently comfortable doctrine, yet it does strike
                        one that the justification of disaster, in all its many forms, is the
                        opportunity it affords the individualist. He may use it for
                        self?aggrandisement, or for self?devotion—though I rather shy at so showy a
                        word as that last. However, the use he makes of it isn’t the point. What is
                        the point, to my mind at least is this—though it doesn’t sound magnificent,
                        it hardly indeed sounds cleanly—that whatever trade fails, whatever
                        profession, thanks to the advance of civilisation, becomes obsolete, that of
                        the man with the dust?cart, of the scavenger, of the sweeper, won’t.”
                    Once more Richard smiled upon his companion charmingly, yet with something of
                        self?mockery.
                    “And so, you see, having knocked about enough to grow careless of niceties of
                        prejudice, and to acquire an immense admiration for any vocation which
                        promises permanence, I join hands with the dustman. In the light of science,
                        and in that of religion alike, nothing really is common or unclean. And
                        then—then, if you are beyond the pale in any case, as some of us are, it’s a
                        little too transparently cheap to be afraid of soiling”—He broke off.— “Away there to the left, Honoria,” he
                        said. “You see the house? The yellow?washed one, with the gables and tiled
                        roofs—there, back on the slope.—Bagshaw, the Bond Street poulterer, had it
                        for years. His lease ran out in the spring, and happily he didn’t care to
                        renew. Had bought himself an up?to?date, villa residence somewhere in the
                        suburbs—Chislehurst, I believe. So I took the place over. It will do for a
                        beginning—the small end of the wedge of my scavenger’s business. There are
                        over five acres of garden and orchard, and plenty of rooms on each floor,
                        which gives good range for the disabled to move about in—and the stairs,
                        only one flight, are easy. One has to think of these details. And—well, the
                        house commands a magnificent view of Clerke’s Green, and the geese on it,
                        than which nothing clearly can be more exciting!”
                    The groom rode forward and opened the gate. Before the square, outstanding
                        porch Richard drew up.
                    “I should like to come in with you,” he said. “But you see it’s rather a
                        business getting off one’s horse, and I can’t very well manage the stairs.
                        So I’ll wait about till you are ready. Don’t hurry. I want you to see all
                        the arrangements, if it doesn’t bore you, and make suggestions. The
                        carpenters are there, doing overtime. They’ll let you through if the
                        caretaker’s out.”
                    Thus admonished, Miss St. Quentin dismounted and made her way into the house.
                        A broad passage led straight through it. The open door at the farther end
                        disclosed a vista of box?edged path and flower?borders where, in gay ranks,
                        stood tall sunflowers, holly?hocks, Michaelmas?daisies, and such like.
                        Beyond was orchard, the round?headed apple?trees, bright with polished
                        fruit, rising from a carpet of grass. The rooms, to left and right of the
                        passage, were pleasantly sun?warmed and mellow of aspect, the ceilings of
                        them crossed by massive beams. Honoria visited them, dutifully observant.
                        She encountered the head carpenter, an acquaintance and ally during those
                        four years so great part of which she had spent at Brockhurst. She talked
                        with him, making inquiries concerning wife, children, and trade, incident to
                        such a meeting, her face very serious all the while, the skirt of her habit
                        gathered up in one hand, her gait a trifle stiff and measured owing to her
                        high riding?boots. But, though she acquitted herself in all kindliness of
                        conversation, though she conscientiously inspected each separate apartment,
                        and noted the cheerful comeliness of orchard and garden, it must be owned
                        all these remained singularly distant from her actual emotion and thought.
                        She was glad to be alone. She was glad to be away from Richard Calmady,
                        though zealously obedient to his wishes in
                        respect of this inspection. For his presence became increasingly oppressive
                        from the intensity of feeling it produced in her, and which she was, at
                        present, powerless to direct toward any reasonable and definite end. This
                        rendered her tongue?tied, and, as she fancied, stupid. Her unreadiness
                        mortified her. She, usually indifferent enough to the impression she
                        produced on others, was sensible of a keen desire to appear at her best. She
                        did in fact, so she believed, appear at her worst, slow of understanding and
                        of sympathy.—But then all the future hung in the balance. The scale delayed
                        to turn. And the strain of waiting became agitating to the point of
                        distress.
                    At last the course of her so?dutiful survey brought her to a quaint, little
                        chamber, situated immediately over the square, outstanding porch. It was
                        lighted by a single, hooded window placed in the centre of the front wall.
                        It was evidently designed for a linen room, and was in process of being
                        fitted with shelves and cupboards of white pine. The floor was deep in
                        shavings, long, curly, wafer?coloured, semi?transparent. They rustled like
                        fallen leaves when Honoria stepped among them. The air was filled with the
                        odour of them, dry and resinous as that of the fir forest. Ever after that
                        odour affected Honoria with a sense of half?fearful joy and of impending
                        fate. She stood in the middle of the quaint, little chamber. The ceiling was
                        low. She had to bend her head to avoid violent contact between the central
                        beam of it and the crown of her felt hat. But circumscribed though the
                        space, and uncomfortable though her posture, she had an absurd longing to
                        lock the door of the little room, never to come out, to stay here forever!
                        Here she was safe. But outside, on the threshold, stood something she dared
                        not name. It drew her with a pain at once terrible and lovely. She dreaded
                        it. Yet once close to it, once face to face with it, she knew it would have
                        her; that it would not take no for an answer. Her pride, her chastity, was
                        in arms. Was this, she wondered, what men and women speak of so lightly,
                        laugh and joke about? Was this love?—To her it seemed wholly awe?inspiring.
                        And so she clung strangely to the shelter of the quaint, little room with
                        its sea of rustling, resinous shavings. On the other side the door of it
                        waited that momentous decision which would cause the scale to turn. Yet the
                        minutes passed. To prolong her absence became impossible.
                    Just then there was a movement below, a crunching of the gravel, as though of
                        a horse growing restless, impatient of standing. Honoria moved forward,
                        opened the window, pushing back the casement against a cluster of
                        late?blossoming, red roses, the petals of
                        which floated slowly downward describing fluttering circles. Richard Calmady
                        was just below. Honoria called to him.
                    “I am coming, Richard, I am coming!” she said.
                    He turned in the saddle and looked up at her smiling—a smile at once
                        courageous and resigned. Yet, notwithstanding that smile, Honoria once again
                        discovered in his eyes the chill desolation and homelessness of the sky of
                        the winter night. Then the scale turned, turned at last; for that same
                        lovely pain grew lovelier, more desirable than any possibility of ease,
                        until such time as that desolation should pass, that homelessness be cradled
                        to content in some sure harbourage.—Here was the thing given her to do, and
                        she must do it! She would risk all to win all. And, with that decision, her
                        serenity and freedom of soul returned. The white light of a noble
                        self?devotion, reckless of self?spending, reckless of consequence, the joy
                        of a great giving, illuminated her face.
                    As to Richard, he, looking up at her, though ignorant of her purpose,
                        misreading the cause of that inspired aspect, still thought he had never
                        witnessed so graciously gallant a sight. The nymph whom he had first known,
                        who had baffled and crossed him, was here still, strong, untamed, elusive,
                        remote. But a woman was here too, of finest fibre, faithful and loyal,
                        capable of undying tenderness, of an all?encircling and heroic love. Then
                        the desires of the natural man stirred somewhat in Richard, just
                        because—paradox though it undoubtedly was—she provoked less the carnal,
                        perishing passion of the flesh, than the pure and imperishable passion of
                        the spirit. Irrepressible envy of Ludovic Quayle, her lover, seized him,
                        irrepressible demand for just all those things which that other Richard, the
                        would?be saint, had so sternly condemned himself to repudiate, to cast aside
                        and forget. And the would?be saint triumphed—beating down thought of all
                        that, trampling it under foot—so that after briefest interval he called up
                        to her cheerily enough.
                    “Well, what do you make of the dust?cart? Rather fascinating, isn’t it?
                        Notwithstanding its uncleanly name, it’s really rather sweet.”
                    To which she answered, speaking from out the wide background of her own
                        emotion and purpose:—
                    “Yes, yes—it’s sad in a way, Richard, penetratingly, splendidly sad. But one
                        wouldn’t have it otherwise; for it is splendid, and it is sweet, abundantly
                        sweet.”—Then her tone changed.—“I won’t keep you waiting any longer, I’m
                        coming,” she said.
                    
                    Honoria looked round the quaint, little room, with its half?adjusted shelves
                        and cupboards, the floor of it deep in resinous, semi?transparent,
                        wafer?coloured shavings, bidding it adieu. For good or evil, happiness or
                        sorrow, she was sensible it told for much in her life’s experience. Then,
                        something delicately militant in her carriage, she swung away downstairs and
                        out of the house. She was going forth to war indeed, to a war which in no
                        shape or form had she ever waged as yet. Many men had wooed her, and their
                        wooing had left her cold. She had never wooed any man. Why should she? To
                        her no man had ever mattered one little bit.
                    So she mounted, and they rode away.—A spin across the level turf to hearten
                        her up, satisfy the fulness of sensation which held her, and shake her
                        nerves into place. It was exhilarating. She grew keen and tense, her whole
                        economy becoming reliable and well?knit by the strong exercise and sense of
                        the superbly healthy and unperplexed vitality of the horse under her.
                        Honoria could have fought with dragons just then, had such been there to
                        fight with! But, in point of fact, nothing more aggressively dangerous
                        presented itself for encounter than the shallow ford which divides the
                        parish of Farley from that of Sandyfield and the tithing of Brockhurst.
                        Snorting a little, the horses splashed through the clear, brown water and
                        entered upon the rough, rutted road, grass?grown in places, which, ending
                        beneath a broken avenue of ancient, stag?headed oaks, leads to the entrance
                        of the Brockhurst woods. These, crowned by the dark, ragged line of the fir
                        forest, rose in a soft, dense mass against the western sky, in which showed
                        promise of a fair pageant of sunset. A covey of partridges ran up the sandy
                        ruts before the horses, and, rising at last with a long?drawn whir of wings,
                        skimmed the top of the crumbling bank and dropped in the stubble?field on
                        the right. A pause, while the keeper’s wife ran out to open the white
                        gate,—the dogs meanwhile, from their wooden kennels under the Spanish
                        chestnuts upon the hillock behind the lodge, pulling at their chains and
                        keeping up a vociferous chorus. Thus heralded, the riders passed into the
                        mysteriously whispering quiet of the great woods.
                    The heavy, summer foliage remained as yet untouched by the hectic of autumn.
                        Diversity was observable in form rather than in tint, and from this resulted
                        a remarkable effect of unity, a singleness of intention, and of far?reaching
                        secrecy. The multitudinous leaves and the all?pervading green gloom of them
                        around, above, seemed to engulf horses and riders. It was as though they
                        rode across the floor of ocean, the green tides sweeping overhead. Yet the trees of the wood
                        asserted their intelligent presence now and again. Audibly they talked
                        together, bent themselves a little to listen and to look, as though curious
                        of the aspect and purposes of these wandering mortals. And all this, the
                        unity and secrecy of the place, affected both Richard and Honoria strangely,
                        circling them about with something of earth?magic, removing them far from
                        ordinary conditions of social intercourse, and thus rendering it possible,
                        inevitable even, that they should think such thoughts and say such words as
                        part company with subterfuge and concealment, go naked, and speak uttermost
                        truth. For, with only the trees of the wood to listen, with that sibilant
                        whisper of the green tide overhead, with strong emotion compelling them—in
                        the one case towards death of self, in the other towards giving of self—in
                        the one towards austere passivity, in the other towards activity taxing all
                        capital of pride, of delicacy, and of tact—developments became imminent, and
                        those of the most vital sort.
                    The conversation had been broken, desultory; but now, by tacit consent, the
                        pace became quiet again, the horses were permitted to walk. To have gone
                        other than softly through the living heart of the greenwood must have
                        savoured of desecration. Yet Richard was not insensible to a certain danger.
                        He tried, rousing himself to conversation, to rouse himself also to the
                        practical and commonplace.
                    “I am glad you liked my house,” he said. “But I hear the aristocracy of the
                        Row laments. It shies at the idea of being invaded by more or less frightful
                        creatures. But I remain deaf. I really can’t bother about that. It is so
                        immeasurably more unpleasant to be frightful than to see that which is so,
                        that I’m afraid my sympathies remain rather pig?headedly one?sided. I
                        propose to educate the Row in the grace of pity. It may lay up merit by due
                        exercise of that.”
                    Richard took off his hat and rode bare?headed, looking away into the
                        delicious, green gloom. Here, where the wood was thickest, oak and beech
                        shutting out the sky, clasping hands overhead, the ground beneath them deep
                        in moss and fern, that gloom was exactly like the colour of Honoria’s eyes.
                        He wished it wasn’t so. He tried to forget it. But the resemblance haunted
                        him. Look where he might, still he seemed to look into those singular and
                        charming eyes. He talked on determinedly, putting a force upon himself, too
                        often saying that which, no sooner was it out of his mouth, than he wished
                        unsaid.
                    “I don’t want to be too hard on the Row, though. It has a right, after all, to its little prejudices. Only
                        you see for those who, poor souls, are different to other people it becomes
                        of such supreme importance to keep in touch with the average. I have found
                        that out in practice. And so I refuse to shut my waste humanity away. They
                        must neither hide themselves nor be hidden, be spared seeing how much other
                        people enjoy from which they are debarred, nor grow over?conscious of their
                        own ungainliness. That is why I’ve planted them and their gardens, and their
                        pigs and their poultry—we’ll have a lot of live stock, a second generation,
                        even of chickens, offers remarkable consolations—on the highroad, at the
                        entrance of the little town, where, on a small scale at all events, they’ll
                        see the world that’s straight?backed and has its proper complement of limbs
                        and senses, go by. Envy, hatred, and malice, and the seven devils of
                        morbidity are forever lying in wait for them—well—for us—for me and those
                        like me, I mean. In proportion as one’s brought up tenderly—as I was—one
                        doesn’t realise the deprivation and disgust of one’s condition at the start.
                        But once realised, one’s inclination is to kill. At least a man’s is. A
                        woman may accept it more quietly, I suppose.”
                    “Richard,” Honoria said slowly, “are you sure you don’t greatly exaggerate
                        all—all that?”
                    He shook his head.
                    “Thirty years’ experience—no, I don’t exaggerate! Each time one makes a fresh
                        acquaintance, each time a pretty woman is just that bit kinder to one than
                        she would dare be to any man who was not out of it, each time people are
                        manifestly interested—politely, of course—and form a circle, make room for
                        one as they did at that particularly disagreeable Grimshott garden?party
                        yesterday, each time—I don’t want to drivel, but so it is—one sees a pair of
                        lovers—oh! well, it’s not easy to retain one’s philosophy, not to obey the
                        primitive instincts of any animal when it’s ill?used and hurt, and to
                        revenge oneself—to want to kill, in short.”
                    “You—you don’t hate women, then?” Honoria said, still slowly.
                    Richard stared at her for a moment. “Hate them?” he said. “I only wish to
                        goodness I did.”
                    “But in that case,” she began bravely, “why”—
                    “This is why,” he broke in.—“You may remember my engagement to Lady Constance
                        Quayle, and the part you, very properly, took in the cancelling of it? You
                        know better than I do—though my imagination is pretty fertile in dealing
                        with the situation—what instincts and
                        feelings prompted you to take that part.”
                    The young lady turned to him, her arms outstretched, notwithstanding
                        bridle?reins and whip, her face, and those strange eyes which seemed so
                        integral a part of the fair greenwood, full of sorrowful entreaty and
                        distress.
                    “Richard, Richard,” she cried, “will you never forgive me that? She didn’t
                        love you. It was horrible, yet in doing that which I did, I believed—I
                        believe so still—I did what was right by you both.”
                    “Undoubtedly you did right, and that justifies my contention. In doing that
                        which you did you gave voice to the opinion of all wholesome?minded people.
                        That’s exactly where it is. You felt the whole business to be outrageous. So
                        it was. I heartily agree.”—He paused, and the trees talked softly together,
                        bending down a little to listen and to look.—“As you say, she wasn’t in
                        love. Poor child, how could she be? No woman ever will be—at least not in
                        love of the nobler sort, of the sort which if one cannot have it, one had a
                        vast deal better have no love at all.”
                    “But I am not so sure of that,” Honoria said stoutly. “You rush to
                        conclusions. Isn’t it rather a reflection on all the rest of us to take
                        little Lady Constance as the measure of the insight and sensibility of the
                        whole sex? And then she had already lost all her innocent, little heart to
                        Captain Decies. Indeed you’re not fair to us.—Wait”—
                    “Like Ludovic Quayle?”
                    Miss St. Quentin straightened herself in the saddle.
                    “Oh! dear no, not the least like Ludovic Quayle!” she said. Which enigmatic
                        reply produced silence for a while on Dickie’s part. For there were various
                        ways in which it might be interpreted, some flattering, some eminently
                        unflattering, to himself. And from every point of view it was wisest to
                        accept that last form of interpretation. The whole conversation had been
                        perilous in character. It had been too intimate, had touched him too nearly,
                        taking place here in the clear glooms of the greenwood moreover which bore
                        such haunting kinship to those singularly sincere, and yet mysterious, eyes.
                        It is dangerous to ride across the floor of ocean with the whispering tides
                        sweeping overhead, and in such gallant company, besides, that to ride thus
                        forever could hardly come amiss!—Richard, in his turn, straightened himself
                        up in the saddle, opened his chest, taking a long breath, carried his head
                        high, said a stern “get thee behind me, Satan,” to encroaching sentiment and
                        emotion, and to those fair visions which his companion’s presence and her somewhat daring talk had conjured up.
                        He defied the earth?magic, defied those sylvan deities who, as he divined,
                        sought to enthral him. For the moment he confounded Honoria’s influence with
                        theirs. It was something of a battle, and not the first one he had fought
                        to?day. For the great, white road which leads onward to Perfection looked
                        dusty and arid enough—no reposeful shadow, no mystery, no beguiling green
                        glooms over it. Stark, straight, hard, it stretched on endlessly, as it
                        seemed, ahead. To travel it was slow and tedious work, in any case; and to
                        travel it on crutches!—But it was worse than useless to play with such
                        thoughts as these. He would put a stop to this disintegrating talk. He
                        turned to Honoria and spoke lightly, with a return of self?mockery.
                    “Oh! your first instinct was the true one, depend upon it,” he said. “Though
                        I don’t deny it contributed, indirectly, to giving me a pretty rough
                        time.”
                    “Oh! dear me!” Honoria cried, almost piteously. Then she added:—“ But I don’t
                        see, why was that?”
                    “Because, I suppose, I had a sort of unwilling belief in you,” he said,
                        smiling.—Oh! this accursed conversation, why would it insistently drift back
                        into intimacy thus!
                    “Have I justified that belief?” she asked, with a certain pride yet a certain
                        eagerness.
                    “More than justified it,” Dickie answered. “My mother, who has a touchstone
                        for all that is of high worth, knew you from the first. Like the devils, I—I
                        believed and trembled—at least that is how I see it all now. So your action
                        came as a rather searching revelation and condemnation. When I perceived all
                        that it involved—oh, well! first I went to the dogs, and then”—
                    The horses walked side by side. Honoria stretched out her hand impulsively,
                        laid it on his arm.
                    “Richard, Richard, for pity’s sake don’t! You hurt me too much. It’s terrible
                        to have been the cause of such suffering.”
                    “You weren’t the cause,” he said. “Lies were the cause, behind which, like a
                        fool, I’d tried to shelter myself. You’ve been right, Honoria, from first to
                        last. What does it matter after all?—Don’t take it to heart. For it’s over
                        now, all over, thank God, and I have got back into normal relations with
                        things and with people.”—He looked at her very charmingly, and spoke with a
                        fine courtesy of tone.—“One way and another you have taught me a lot, and I
                        am grateful. And, in the future, though the conditions will be altered, I
                        hope you’ll come back here often, Honoria, and just see for yourself that my
                        mother is content; and give my schemes and fads a kindly look in at the same time. And perhaps give me a trifle
                        of sound advice. I shall need it safe enough. You see what I want to get at
                        is temperance—temperance all round, towards everything and everybody—not
                        fanaticism, which, in some respects, is a much easier attitude of mind.”
                    Richard looked up into the whispering, green tide overhead.
                    “Yes, one must deny oneself the luxury of fanaticism, if possible,” he said,
                        “deny oneself the vanity of eccentricity. One must take everything simply,
                        just in the day’s work. One must keep in touch. Keep in touch with your
                        world, the great world, the world which cultivates pleasure and incidentally
                        makes history, as well as with the world of the dust?cart—I know that well
                        enough—if one’s to be quite sane. You see loneliness, a loneliness of which
                        I am thankful to think you can form no conception, is the curse of persons
                        like myself. It inclines one to hide, to sulk, to shut oneself away and
                        become misanthropic. To hug one’s misery becomes one’s chiefest pleasure—to
                        nurse one’s grief and one’s sense of injury. Oh! I’m wary, very wary now, I
                        tell you,” he added, half laughing. “I know all the insidious temptations,
                        the tricks and frauds and pit?falls of this affair. And so I’ll continue to
                        go to Grimshott garden?parties as discipline now and then, while I gather my
                        disabled and decrepit family very closely about me and say words of wisdom
                        to it—wisdom derived from a mature and extensive personal experience.”
                    There was a pause before Miss St. Quentin spoke. Then she said slowly.
                    “And you refuse to let anyone help? You, you refuse to let anyone share the
                        cares of that disabled family?”
                    Again Dickie stared at her, arrested by her speech and doubtful of the
                        intention of it. He could have sworn there were tears in her voice, that it
                        shook. But her face was averted, and he could see no more than the slightly
                        angular outline of her cheek and chin.
                    “Isn’t that a rather superfluous question?” he remarked. “As you pointed out
                        a little while ago, mine is not a superabundantly cheerful programme. No one
                        would volunteer for such service—at least no one likely to be acceptable to
                        my mother, or indeed likely to satisfy my own requirements. I admit, I’m a
                        little fastidious, a little critical and exacting, when it comes to close
                        quarters and—well—permanent association, even yet.”
                    “I am very glad to hear that,” Honoria said. Her face remained averted, but
                        there was a change in her attitude, a decision in the pose of her figure,
                        suggestive both of challenge and of triumph.
                    
                    Richard was nonplussed, but his blood was up. This conversation had gone far
                        enough—indeed too far. Very certainly he would make an end of it.
                    “But God forbid,” he exclaimed, “that I should ever fall to such a depth of
                        selfishness as to invite any person who would satisfy my taste, my demands,
                        to share my life! I mayn’t amount to very much, but at least I have never
                        used my personal ill?luck to trade on a woman’s generosity and pity. What I
                        have had from women, I’ve paid for, in hard cash. In that respect my
                        conscience is clear. It has been a bargain, fair and square and above board,
                        and all my debts are settled in full. You hardly think at this time of day I
                        should use my proposed schemes of philanthropy as a bait?”
                    Richard sent his horse forward at a sharp trot.
                    “No, no, Honoria,” he said, “let it be understood that side of things is over
                        forever.”
                    But here came relief from the green glooms of the greenwood and the dangerous
                        magic of them. For the riders had reached the summit of the hill, and
                        entered upon the levels of the great tableland, at the edge of which
                        Brockhurst House stands. Here was the open, the fresh breeze, the
                        long?drawn, sighing song of the fir forest—a song more austere, more
                        courageous, more virile, than any ever sung by the trees of the wood which
                        drop their leaves for fear of the sharp?toothed winter, and only put them
                        forth again beneath the kisses of soft?lipped spring. Covering all the
                        western sky were lines of softly?rounded, broken cloud, rank behind rank, in
                        endless perspective, the whole shaped like a mighty fan. The under side of
                        them was flushed with living rose. The clear spaces behind them paved with
                        sapphire at the zenith, and palest topaz where they skirted the far
                        horizon.
                    “How very beautiful it is!” Honoria cried, joyously. “Richard, let us see
                        this.”
                    She turned her horse at the green ride which leads to the white Temple, 
                            situated
                            situate
                         on that outstanding spur of hill. She rode on quickly till she
                        reached the platform of turf before the summer?house. Richard followed her
                        with deliberation. He was shaken. His calm was broken up, his whole being in
                        tumult. Why had she pressed just all those matters home on him which he had
                        agreed with himself to cast aside and forget? It was a little cruel, surely,
                        that temptation should assail him thus, and the white road towards
                        Perfection be made so difficult to tread, just when he had re?dedicated
                        himself and renewed his vows? He looked after her. It was here he had met
                        her first—after the time when, as a little maid, she had proved too swift of
                            foot, leaving him so far behind that
                        it sorely hurt his small dignity and caused him to see her depart without
                        regret. She was still swift of foot. She left him behind now. For the moment
                        he was ready to swear that not only without regret but with actual
                        thankfulness, he could again witness her departure.—Yes, he wanted her to
                        go, because he so desperately wanted her to stay —that was the truth. For
                        not only Dickie the natural man, but Dickie “the wild bull in a net,” had a
                        word to say just then. God in heaven what hard work it is to be good!
                    Miss St. Quentin kicked her left foot out of the stirrup, threw her right leg
                        over the pommel, turned, and slipped straight out of the saddle. She stood
                        there a somewhat severely tall, dark figure, strong and positive in effect,
                        against the immense and reposeful landscape—far?ranging, purple distance,
                        golden harvest?fields, silver glint of water in the hollows, all the massive
                        grandeur of the woods, and that superb pageant of sunset sky.
                    The groom rode forward, took her horse, led it away to the far side of the
                        grass platform behind the Temple. Those ranks of rosy cloud in infinite
                        perspective, with spaces of clearest topaz and sapphire light between,
                        converged to the glowing glory of the sun, the rim of which now touched the
                        margin of the world. They were as ranks of worshippers, of blessèd souls
                        redeemed and sainted, united in a common act of adoration, every form
                        clothed by reflection of His glory, every heart, every thought centred upon
                        God.—Richard looked at all that, but it failed to speak to him. Then he saw
                        Honoria resolutely turn her back upon the glory. She came directly towards
                        him. Her face was very thin, her manner very calm. She laid her left hand on
                        the peak of his saddle. She looked him full in the eyes.
                    “Richard,” she said, “be patient a minute and listen. It comes to this, that
                        a woman—your equal in position, of your own age, and not without money—does
                        volunteer to share your work. It’s no forlorn hope. She is not disappointed.
                        On the contrary she has, and can have, pretty well all the world’s got to
                        give. Only—perhaps very foolishly, for she doesn’t know much about the
                        matter, having been rather cold?blooded so far—she has fallen in love.”
                    There was a silence, save that the wind came out of the west, out of the
                        majesty of the sunset; and with it came the calling of the sea—not only of
                        the blue water, or of those green tides that sweep above wandering mortals
                        in the magic greenwood, but of the sea of faith, of the sea of love—love
                        human, love divine, love universal—which circles not only this, but all
                        possible states of being, all possible worlds.
                    
                    Presently Richard spoke hoarsely, under his breath.
                    “With whom?” he said.
                    “With you”—
                    Dickie went white to the lips. He sat absolutely still for a little space,
                        his hands resting on his thighs.
                    “Tell her to think,” he said, at last.—“She proposes to do that which the
                        world will condemn, and rightly from its point of view. It will misread her
                        motives. It won’t spare disagreeable comment. Tell her to think.—Tell—tell
                        her to look.—Cripple, dwarf, the last, as he ought to be, of an unlucky
                        race—a man who’s carried up and down stairs like a baby, who’s strapped to
                        the saddle, strapped to the driving?seat—who is cut off from most forms of
                        activity and of sport—a man who will never have any sort of career; who has
                        given himself, in expiation of past sins, to the service of human beings a
                        degree more unfortunate than himself.—No, no, stop—hear me out.—She must
                        know it all!—A man who has lived far from cleanly, who has evil memories and
                        evil knowledge of life—no—listen. A man whom you—yes, you yourself,
                        Honoria—have condemned bitterly; from whom, notwithstanding your splendid
                        nerve and pluck, so hateful is his deformity, you have shrunk a hundred
                        times.”
                    “She has thought of all that,” Honoria answered calmly. “But she has thought
                        of this too—that, going up and down the world to find the most excellent
                        thing in it, she has found this thing, love. And so to her, Richard, your
                        crippling has come to be dearer than any other man’s wholeness. Your wrong
                        doings—may God forgive her—dearer than any other man’s virtue. Your virtues
                        so wholly beautiful that—that”—
                    The tears came into her eyes, her lips quivered, she backed away a little
                        from rider and horse.
                    “Richard,” she cried fiercely, “if you don’t care for me, if you don’t want
                        me, be honourable, tell me so straight out and let us have done with it! I
                        am strong enough, I am man enough, for that. For Heaven’s sake don’t take me
                        out of pity. I would never forgive you. There’s a good deal of us both, one
                        way and another, and we should give each other a hell of a time if I was in
                        love and you were not. But”—she put her hand on the peak of that very ugly
                        saddle again—“but, if you do care, here I am. I have never failed anyone
                        yet. I will never fail you. I am yours body and soul. Marry me,” she
                        said.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XI
                    IN WHICH RICHARD CALMADY BIDS THE LONG?SUFFERING READER
                        FAREWELL
                    THE midsummer dusk had fallen, drawing its soft, dim mantle over the
                        face of the land. The white light walked the northern sky from west to east.
                        A nightingale sang in the big, Portugal laurel at the corner of the
                        troco?ground; and was answered by another singer from the coppice, across
                        the valley, bordering the trout stream that feeds the Long Water. A fox
                        barked sharply out in the Warren. Beetles droned, flying conspicuously
                        upright, straight on end, through the warm air. The churring of the
                        night?hawks, as they flitted hither and thither over the beds of bracken and
                        dog?roses, like gigantic moths, on quick, silent wings, formed a continuous
                        accompaniment, as of a spinning?wheel, to the other sounds. And Dick
                        Ormiston laughed consumedly, doubling himself together now and again and
                        holding his slim sides in effort to moderate his explosive merriment. He was
                        in uproarious spirits.—Back from school to?day, and that nearly a month
                        earlier than could by the most favourable process of calculation have been
                        anticipated, thanks to development of measles on the part of some
                        much?to?be?commended schoolfellows. How he blessed those praiseworthy young
                        sufferers! And how he laughed, watching the two heavy?headed, lolloping,
                        half?grown, bull?dog puppies describe crazy circles upon the smooth turf in
                        the deepening dusk. Seen thus in the half?light they appeared more than ever
                        gnome?like, humorously ugly and awkward. They trod on their own ears,
                        tumbled over one another, sprawled on the grass, panting and grinning, until
                        their ecstatic owner incited them to further gyrations. To Dick this was a
                        night of unbridled licence. Had he not dined late? Had he not leave to sit
                        up till half?past ten o’clock? Was he not going out, bright and early,
                        tomorrow morning to see the horses galloped? Could life hold greater
                        complement of good for a brave, little, ten?year?old soul, and serviceable,
                        little, ten?year?old body emulous of all manly virtues and manly
                        pastimes?
                    So the boy laughed; and the sound of his laughter reached the ears both of
                        the elder and the younger Lady Calmady, as they slowly paced the straight
                        walk between the grey balustrade and the edge of the turf. On their left the
                        great outstretch of valley and wood lay
                        drowned in the suave uncertainties of the summer night. Before them was the
                        whole terrace?front of the house, its stacks of twisted chimneys clear cut
                        against the sky. Bright light shone out from the windows of the red
                        drawing?room, and from those of the hall, bringing flowers, sections of grey
                        pavement, and like details into sharp relief. There were passing lights in
                        the range of windows above, suggesting cheerful movement within the great
                        house. At the southern end of the terrace, just below the arcade of the
                        garden?hall—which showed pale against the shadow within and brickwork
                        above—two men were sitting. Their voices reached the ladies now and then in
                        quiet yet animated talk. A spirit of peace, of security, of firmly?planted
                        hope, seemed to pervade all the scene, all the place. Waking or sleeping,
                        fear was banished. All was strong to work to?morrow, therefore to?night all
                        could calmly yield itself to rest.
                    And it was a sense of just this, and a tender anxiety lest the fulness of the
                        gracious content of it should be in any degree marred to her dear companion,
                        which made Honoria Calmady say presently:—
                    “You don’t mind little Dick’s racketting with those ridiculous puppies, do
                        you, Cousin Katherine? If it bothers you I’ll stop him like a shot.”
                    But Katherine shook her head.
                    “My dearest child, why stop him?” she said. “The foolishnesses of young
                        creatures at play is delicious; and laughter, so long as it is not cruel, I
                        reckon among the good gifts of God.”—She paused a moment. “Dear Marie de
                        Mirancourt tried to teach me that long ago, but I was culpably dull of
                        hearing in these days where spiritual truth was concerned, and I failed to
                        grasp her meaning. I believe we never really love, either man or Almighty
                        God, until we can both laugh ourselves and let others laugh. Of all false
                        doctrines that of the sour?faced, joyless puritan is the falsest. His mere
                        outward aspect is a sin against the Holy Ghost.”
                    And Honoria smiled, patting the hand which lay on her arm very tenderly.
                    “How I love your heavenly rage!” she said. They moved on a few steps in
                        silence. Then, careless of all the rapture its notification of the passing
                        of time might cut short, the clock at the house stables chimed the
                        half?hour. Honoria paused in her gentle walk.
                    “Bed?time, Dick,” she cried.
                    “All right,” the boy returned. He pursued, and laid hold of, the errant puppies, stowing them, not without
                        kickings and strugglings on their part, one under either arm. They were
                        large and heavy, just as much as he could carry; and he staggered across the
                        grass with them, presenting the effect of a small, black donkey between a
                        pair of very big, white panniers.
                    “I say, they are awfully stunning though, you know, Honoria,” he said rather
                        breathlessly as he came up to her.
                    “Very soul?satisfying, aren’t they, Dick?” she replied. “Richard foresaw as
                        much. That is why he got them for you.”
                    “If I put them down do you suppose they’ll follow? Carrying them does make my
                        arms ache.”
                    “Oh, they’ll follow fast enough,” Honoria said.
                    He lowered the puppies circumspectly on to the gravel.
                    “They’ll be whoppers when they’re grown,” he remarked.
                    “What shall you call them?”
                    “Adam and Eve I think, because they’re the first of my lot. They’re pedigree
                        dogs—and later I may want to show, don’t you see.”
                    “Yes, I see,” Honoria said.
                    He came close to her, putting his face up half shyly to be kissed. Then as
                        young Lady Calmady, somewhat ghostly in her trailing, white, evening dress,
                        bent her charming head, the boy, suddenly overcome with the manifold
                        excitements of the day, flung his arms round her.
                    “Oh! oh!” he gasped, “how awfully ripping it is to be back here again with
                        you and Cousin Richard and Aunt Katherine! I wish number?four dormitory
                        would get measles the middle of every term!—Only I forgot—perhaps I ought
                        not to touch you, Honoria, after messing about with the dogs. Do you
                        mind?”
                    “Not a bit,” she said.
                    “But, Honoria,”—he rubbed his cool cheek against her bare neck—“I say, don’t
                        you think you might come and see me, just for a little weeny while, after
                        I’m in bed to?night?”
                    And young Lady Calmady, thus coaxed, held the slight figure close. She had a
                        very special place in her heart for this small Dick, who in face, and as she
                        hoped in nature also, bore such comfortable resemblance to that elder and
                        altogether well?beloved Dick, who was the delight of her life.
                    “Yes, dear, old chap, I’ll come,” she said. “Only it must really be for a
                        little weeny while, because you must go to sleep. By the way, who’s going to
                        valet you these holidays? Clara or Faulstich?”
                    
                    “Oh, neither,” the boy answered. “I think I’m rather old for women now, don’t
                        you know, Honoria.”—At which statement she laughed, his cheek being again
                        tucked tight into the turn of her neck. “I shall have Andrews in future. I
                        asked Cousin Richard about it. He’s a very civil?mannered fellow, and he
                        knows about yachts and things, and he says he likes being up before five
                        o’clock.”
                    “Does he? Excellently veracious young man!” Honoria remarked.
                    But thereupon, exuberance of joy demanding active expression, the boy broke
                        away with a whoop and set off running. The puppies lolloped away at his
                        heels. And young Lady Calmady—whom such giddy fancies still took at times,
                        notwithstanding nearly three years of marriage—flew after the trio, the
                        train of her dress floating out behind her to most admired extravagance of
                        length as she skimmed along the path. Fair lady, boy, and dogs disappeared,
                        with sounds of merriment, into the near garden?hall; reappeared upon the
                        terrace, bearing down, but at sobering pace, upon the occupants of the
                        chairs set at the end of it. One man rose to his feet, a tall, narrow, black
                        figure. The other remained seated. The light shining forth from the great
                        bay?window of the hall touched the little group, conferring a certain
                        grandeur upon the graceful, white?clad Honoria. Her satin dress shimmered as
                        she moved. There was, as of old, a triumph of high purity, of freedom of
                        soul, in her aspect. Her voice came, with a fine gladness yet soft richness
                        of tone, across that intervening triangular space of sloping turf upon which
                        terrace and troco?ground alike looked down. The nightingale, who had fallen
                        silent during the skirmish, took up his passionate singing again, and was
                        answered delicately, a song not of the flesh but of the spirit, by the bird
                        from across the valley.
                    Katherine Calmady stood solitary, watching, listening, her hands folded
                        rather high on her bosom. The caressing suavity of the summer night enfolded
                        her. And remembrance came to her of another night, nearly four?and?thirty
                        years ago, when, standing in this same spot, she, young, untried, ambitious
                        of unlimited joys, had felt the first mysterious pangs of motherhood, and
                        told her husband of that new, unseen life which was at once his and her own.
                        And of yet another night, when, after long experience of sorrow, solitude,
                        and revolt, her husband had come to her once again; but come, even as the
                        bird’s song came from across the valley, etherealised, spiritualised, the
                        same yet endowed with qualities of unearthly beauty—and how that strange and exquisite communion with the dead had
                        fortified her to endure an anguish even greater than any she had yet known.
                        She had prayed that night that she might behold the face of her
                        well?beloved, and her prayer had been granted. She had prayed that, without
                        reservation, she might be absorbed by and conformed to, the Divine Will. And
                        that prayer had, as she humbly trusted, been in great measure granted also.
                        But then the Divine Will had proved so very merciful, the Divine Intention
                        so wholly beneficent, there was small credit in being conformed to either!
                        Katherine bowed her head in thanksgiving. The goodness of the Almighty
                        towards her had been abundant beyond asking or fondest hope.
                    She was aroused from her gracious meditation by the sound of
                        footsteps—measured, a little weary perhaps—approaching her. She looked up to
                        see Julius March. And a point of gentle anxiety pricked Katherine. For it
                        occurred to her that Julius had failed somewhat in health and in energy of
                        late. She reproached herself lest, in the interest of watching those
                        vigorous, young lives so dear to her, participating in their schemes,
                        basking in the sunshine of their love, she had neglected Julius and failed
                        to care for his comfort as she might. To those that have shall be given—even
                        of sympathy, even of strength. In that there is an ironical as well as an
                        equitable truth and she was to blame perhaps in the ironical application of
                        it. It followed, therefore, that she greeted him now with a quickening both
                        of solicitude and of affection.
                    “Come and pace, dear Julius, come and pace,” she said, “as in times past. Yet
                        not wholly as in the past, for then often I must have distressed and
                        troubled you, since my pacings were too often the outcome of restlessness
                        and of unruly passion, while now”—
                    Katherine broke off, gazing at the little company gathered upon the
                        terrace.
                    “Surely they are very happy?” she said, almost involuntarily.
                    And he, smiling at his dear lady’s incapacity of escape from her fixed idea,
                        replied:—
                    “Yes, very surely.”
                    Katherine tied the white, lace coif she wore a little tighter beneath her
                        chin.
                    “In their happiness I renew that of my own youth,” she said gently, “as it is
                        granted to few women, I imagine, to renew it. But I renew it with a
                        reverence for them; since my own happiness was plain sailing enough,
                        obvious, incontestable, whilst theirs is nobler, and rises to a higher
                        plane. For its roots, after all, are
                        planted in very mournful fact, to which it has risen superior, and over
                        which it has triumphed.”
                    But he answered, jealous of his dear lady’s self?depreciation:—
                    “I can hardly admit that. To begin in unclouded promise of happiness, to
                        decline to searching and unusual experience of sorrow, and then, by
                        self?discipline and obedience, to attain your present altitude of
                        tranquillity and assurance of faith, is surely a greater trial, a greater
                        triumph, than to begin—as they—with difficulties, with much, I admit, to
                        overcome and resist, but to succeed as they are succeeding and be granted
                        the high land of happiness which they even now possess? They are young,
                        fortune smiles on them. Above all, they have one another”—
                    “Ah yes!” she said, “they have one another. Long may that last. It is a very
                        perfect marriage of true minds, as well as true hearts. I had, and they
                        have, all that love can give,”—Lady Calmady turned at the end of the walk.
                        “But it troubles me, as a sort of emptiness and waste, dear Julius, that you
                        have never had that. It pains me that you, who possess so noble a power of
                        disinterested and untiring friendship, should never have enjoyed that other,
                        and nearer, relation which transcends friendship even as to?morrow’s dawn
                        will transcend in loveliness the chastened restfulness of this evening’s
                        dusk.”
                    Katherine moved onward with a certain sweet dignity of manner.
                    “Tell me—is she still alive, Julius, this lady whom you so loved?”
                    “Yes, thank God,” he said.
                    “And you have never tried to elude that vow which—as you once told me—you
                        made long ago before you knew her?”
                    “Never,” he replied. “Without it I could not have served her as I have been
                        able to serve her. I am wholly thankful for it. It made much possible which
                        must have otherwise been impossible.”
                    “And have you never told her that you loved her—even yet?”
                    “No,” he replied, “because, had I told her, I must have ceased to serve her.
                        I must have left her, Katherine, and I did not think God required that of
                        me.”
                    Lady Calmady walked on in silence, her head a little bent. At the end of the
                        path she stood a moment, listening to the answering songs of the two
                        nightingales.
                    “Ah!” she said softly, “how greatly I have under?rated the beauty of the
                        dusk! To submit to dwell in the borderland, to stand on the dim bridge thus
                        between day and night, demands perhaps the
                        very finest courage conceivable. You have shown me, Julius, how exquisite
                        and holy a thing it is.—And, as to her whom you have so faithfully loved, I
                        think, could she know, she would thank you very deeply for never telling her
                        the truth. She would entreat you to keep your secret to the end. But to
                        remain near her, to let her seek counsel of you when in perplexity or
                        distress; to talk with her both of those you and she love, and have loved,
                        and of the promise of fair things beyond and above our present seeing—pacing
                        with her at times—even as you and I, dear friend, pace together here
                        to?night amid the restrained and solemn beauty of the dusk. Would she not do
                        this?”
                    “It is enough that you have done it for her, Katherine,” he answered. “With
                        your ruling I am wholly, unendingly content.”
                    “Perhaps Richard and Honoria’s dear works of mercy and the noonday tide of
                        energy which flows through the house, have caused us to see less of each
                        other than of old,” Lady Calmady continued with a charming lightness. “That
                        is a mistake needing correction. The young to the young, dear Julius. You
                        and I, who go at a quieter pace, will enjoy our peaceful friendship to the
                        full. I shall not tire of your company, I promise you, if you do not of
                        mine. Long may you be spared to me. God keep you, most loyal friend.
                        Good?night.”
                    Then Lady Calmady, deeply touched, yet unmoved from her altitude of
                        thankfulness and calm, musing of many matters and of the working out of them
                        to a beneficent and noble end, slowly went the length of the terrace to
                        where, at the foot of the steps of the garden?hall, Richard still sat. As
                        she came near he held out his hand to her.
                    “Dear, sweet mother,” he said, “how I like to see you walk in that stately
                        fashion, the whole of you—body, mind, and spirit, somehow evident—gathered
                        up within the delicious compass of yourself! As far back as I can remember
                        anything, I remember that. When I watched you it always made me feel safe.
                        It seemed more like music heard, somehow, than something seen.”
                    “Dickie, Dickie,” she exclaimed, flushing a little, “don’t make me vain in my
                        old age!”
                    “But it’s true,” he said. “And why shouldn’t one tell the pretty truths as
                        well as the plain ones?—Isn’t it a positively divine night? Look at the moon
                        just clearing the top of the firs there! It is good to be alive. Mother—may
                        I say it? am very grateful to you for having brought me into the world.”
                    
                    “Ah! but, my poor darling”—Katherine cried.
                    “No, no,” he said, “put that out of your dear head once and for all. I am
                        grateful, being as I am; grateful for everything, it being as it is. I don’t
                        believe I would have anything—not anything—save those four years when I left
                        you—altered, even if I could. I’ve found my work, and it enlarges its
                        borders in all manner of directions; and it prospers. And I have money to
                        put it through. And I have that boy. He’s a dear, little chap—and it is
                        wonderfully good of Uncle Roger and Mary to give him to me. But he’s getting
                        a trifle too fond of horses. I can’t break poor, old Chifney’s heart; but
                        when his days are numbered, those of the stables—as far as training racers
                        goes—are numbered likewise, I think. I’ll keep on the stud farm. But I grow
                        doubtful about the rest. I wish it wasn’t so, but so it is. Sport is
                        changing hands, passing from those of romance into those of commerce.—Well,
                        the stables served their turn. They helped to bring me through. But now
                        perhaps they’re a little out of the picture.”
                    Richard drew her hand nearer and kissed it, leaning back in his chair, and
                        looking up at her.
                    “And I have you”—he said, “you, most perfect of mothers.—And—ah! here comes
                        Honoria!”
                
            
            PRINTED BY MORRISON AND GIBB LIMITED, EDINBURGH
        
    
