
     ----CITATION----
        Ellis, Sarah Stickney (1812-1872). The Women of England. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 467 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University ( 05-February-1999).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7198
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    THE WOMEN OF ENGLAND, 
                    THEIR SOCIAL DUTIES, AND DOMESTIC HABITS.
                
                BY MRS. ELLIS, AUTHOR OF “THE POETRY OF LIFE,”
                    “PICTURES OF PRIVATE LIFE,” ETC. ETC.
                ELEVENTH EDITION.
                
                    FISHER, SON, & CO.
                    NEWGATE ST., LONDON: QUAI DE L'ECOLE, PARIS.
                
            
            
                
                PREFACE.
                AT a time when the pressure of stirring events, and the urgency of
                    public and private interests, render it increasingly desirable that every
                    variety of labour should be attended with an immediate and adequate return; I
                    feel that some apology is necessary for the presumption of inviting the
                    attention of the public to a work, in which I have been compelled to enter into
                    the apparently insignificant detail of familiar and ordinary life.
                The often-repeated truth—that “trifles make the sum of human things,” must plead
                    my excuse; as well as the fact, that while our libraries are stored with books
                    of excellent advice on general conduct, we have no single work containing the
                    particular minutiæ of practical duty, to which I have felt myself called upon to
                    invite the consideration of the young women of the present day. We have many valuable dissertations upon female
                    character, as exhibited on the broad scale of virtue; but no direct definition
                    of those minor parts of domestic and social intercourse, which strengthen into
                    habit, and consequently form the basis of moral character.
                It is worthy of remark also, that these writers have addressed their observations
                    almost exclusively to ladies, or occasionally to those who hold a
                    subordinate situation under the influence of ladies; while that estimable class
                    of females who might be more specifically denominated women, and
                    who yet enjoy the privilege of liberal education, with exemption from the
                    pecuniary necessities of labour, are almost wholly overlooked.
                It is from a high estimate of the importance of this class in upholding the moral
                    worth of our country, that I have addressed my remarks especially to them; and
                    in order to do so with more effect, I have ventured to penetrate into the
                    familiar scenes of domestic life, and have thus endeavoured to lay bare some of
                    the causes which frequently lie hidden at the
                    root of general conduct.
                Had I not known before the commencement of this work, its progress would soon
                    have convinced me, that in order to perform my task with candour and
                    faithfulness, I must renounce all idea of what is called fine writing; because
                    the very nature of the duty I have undertaken, restricts me to the consideration
                    of subjects, too minute in themselves to admit of their being expatiated upon
                    with eloquence by the writer—too familiar to produce upon the reader any
                    startling effect. Had I even felt within myself a capability for treating any
                    subject in this manner, I should have been willing in this instance to resign
                    all opportunity of such display, if, by so doing, I could more clearly point out
                    to my countrywomen, by what means they may best meet that pressing exigency of
                    the times, which so urgently demands a fresh exercise of moral power on their
                    part, to win back to the homes of England, the boasted felicity for which they
                    once were famed.
                
                Anxious as I am to avoid the charge of unnecessary trifling on a subject so
                    serious as the moral worth of the women of England, there is beyond this a
                    consideration of far higher importance, to which I would invite the candid
                    attention of the serious part of the public, while I offer, what appears to me a
                    sufficient apology, for having written a book on the subject of morals, without
                    having made it strictly religious. I should be sorry indeed, if, by so doing, I
                    brought upon myself the suspicion of yielding for one moment to the belief that
                    there is any other sure foundation for good morals, than correct religious
                    principle; but I do believe, that, with the Divine blessing, a foundation may be
                    laid in very early life, before the heart has been illuminated by Divine truth,
                    or has experienced its renovating power, for those domestic habits, and relative
                    duties, which in after life will materially assist the developement of the
                    christian character. And I am the more convinced of this, because we sometimes
                    see, in sincere and devoted Christians, such peculiarities of conduct as materially hinder their usefulness—such
                    early-formed habits, as they themselves would be glad to escape from, but which
                    continue to cling around them in their earthly course, like the clustering of
                    weeds in the traveller's path.
                It may perhaps more fully illustrate my view of this important subject, to say
                    that those who would train up young people without the cultivation of moral
                    habits, trusting solely to the future influence of religion upon
                    their hearts, are like mariners, who, while they wait for their bark to be
                    safely guided out to sea, allow their sails to swing idly in the wind, their
                    cordage to become entangled, and the general outfit of their vessel to suffer
                    injury and decay; so that when the pilot comes on board, they lose much of the
                    advantage of his services, and fail to derive the anticipated benefit from his
                    presence.
                All that I would venture to recommend with regard to morals, is, that the order
                    and right government of the vessel should, as far as is possible, be maintained,
                    so that when the hope of better and surer
                    guidance is realized, and the heavenly Pilot in his own good time arrives, all
                    things may be ready—nothing out of order, and nothing wanting, for a safe and
                    prosperous voyage.
                It is therefore solely to the cultivation of habits that I have
                    confined my attention—to the minor morals of domestic life. And I
                    have done this, because there are so many abler pens than mine employed in
                    teaching and enforcing the essential truths of religion; because there is an
                    evident tendency in society, as it exists in the present day, to overlook these
                    minor points; and because it is impossible for them to be neglected, without
                    serious injury to the Christian character.
                
                    SARAH STICKNEY ELLIS.
                    PENTONVILLE, FEB. 1839.
                
            
            
                
                CONTENTS.
                
                    CHAPTER I. Characteristics of the Women of England 9
                    CHAPTER II. Influence of the Women of England 38
                    CHAPTER III. Modern Education 61
                    CHAPTER IV. Dress and Manners 92
                    CHAPTER V. Conversation of the Women of England 118
                    CHAPTER VI. Conversation 145
                    CHAPTER VII. Domestic Habits—Consideration and Kindness 174
                    CHAPTER VIII. Domestic Habits—Consideration and Kindness 204
                    CHAPTER IX. Domestic Habits—Consideration and Kindness 238
                    CHAPTER X. Domestic Habits—Consideration and Kindness 262
                    CHAPTER XI. Social Intercourse—Caprice—Affectation—Love of Admiration 286
                    CHAPTER XII. Public Opinion—Pecuniary Resources—Integrity 309
                    CHAPTER XIII. Habits and Character—Intellectual Attainments—Employment of
                        Time—Moral Courage—Right Balance of Mind 333
                
            
        
        
            
            THE WOMEN OF ENGLAND.
            
                CHAPTER I.
                CHARACTERISTICS OF THE WOMEN OF ENGLAND.
                EVERY country has its peculiar characteristics, not only of climate and
                    scenery, of public institutions, government, and laws; but every country has
                    also its moral characteristics, upon which is founded its true
                    title to a station, either high or low, in the scale of nations.
                The national characteristics of England are the perpetual boast of her patriotic
                    sons; and there is one especially, which it behoves all British subjects not
                    only to exult in, but to cherish and maintain. Leaving the justice of her laws,
                    the extent of her commerce, and the amount of her resources, to the orator, the
                    statesman, and the political economist, there yet remains one of the noblest
                    features in her national character, which may not improperly be regarded as
                    within the compass of a woman's understandings
                    and the province of a woman's pen. It is the domestic character of England—the
                    home comforts, and fireside virtues for which she is so justly celebrated. These
                    I hope to be able to speak of without presumption, as intimately associated
                    with, and dependent upon, the moral feelings and habits of the women of this
                    favoured country.
                It is therefore in reference to these alone that I shall endeavour to treat the
                    subject of England's nationality; and in order to do this with more precision,
                    it is necessary to draw the line of observation within a narrower circle, and to
                    describe what are the characteristics of the women of England. I ought, perhaps,
                    in strict propriety, to say what were their characteristics;
                    because I would justify the obtrusiveness of a work like this, by first
                    premising that the women of England are deteriorating in their moral character,
                    and that false notions of refinement are rendering them less influential, less
                    useful, and less happy than they were.
                In speaking of what English women were, I would not be understood to refer to
                    what they were a century ago. Facilities in the way of mental improvement have
                    greatly increased during this period. In connexion with moral discipline,
                        these facilities are invaluable; but I
                    consider the two excellencies as having been combined in the greatest perfection
                    in the general average of women who have now attained to middle, or rather
                    advanced age. When the cultivation of the mental faculties had so far advanced
                    as to take precedence of the moral, by leaving no time for domestic usefulness,
                    and the practice of personal exertion in the way of promoting general happiness,
                    the character of the women of England assumed a different aspect, which is now
                    beginning to tell upon society in the sickly sensibilities, the feeble frames,
                    and the useless habits of the rising generation.
                In stating this humiliating fact, I must be blind indeed to the most cheering
                    aspect of modern society, not to perceive that there are signal instances of
                    women who carry about with them into every sphere of domestic duty, even the
                    most humble and obscure, the accomplishments and refinements of modern
                    education; and who deem it rather an honour than a degradation to be permitted
                    to add to the sum of human happiness, by diffusing the embellishments of mind
                    and manners over the homely and familiar aspect of every-day existence.
                Such, however, do not constitute the majority of the female population of Great
                    Britain. By far the greater portion of the
                    young ladies (for they are no longer women) of the present day, are
                    distinguished by a morbid listlessness of mind and body, except when under the
                    influence of stimulus, a constant pining for excitement, and an eagerness to
                    escape from every thing like practical and individual duty. Of course, I speak
                    of those whose minds are not under the influence of religious principle. Would
                    that the exception could extend to all who profess to be governed
                    by this principle!
                Gentle, inoffensive, delicate, and passively amiable as many young ladies are, it
                    seems an ungracious task to attempt to rouse them from their summer dream; and
                    were it not that wintry days will come, and the surface of life be ruffled, and
                    the mariner, even she who steers the smallest bark, be put upon the inquiry for
                    what port she is really bound—were it not that the cry of utter helplessness is
                    of no avail in rescuing from the waters of afliction, and the plea of ignorance
                    unheard upon the far-extending and deep ocean of experience, and the question of
                    accountability perpetually sounding, like the voice of a warning spirit, above
                    the storms and the billows of this lower world—I would be one of the very last
                    to call the dreamer back to a consciousness of present things. But this state of
                    listless indifference, my sisters, must not be.
                    You have deep responsibilities, you have urgent claims; a nation's moral wealth
                    is in your keeping. Let us inquire then in what way it may be best preserved.
                    Let us consider what you are, and have been, and by what peculiarities of
                    feeling and habit you have been able to throw so much additional weight into the
                    scale of your country's worth.
                In order to speak with precision of the characteristics of any class of people,
                    it is necessary to confine our attention as much as possible to that portion of
                    the class where such characteristics are most prominent; and, avoiding the two
                    extremes where circumstances not peculiar to that class are supposed to operate,
                    to take the middle or intervening portion as a specimen of the whole.
                Napoleon Buonaparte was accustomed to speak of the English nation as a “nation of
                    shopkeepers;” and when we consider the number, the influence, and the
                    respectability of that portion of the inhabitants who are, directly or
                    indirectly, connected with our trade and merchandise, it does indeed appear to
                    constitute the mass of English society, and may justly be
                    considered as exhibiting the most striking and unequivocal proofs of what are
                    the peculiar characteristics of the people of England. It is not therefore from
                    the aristocracy of the land that the
                    characteristics of English women should be taken; because the higher the rank,
                    and the greater the facilities of communication with other countries, the more
                    prevalent are foreign manners, and modes of thinking and acting common to that
                    class of society in other countries. Neither is it entirely amongst the indigent
                    and most laborious of the community, that we can with propriety look for those
                    strong features of nationality which stamp the moral character of different
                    nations; because the urgency of mere physical wants, and the pressure of
                    constant and necessary labour, naturally induce a certain degree of resemblance
                    in social feelings and domestic habits, amongst people similarly circumstanced,
                    to whatever country they may belong.
                In looking around, then, upon our “nation of shopkeepers,” we readily perceive
                    that by dividing society into three classes, as regards what is commonly called
                    rank, the middle class must include so vast a portion of the intelligence and
                    moral power of the country at large, that it may not improperly be designated
                    the pillar of our nation's strength, its base being the important class of the
                    laborious poor, and its rich and highly ornamental capital, the ancient nobility
                    of the land. In no other country is society thus beautifully proportioned, and England should beware of any deviation
                    from the order and symmetry of her national column.
                There never was a more short-sighted view of society, than that by which the
                    women of our country have lately learned to look with envious eyes upon their
                    superiors in rank, to rival their attainments, to imitate their manners, and to
                    pine for the luxuries they enjoy; and consequently to look down with contempt
                    upon the appliances and means of humbler happiness. The women of England were
                    once better satisfied with that instrumentality of Divine wisdom by which they
                    were placed in their proper sphere. They were satisfied to do with their own
                    hands what they now leave undone, or repine that they cannot have others to do
                    for them.
                A system of philosophy was once promulgated in France, by which it was attempted
                    to be proved that so much of the power and the cleverness of man was
                    attributable to his hand, that, but for a slight difference in the formation of
                    this organ in some of the inferior animals, they would have been entitled to
                    rank in the same class with him. Whatever may be said of the capabilities of
                    man's hand, I believe the feminine qualification of being able to use the hand
                    willingly and well, has a great deal to do with the moral influence of woman. The personal services she is thus enabled to
                    render, enhance her value in the domestic circle, and when such services are
                    performed with the energy of a sound understanding, and the grace of an
                    accomplished mind—above all, with the disinterested kindness of a generous
                    heart—they not only dignify the performer, but confer happiness, as well as
                    obligation. Indeed, so great is the charm of personal attentions arising
                    spontaneously from the heart, that women of the highest rank in society, and far
                    removed from the necessity of individual exertion, are frequently observed to
                    adopt habits of personal kindness towards others, not only as the surest means
                    of giving pleasure, but as a natural and grateful relief to the overflowing of
                    their own affections.
                There is a principle in woman's love, that renders it impossible for her to be
                    satisfied without actually doing something for the object of her
                    regard. I speak only of woman in her refined and elevated character. Vanity can
                    satiate itself with admiration, and selfishness can feed upon services received;
                    but woman's love is an ever-flowing and inexhaustible fountain, that must be
                    perpetually imparting from the source of its own blessedness. It needs but
                    slight experience to know, that the mere act of loving our fellow-
                        crea-
                        creatures
                     tures does little towards the
                    promotion of their happiness. The human heart is not so credulous as to continue
                    to believe in affection without practical proof. Thus the interchange of mutual
                    kind offices begets a confidence which cannot be made to grow out of any other
                    foundation; and while gratitude is added to the connecting link, the character
                    on each side is strengthened by the personal energy required for the performance
                    of every duty.
                There may exist great sympathy, kindness, and benevolence of feeling, without the
                    power of bringing any of these emotions into exercise for the benefit of others.
                    They exist as emotions only. And thus the means, which appear to us as the most
                    gracious and benignant of any that could have been adopted by our heavenly
                    Father, for rousing us into necessary exertion, are permitted to die away,
                    fruitless and unproductive, in the breast where they ought to have operated as a
                    blessing and a means of happiness to others.
                It is not uncommon to find negatively amiable individuals, who sink under a
                    weight of indolence, and suffer from innate selfishness a gradual contraction of
                    mind, perpetually lamenting their own inability to do good. It would be
                    ungenerous to doubt their sincerity in these regrets. We can therefore only conclude, that the want of habits of
                    personal usefulness has rendered them mentally imbecile, and physically inert;
                    whereas, had the same individuals been early accustomed to bodily exertion,
                    promptly and cheerfully performed on the spur of the moment, without waiting to
                    question whether it was agreeable or not, the very act of exertion would have
                    become a pleasure, and the benevolent purposes to which such exertions might be
                    applied, a source of the highest enjoyment.
                Time was when the women of England were accustomed, almost from their childhood,
                    to the constant employment of their hands. It might be sometimes in elaborate
                    works of fancy, now ridiculed for their want of taste, and still more frequently
                    in household avocations, now fallen into disuse from their incompatibility with
                    modern refinement. I cannot speak with unqualified praise of all the
                        objects on which they bestowed their attention, but, if it were
                    possible, I would write in characters of gold the indisputable fact, that the
                        habits of industry and personal exertion thus acquired, gave
                    them a strength and dignity of character, a power of usefulness, and a
                    capability of doing good, which the higher theories of modern education fail to
                    impart. They were in some instances less qualified for travelling on the 
                        con-
                        continent
                     tinent without an interpreter; but
                    the women of whom I am speaking seldom went abroad. Their sphere of action was
                    at their own firesides, and the world in which they moved was one where pleasure
                    of the highest, purest order, naturally and necessarily arises out of acts of
                    duty faithfully performed.
                Perhaps it may be necessary to be more specific in describing the class of women
                    to which this work relates. It is, then, strictly speaking, to those who belong
                    to that great mass of the population of England which is connected with trade
                    and manufactures, as well as to the wives and daughters of professional men of
                    limited incomes; or, in order to make the application more direct, to that
                    portion of it who are restricted to the services of from one to four
                    domestics,—who, on the one hand, enjoy the advantages of a liberal education,
                    and, on the other, have no pretension to family rank. It is, however, impossible
                    but that many deviations from these lines of demarcation must occur, in
                    consequence of the great change in their pecuniary circumstances, which many
                    families during a short period experience, and the indefinite order of rank and
                    station in which the elegances of life are enjoyed, or its privations endured.
                    There is also this peculiarity to be taken into
                    account, in our view of English society, that the acquisition of wealth, with
                    the advantages it procures, is all that is necessary for advancement to
                    aristocratic dignity; while, on the other hand, so completely is the nation
                    dependent upon her commercial resources, that it is no uncommon thing to see
                    individuals who lately ranked amongst the aristocracy, suddenly driven, by the
                    failure of some bank or some mercantile speculation, into the lowest walks of
                    life, and compelled to mingle with the laborious poor.
                These facts are strong evidence in favour of a system of conduct that would
                    enable all women to sink gracefully, and without murmuring against providence,
                    into a lower grade of society. It is easy to learn to enjoy, but it is not easy
                    to learn to suffer.
                Any woman of respectable education, possessing a well-regulated mind, might move
                    with ease and dignity into a higher sphere than that to which she had been
                    accustomed; but few women whose hands have been idle all their lives, can feel
                    themselves compelled to do the necessary labour of a household, without a
                    feeling of indescribable hardship, too frequently productive of a secret
                    murmuring against the instrumentality by which she was reduced to such a
                    lot.
                
                It is from the class of females above described, that we naturally look for the
                    highest tone of moral feeling, because they are at the same time removed from
                    the pressing necessities of absolute poverty, and admitted to the intellectual
                    privileges of the great; and thus, while they enjoy every facility in the way of
                    acquiring knowledge, it is their still higher privilege not to be exempt from
                    the domestic duties which call forth the best energies of the female
                    character.
                Where domestics abound, and there is a hired hand for every kindly
                    office, it would be a work of supererogation for the mistress of the house to
                    step forward, and assist with her own; but where domestics are few, and the
                    individuals who compose the household are thrown upon the consideration of the
                    mothers, wives, and daughters for their daily comfort, innumerable channels are
                    opened for the overflow of those floods of human kindness, which it is one of
                    the happiest and most ennobling duties of woman to administer to the weary
                    frame, and to pour into the wounded mind.
                It is perhaps the nearest approach we can make towards any thing like a
                    definition of what is most striking in the characteristics of the women of
                    England, to say, that the nature of their
                    domestic circumstances is such as to invest their characters with the threefold
                    recommendation of promptitude in action, energy of thought, and
                        benevolence of feeling. With all the responsibilities of family
                    comfort and social enjoyment resting upon them, and unaided by those troops of
                    menials who throng the halls of the affluent and the great, they are kept alive
                    to the necessity of making their own personal exertions conducive to the great
                    end of promoting the happiness of those around them. They cannot sink into
                    supineness, or suffer any of their daily duties to be neglected, but some
                    beloved member of the household is made to feel the consequences, by enduring
                    inconveniences which it is alike their pride and their pleasure to remove. The
                    frequently recurring avocations of domestic life admit of no delay. When the
                    performance of any kindly office has to be asked for, solicited, and
                    re-solicited, it loses more than half its charm. It is therefore strictly in
                    keeping with the fine tone of an elevated character, to be beforehand with
                    expectation, and thus to show, by the most delicate yet most effectual of all
                    human means, that the object of attention, even when unheard and unseen, has
                    been the subject of kind and affectionate solicitude.
                By experience in these apparently minute 
                        af-
                        affairs
                     fairs, a woman of kindly feeling and
                    properly disciplined mind, soon learns to regulate her actions also according to
                    the principles of true wisdom, and hence arises that energy of thought for which
                    the women of England are so peculiarly distinguished. Every passing event,
                    however insignificant to the eye of the world, has its crisis, every occurrence
                    its emergency, every cause its effect; and upon these she has to calculate with
                    precision, or the machinery of household comfort is arrested in its movements,
                    and thrown into disorder.
                Woman, however, would but ill supply the place appointed her by providence, were
                    she endowed with no other faculties than those of promptitude in action, and
                    energy of thought. Valuable as these may be, they would render her but a cold
                    and cheerless companion, without the kindly affections and tender offices that
                    sweeten human life. It is a high privilege, then, which the women of England
                    enjoy, to be necessarily, and by the force of circumstances, thrown upon their
                    affections, for the rule of their conduct in daily life. “What shall I do to
                    gratify myself—to be admired—or to vary the tenor of my existence?” are not the
                    questions which a woman of right feeling asks on first awaking to the avocations
                        of the day. Much more congenial to the
                    highest attributes of woman's character, are inquiries such as these: “How shall
                    I endeavour through this day to turn the time, the health, and the means
                    permitted me to enjoy, to the best account? Is any one sick, I must visit their
                    chamber without delay, and try to give their apartment an air of comfort, by
                    arranging such things as the wearied nurse may not have thought of. Is any one
                    about to set off on a journey, I must see that the early meal is spread, or
                    prepare it with my own hands, in order that the servant, who was working late
                    last night, may profit by unbroken rest. Did I fail in what was kind or
                    considerate to any of the family yesterday; I will meet them this morning with a
                    cordial welcome, and show, in the most delicate way I can, that I am anxious to
                    atone for the past. Was any one exhausted by the last day's exertion, I will be
                    an hour before them this morning, and let them see that their labour is so much
                    in advance. Or, if nothing extraordinary occurs to claim my attention, I will
                    meet the family with a consciousness that, being the least engaged of any member
                    of it, I am consequently the most at liberty to devote myself to the general
                    good of the whole, by cultivating cheerful conversation, adapting myself to the
                        prevailing tone of feeling, and leading
                    those who are least happy, to think and speak of what will make them more
                    so.”
                Who can believe that days, months, and years spent in a continual course of
                    thought and action similar to this, will not produce a powerful effect upon the
                    character; and not upon the individual who thinks, and acts, alone, but upon all
                    to whom her influence extends? In short, the customs of English society have so
                    constituted women the guardians of the comfort of their homes, that, like the
                    Vestals of old, they cannot allow the lamp they cherish to be extinguished, or
                    to fail for want of oil, without an equal share of degradation attaching to
                    their names.
                In other countries, where the domestic lamp is voluntarily put out, in order to
                    allow the women to resort to the opera, or the public festival, they are not
                    only careless about their home comforts, but necessarily ignorant of the high
                    degree of excellence to which they might be raised. In England there is a kind
                    of science of good household management, which, if it consisted merely in
                    keeping the house respectable in its physical character, might be left to the
                    effectual working out of hired hands; but, happily for the women of England,
                    there is a philosophy in this science, by which all their highest and best
                    feelings are called into exercise. Not only
                    must the house be neat and clean, but it must be so ordered as to suit the
                    tastes of all, as far as may be, without annoyance or offence to any. Not only
                    must a constant system of activity be established, but peace must be preserved,
                    or happiness will be destroyed. Not only must elegance be called in, to adorn
                    and beautify the whole, but strict integrity must be maintained by the minutest
                    calculation as to lawful means, and self, and self-gratification, must be made
                    the yielding point in every disputed case. Not only must an appearance of
                    outward order and comfort be kept up, but around every domestic scene there must
                    be a strong wall of confidence, which no internal suspicion can undermine, no
                    external enemy break through.
                Good household management, conducted on this plan, is indeed a science well
                    worthy of attention. It comprises so much, as to invest it with an air of
                    difficulty on the first view; but no woman can reasonably complain of
                    incapability, because nature has endowed the sex with perceptions so lively and
                    acute, that where benevolence is the impulse, and principle the foundation upon
                    which they act, experience will soon teach them by what means they may best
                    accomplish the end they have in view.
                They will soon learn by experience, that 
                        selfish-
                        selfishness
                     ness produces selfishness, that
                    indolence increases with every hour of indulgence, that what is left undone
                    because it is difficult to-day, will be doubly difficult to-morrow; that
                    kindness and compassion, to answer any desirable end, must one be practical, the
                    other delicate, in its nature; that affection must be kept alive by ministering
                    to its necessities; and, above all, that religion must be recommended by
                    consistency of character and conduct.
                It is the strong evidence of truths like these, wrought out of their daily
                    experience, and forced upon them as principles of action, which renders the
                    women of England what they are, or rather were, and which fits them for becoming
                    able instruments in the promotion of public and private good; for all must
                    allow, that it is to the indefatigable exertions and faithful labours of women
                    of this class, that England chiefly owes the support of some of her noblest and
                    most benevolent institutions; while it is to their unobtrusive and untiring
                    efforts, that the unfortunate and afflicted often are indebted for the only
                    sympathy—the only kind attention that ever reaches their obscure abodes, or
                    diffuses cheerfulness and comfort through the solitary chambers of suffering and
                    sickness—the only aid that relieves the victims of penury and want—the only
                    consolation that ever visits the desolate and
                    degraded in their wretchedness and despair.
                I acknowledge there are noble instances in the annals of English history, and
                    perhaps never more than at the present day, of women of the highest rank
                    devoting their time and their property to objects of benevolence; but from the
                    very nature of their early habits and domestic circumstances, they are upon the
                    whole less fitted for practical usefulness, than those who move within a lower
                    sphere. I am also fully sensible of the charities which abound amongst the poor;
                    and often have I been led to compare the actual merit of the magnificent
                    bestowments of those who know not one comfort the less, with that of the poor
                    man's offering and the widow's mite. Still my opinion remains the same, that in
                    the situation of the middle class of women in England, are combined advantages
                    in the formation of character, to which they owe much of their distinction, and
                    their country much of her moral worth.
                The true English woman, accustomed to bear about with her, her energies for daily
                    use, her affections for daily happiness, and her delicate perceptions for hourly
                    aids in the discovery of what is best to do or to leave undone, by this means
                    obtains an insight into human nature, a power of adaptation, and a readiness of application of the right means to the desired
                    end, which not only render her the most valuable friend, but the most delightful
                    of fireside companions, because she is thus enabled to point the plainest moral,
                    and adorn the simplest tale, with all those freshly-formed ideas which arise out
                    of actual experience, and the contemplation of unvarnished truth.
                Amongst their other characteristics, the women of England are frequently spoken
                    of as plebeian in their manners, and cold in their affections; but their
                    unpolished and occasionally embarrassed manner, as frequently conceals a
                    delicacy that imparts the most refined and elevated sentiment to their familiar
                    acts of duty and regard; and those who know them best are compelled to
                    acknowledge, that all the noblest passions, the deepest feelings, and the
                    highest aspirations of humanity, may be found within the brooding quiet of an
                    English woman's heart.
                There are flowers that burst upon us, and startle the eye with the splendour of
                    their beauty; we gaze until we are dazzled, and then turn away, remembering
                    nothing but their gorgeous hues. There are others that refresh the traveller by
                    the sweetness they diffuse—but he has to search for the source of his delight.
                    He finds it embedded amongst green leaves; it
                    may be less lovely than he had anticipated, in its form and colour, but, oh! how
                    welcome is the memory of that flower, when the evening breeze is again made
                    fragrant with its perfume.
                It is thus that the unpretending virtues of the female character force themselves
                    upon our regard, so that the woman herself is nothing in comparison
                    with her attributes; and we remember less the celebrated belle, than her who
                    made us happy.
                Nor is it by their frequent and faithful services alone, that English women are
                    distinguished. The greater proportion of them were diligent and
                    thoughtful readers. It was not with them a point of importance to devour every
                    book that was written as soon as it came out. They were satisfied to single out
                    the best, and, making themselves familiar with every page, conversed with the
                    writer as with a friend, and felt that, with minds superior, but yet congenial
                    to their own, they could make friends indeed. In this manner their solitude was
                    cheered, their hours of labour sweetened, and their conversation rendered at
                    once piquant and instructive. This was preserved from the technicalities of
                    common-place by the peculiar nature of their social and mental habits. They were
                    accustomed to think for themselves; and,
                    deprived in some measure of access to what might be esteemed the highest
                    authorities in matters of sentiment and taste, they drew their conclusions from
                    reasoning, and their reasoning from actual observation. It is true, their sphere
                    of observation was microscopic, compared with that of the individual who enjoys
                    the means of travelling from court to court, and of mixing with the polished
                    society of every nation; but an acute vision directed to immediate objects,
                    whatever they may be, will often discover as much of the wonders of creation,
                    and supply the intelligent mind with food for reflection as valuable, as that
                    which is the result of a widely extended view, where the objects, though more
                    numerous, are consequently less distinct.
                Thus the domestic woman, moving in a comparatively limited circle, is not
                    necessarily confined to a limited number of ideas, but can often expatiate upon
                    subjects of mere local interest with a vigour of intellect, a freshness of
                    feeling, and a liveliness of fancy, which create in the mind of the uninitiated
                    stranger, a perfect longing to be admitted into the home associations from
                    whence are derived such a world of amusement, and so unfailing a relief from the
                    severer duties of life.
                
                It is not from the acquisition of ideas, but from the application of them, that
                    conversation derives its greatest charm. Thus an exceedingly well-informed
                    talker may be indescribably tedious; while one who is comparatively ignorant, as
                    regards mere facts, having brought to bear, upon every subject contemplated, a
                    lively imagination combined with a sound judgment, and a memory stored, not only
                    with dates and historical events, but with strong and clear impressions of
                    familiar things, may rivet the attention of his hearers, and startle them, for
                    the time, into a distinctness of impression which imparts a degree of delightful
                    complacency both to those who listen, and to the entertainer himself.
                In the exercise of this kind of tact, the women of England, when they can be
                    induced to cast off their shyness and reserve, are peculiarly excellent, and
                    there is consequently an originality in their humour, a firmness in their
                    reasoning, and a tone of delicacy in their perceptions, scarcely to be found
                    elsewhere in the same degree, and combined in the same manner; nor should it
                    ever be forgotten, in speaking of their peculiar merits, that the freshness and
                    the charm of their conversation is reserved for their own firesides, for moments
                    when the wearied framed is most in need of 
                        exhi-
                        exhilaration
                     laration, when the mind is thrown
                    upon its own resources for the restoration of its exhausted powers, and when
                    home associations and home affections are the balm which the wounded spirit
                    needs.
                But above all other characteristics of the women of England, the strong moral
                    feeling pervading even their most trifling and familiar actions, ought to be
                    mentioned as most conducive to the maintenance of that high place which they so
                    justly claim in the society of their native land. The apparent coldness and
                    reserve of English women ought only to be regarded as a means adopted for the
                    preservation of their purity of mind,—an evil, if you choose to call it so, but
                    an evil of so mild a nature, in comparison with that which it wards off, that it
                    may with truth be said to “lean to virtue's side.”
                I have said before, that the sphere of a domestic woman's observation is
                    microscopic. She is therefore sensible of defects within that sphere, which, to
                    a more extended vision, would be imperceptible. If she looked abroad for her
                    happiness, she would be less disturbed by any falling off at home. If her
                    interest and her energies were diffused through a wider range, she would be less
                    alive to the minuter claims upon her attention. It is possible she may sometimes attach too much importance to the
                    minutiæ of her own domestic world, especially when her mind is imperfectly
                    cultivated and informed: but, on the other hand, there arises, from the same
                    cause, a scrupulous exactness, a studious observance, of the means of happiness,
                    a delicacy of perception, a purity of mind, and a dignified correctness of
                    manner, for which the women of England are unrivalled by those of any other
                    nation.
                By a certain class of individuals, their general conduct may possibly be regarded
                    as too prudish to be strictly in keeping with enlarged and liberal views of
                    human life. These are such as object to find the strict principles of female
                    action carried out towards themselves. But let every man who disputes the right
                    foundation of this system of conduct, imagine in the place of the woman whose
                    retiring shyness provokes his contempt, his sister or his friend; and, while he
                    substitutes another being, similarly constituted, for himself, he will
                    immediately perceive that the boundary-line of safety, beyond which no true
                    friend of woman ever tempted her to pass, is drawn many degrees within that
                    which he had marked out for his own intercourse with the female sex. Nor is it
                    in the small and separate deviations from this strict line of 
                        pro-
                        propriety
                     priety, that any great degree of
                    culpability exists. Each individual act may be simple in itself, and almost too
                    insignificant for remark; it is habit that stamps the character, and custom that
                    renders common. Who then can guard too scrupulously against the first opening,
                    the almost imperceptible chance of manners, by which the whole aspect of
                    domestic life would be altered? And who would not rather that English women
                    should be guarded by a wall of scruples, than allowed to degenerate into less
                    worthy, and less efficient supporters of their country's moral worth?
                Were it only in their intercourse with mixed society that English women were
                    distinguished by this strict regard to the proprieties of life, it might with
                    some justice fall under the ban of prudery; but happily for them, it extends to
                    every sphere of action in which they move, discountenancing vice in every form,
                    and investing social duty with that true moral dignity which it ought ever to
                    possess.
                I am not ignorant that this can only be consistently carried out under the
                    influence of personal religion. I must, therefore, be understood to speak with
                    limitations, and as comparing my own countrywomen with those of other nations—as
                    acknowledging melancholy exceptions, and not only fervently desiring that every one professed a religion capable of leading
                    them in a more excellent way, but that all who do profess that religion were
                    studiously careful in these minor points. Still I do believe that the women of
                    England are not surpassed by those of any other country for their clear
                    perception of the right and the wrong of common and familiar things, for their
                    reference to principle in the ordinary affairs of life, and for their united
                    maintenance of that social order, sound integrity, and domestic peace, which
                    constitute the foundation of all that is most valuable in the society of our
                    native land.
                Much as I have said of the influence of the domestic habits of my countrywomen,
                    it is, after all, to the prevalence of religious instruction, and the operation
                    of religious principle upon the heart, that the consistent maintenance of their
                    high tone of moral character is to be attributed. Amongst families in the middle
                    class of society in this country, those who live without regard to religion are
                    exceptions to the general rule; while the great proportion of individuals thus
                    circumstanced are not only accustomed to give their time and attention to
                    religious observances, but, there is every reason to believe, are materially
                    affected in their lives and conduct by the operation of christian principles upon their own minds. Women are said to be
                    more easily brought under this influence than men; and we consequently see, in
                    places of public worship, and on all occasions in which a religious object is
                    the motive for exertion, a greater proportion of women than of men. The same
                    proportion may possibly be observed in places of amusement, and where objects
                    less desirable claim the attention of the public; but this ought not to render
                    us insensible to the high privileges of our favoured country, where there is so
                    much to interest, to please, and to instruct, in what is connected with the
                    highest and holiest uses to which we can devote the talents committed to our
                    trust.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER II.
                INFLUENCE OF THE WOMEN OF ENGLAND.
                IT might form a subject of interesting inquiry, how far the manifold
                    advantages possessed by England as a country, derive their origin remotely from
                    the cause already described; but the immediate object of the present work is to
                    show how intimate is the connexion which exists between the women
                    of England, and the moral character maintained by their country in
                    the scale of nations. For a woman to undertake such a task, may at first sight
                    appear like an act of presumption; yet when it is considered that the
                    appropriate business of men is to direct, and expatiate upon, those expansive
                    and important measures for which their capabilities are more peculiarly adapted,
                    and that to women belongs the minute and particular observance of all those
                    trifles which fill up the sum of human 
                        happi-
                        happiness
                     ness or misery, it may surely be
                    deemed pardonable for a woman to solicit the serious attention of her own sex,
                    while she endeavours to prove that it is the minor morals of domestic life which
                    give the tone to English character, and that over this sphere of duty it is her
                    peculiar province to preside.
                Aware that the word preside, used as it is here, may produce a
                    startling effect upon the ear of man, I must endeavour to bespeak his
                    forbearance, by assuring him, that the highest aim of the writer does not extend
                    beyond the act of warning the women of England back to their domestic duties, in
                    order that they may become better wives, more useful daughters, and mothers, who
                    by their example shall bequeath a rich inheritance to those who follow in their
                    steps.
                On the other hand, I am equally aware that a work such as I am proposing to
                    myself must be liable to the condemnation of all modern young ladies, as a
                    homely, uninteresting book, and wholly unsuited to the present enlightened
                    times. I must therefore endeavour also to conciliate their good will, by
                    assuring them, that all which is most lovely, poetical, and interesting, nay,
                    even heroic in women, derives its existence from the source I am
                    now about to open to their view, with all the
                    ability I am able to command;—and would it were a hundredfold, for their
                    sakes!
                The kind of encouragement I would hold out to them is, however, of a nature so
                    widely different from the compliments to which they are too much accustomed,
                    that I feel the difficulty existing in the present day, of stimulating a
                    laudable ambition in the female mind, without the aid of public praise, or
                    printed records of the actual product of their meritorious exertions. The sphere
                    of woman's happiest and most beneficial influence is a domestic one, but it is
                    not easy to award even to her quiet and unobtrusive virtues that meed of
                    approbation which they really deserve, without exciting a desire to forsake the
                    homely household duties of the family circle, to practise such as are more
                    conspicuous, and consequently more productive of an immediate harvest of
                    applause.
                I say this with all kindness, and I desire to say it with all gentleness, to the
                    young, the amiable, and the—vain; at the same time that my
                    perception of the temptation to which they are exposed, enhances my value for
                    the principle that is able to withstand it, and increases my admiration of those
                    noble-minded women who are able to carry forward, with exemplary
                    patience and perseverance, the public offices of benevolence, without sacrificing their home duties, and who thus prove to
                    the world, that the perfection of female character is a combination of private
                    and public virtue,—of domestic charity, and zeal for the temporal and eternal
                    happiness of the whole human race.
                No one can be farther than the writer of these pages from wishing to point out as
                    objects of laudable emulation those domestic drudges, who, because of some
                    affinity between culinary operations, and the natural tone and character of
                    their own minds, prefer the kitchen to the drawing-room,—of their own free
                    choice, employ their whole lives in the constant bustle of providing for mere
                    animal appetite, and waste their ingenuity in the creation of new wants and
                    wishes, which all their faculties again are taxed to supply. This class of
                    individuals have, by a sad mistake in our nomenclature, been called
                        useful, and hence, in some degree, may arise the unpopular
                    reception which this valuable word is apt to meet with in female society.
                It does not require much consideration to perceive that these are not the women
                    to give a high moral tone to the national character of England; yet so entirely
                    do human actions derive their digity or their meanness from the
                        motives by which they are
                    prompted, that it is no violation of truth to say, the most servile drudgery may
                    be ennobled by the self-sacrifice, the patience, the cheerful submission to
                    duty, with which it is performed. Thus a high-minded and intellectual woman is
                    never more truly great than when willingly and judiciously performing kind
                    offices for the sick; and much as may be said, and said justly, in praise of the
                    public virtues of women, the voice of nature is so powerful in every human
                    heart, that could the question of superiority on these two points be universally
                    proposed, a response would be heard throughout the world, in favour of woman in
                    her private and domestic character.
                Nor would the higher and more expansive powers of usefulness with which women are
                    endowed, suffer from want of exercise, did they devote themselves assiduously to
                    their domestic duties. I am rather inclined to think they would receive
                    additional vigour from the healthy tone of their own minds, and the leisure and
                    liberty afforded by the systematic regularity of their household affairs. Time
                    would never hang heavily on their hands, but each moment being husbanded with
                    care, and every agent acting under their influence being properly chosen and
                    instructed, they would find ample opportunity to go forth on errands of
                        mercy, secure that in their absence, the
                    machinery they had set in motion would still continue to work, and to work
                    well.
                But if, on the other hand, all was confusion and neglect at home—filial appeals
                    unanswered—domestic comforts uncalculated—husbands, sons, and brothers, referred
                    to servants for all the little offices of social kindness, in order that the
                    ladies of the family might hurry away at the appointed time to some
                    committee-room, scientific lecture, or public assembly; however laudable the
                    object for which they met, there would be sufficient cause why their cheeks
                    should be mantled with the blush of burning shame when they heard the women of
                    England and their virtues spoken of in that high tone of approbation and
                    applause, which those who aspire only to be about their Master's business will
                    feel little pleasure in listening to, and which those whose charity has not
                    begun at home, ought never to appropriate to themselves.
                It is a widely mistaken notion to suppose that the sphere of usefulness
                    recommended here, is a humiliating and degraded one. As if the earth that
                    fosters and nourishes in its lovely bosom the roots of all the plants and trees
                    which ornament the garden of the world, feeding them from her secret storehouse
                    with supplies that never fail, were less
                    important, in the economy of vegetation, than the sun that brings to light their
                    verdure and their flowers, or the genial atmosphere that perfects their growth,
                    and diffuses their perfume abroad upon the earth. To carry out the simile still
                    farther, it is but just to give the preference to that element which, in the
                    absence of all other favouring circumstances, withholds not its support; but
                    when the sun is shrouded, and the showers forget to fall, and blighting winds go
                    forth, and the hand of culture is withdrawn, still opens out its hidden
                    fountains, and yields up its resources, to invigorate, to cherish, and
                    sustain.
                It would be an easy and a grateful task, thus, by metaphor and illustration, to
                    prove the various excellencies and amiable peculiarities of woman, did not the
                    utility of the present work demand a more minute and homely detail of that which
                    constitutes her practical and individual duty. It is too much the custom with
                    writers, to speak in these general terms of the loveliness of the
                    female character; as if woman were some fragrant flower, created only to bloom,
                    and exhale in sweets: when perhaps these very writers are themselves most strict
                    in requiring that the domestic drudgery of their own households should each day
                    be faithfully filled up. How much more generous, just, and noble it would be to deal fairly by woman in
                    these matters, and to tell her that to be individully, what she is
                    praised for being in general, it is necessary for her to lay aside
                    all her natural caprice, her love of self-indulgence, her vanity, her
                    indolence—in short, her very self—and assuming a new nature, which
                    nothing less than watchfulness and prayer can enable her constantly to maintain,
                    to spend her mental and moral capabilities in devising means for promoting the
                    happiness of others, while her own derives a remote and secondary existence from
                    theirs.
                If an admiration almost unbounded for the perfection of female character, with a
                    sisterly participation in all the errors and weaknesses to which she is liable,
                    and a profound sympathy with all that she is necessarily compelled to feel and
                    suffer, are qualifications for the task I have undertaken, these certainly are
                    points on which I yield to none; but at the same time that I do my feeble best,
                    I must deeply regret that so few are the voices lifted up in her defence against
                    the dangerous influence of popular applause, and the still more dangerous
                    tendency of modern habits, and modern education. Perhaps it is not to be
                    expected that those who write most powerfully, should most clearly perceive the
                    influence of the one, or the tendency of the
                    other; because the very strength and consistency of their own minds must in some
                    measure exempt them from participation in either. While, therefore, in the art
                    of reasoning, a writer like myself must be painfully sensible of her own
                    deficiency; in sympathy of feeling, she is perhaps the better qualified to
                    address the weakest of her sex.
                With such, it is a favourite plea, brought forward in extenuation of their own
                    uselessness, that they have no influence—that they are not leading women—that
                    society takes no note of them;—forgetting, while they shelter themselves beneath
                    these indolent excuses, that the very feather on the stream may serve to warn
                    the doubtful mariner of the rapid and fatal current by which his bark might be
                    hurried to destruction. It is, moreover, from amongst this class that wives are
                    more frequently chosen; for there is a peculiarity in men—I would fain call it
                        benevolence—which inclines them to offer the benefit of their
                    protection to the most helpless and dependent of the female sex; and therefore
                    it is upon this class that the duty of training up the young most frequently
                    devolves; not certainly upon the naturally imbecile, but upon the uncalculating
                    creatures whose non-exercise of their own mental and moral 
                        facul-
                        faculties
                     ties renders them not only willing to
                    be led through the experience of life, but thankful to be relieved from the
                    responsibility of thinking and acting for themselves.
                It is an important consideration, that from such women as these, myriads of
                    immortal beings derive that early bias of character, which under Providence
                    decides their fate, not only in this world, but in the world to come. And yet
                    they flutter on, and say they have no influence—they do not aspire to be leading
                    women—they are in society but as grains of sand on the sea-shore. Would they but
                    pause one moment to ask how will this plea avail them, when, as daughters
                    without gratitude, friends without good faith, wives without consideration, and
                    mothers without piety, they stand before the bar of judgment, to render an
                    account of the talents committed to their trust! Have they not parents, to whom
                    they might study to repay the debt of care and kindness accumulated in their
                    clildhood?—perhaps to whom they might overpay this debt, by assisting to remove
                    such obstacles as apparently intercept the line of duty, and by endeavouring to
                    alleviate the perplexing cares which too often obscure the path of life? Have
                    they not their young friendships, for those sunny hours when the heart expands
                        itself in the genial atmosphere of mutual
                    love, and shrinks not from revealing its very weaknesses and errors; so that a
                    faithful hand has but to touch its tender chords, and conscience is awakened,
                    and then instruction may be poured in, and medicine may be administered, and the
                    messenger of peace, with healing on his wings, may be invited to come in, and
                    make that heart his home? Have they not known the secrets of some faithful bosom
                    laid bare before them in a deeper and yet more confiding attachment, when,
                    however insignificant they might be to the world in general, they held an
                    influence almost unbounded over one human being, and could pour in, for the bane
                    or the blessing of that bosom, according to the fountain from whence their own
                    was supplied, either draughts of bitterness, or floods of light? Have they not
                    bound themselves by a sacred and enduring bond, to be to one fellow-traveller
                    along the path of life, a companion on his journey, and, as far as ability might
                    be granted them, a guide and a help in the doubts and the difficulties of his
                    way? Under these urgent and serious responsibilities, have they not been
                    appealed to, both in words and in looks, and in the silent language of the
                    heart, for that promised help? And how has the appeal been answered? Above all,
                    have they not, many of them, had the feeble
                    steps of infancy committed to their care—the pure unsullied page of childhood
                    presented to them for its first and most durable inscription?—and what have they
                    written there? It is vain to plead their inability, and say they knew not what
                    to write, and therefore left the tablet untouched, or sent away the vacant page
                    to be filled up by other hands. Time will prove to them they have
                    written, if not by any direct instrumentality, by their example, their
                    conversation, and the natural influence of mind on mind. Experience will prove
                    to them they have written; and the transcript of what they have
                    written will be treasured up, either for or against them, amongst the awful
                    records of eternity.
                It is therefore not only false in reasoning, but wrong in principle, for women to
                    assert, as they not unfrequently do with a degree of puerile satisfaction, that
                    they have no influence. An influence fraught either with good or evil, they must
                    have; and though the one may be above their ambition, and the other beyond their
                    fears, by neglecting to obtain an influence which shall be beneficial to
                    society, they necessarily assume a bad one: just in the same proportion as their
                    selfishness, indolence, or vacuity of mind, render them in youth an easy prey to
                    every species of unamiable 
                        tem-
                        temper
                     per, in middle age the melancholy
                    victims of mental disease, and, long before the curtain of death conceals their
                    follies from the world, a burden and a bane to society at large.
                A superficial observer might rank with this class many of those exemplary women,
                    who pass to and fro upon the earth with noisless step, whose names are never
                    heard, and who, even in society, if they attempt to speak, have scarcely the
                    ability to command an attentive audience. Yet amongst this unpretending class
                    are found striking and noble instances of women, who, apparently feeble and
                    insignificant, when called into action by pressing and peculiar circumstances,
                    can accomplish great and glorious purposes, supported and carried forward by
                    that most valuable of all faculties—moral power. And just in
                    proportion as women cultivate this faculty (under the blessing of heaven)
                    independently of all personal attractions, and unaccompanied by any high
                    attainments in learning or art, is their influence over their fellow-creatures,
                    and consequently their power of doing good.
                It is not to be persumed that women 
                        
                            possesss
                            possess
                        
                     more moral power than men; but happily for them, such are their early
                    impressions, associations, and general position in the world, that their moral
                    feelings are less liable to be impaired by the 
                        pecu-
                        pecuniary
                     niary objects which too often
                    constitute the chief end of man, and which, even under the limitations of better
                    principle, necessarily engage a large portion of his thoughts. There are many
                    humble-minded women, not remarkable for any particular intellectual endowments,
                    who yet possess so clear a sense of the right and wrong of individual actions,
                    as to be of essential service in aiding the judgments of their husbands,
                    brothers, or sons, in those intricate affairs in which it is sometimes difficult
                    to dissever worldly wisdom from religious duty.
                To men belongs the potent—(I had almost said the omnipotent)
                    consideration of worldly aggrandisement; and it is constantly misleading their
                    steps, closing their ears against the voice of conscience, and beguiling them
                    with the promise of peace, where peace was never found. Long before the boy has
                    learned to exult in the dignity of the man, his mind has become familiarized to
                    the habit of investing with supreme importance, all considerations relating to
                    the acquisition of wealth. He hears on the Sabbath, and on stated occasions,
                    when men meet for that especial purpose, of a God to be worshipped, a Saviour to
                    be trusted in, and a holy law to be observed; but he sees before him, every day
                    and every hour, a strife, which is nothing less than deadly to the highest
                        impulses of the soul, after another god—the
                    mammon of unrighteousness—the moloch of this world; and believing rather what
                    men do, than what they preach, he learns too soon to mingle with the living
                    mass, and to unite his labours with theirs. To unite? Alas! there is no union in
                    the great field of action in which he is engaged; but envy, and hatred, and
                    opposition, to the close of the day—every man's hand against his brother, and
                    each struggling to exalt himself, not merely by trampling upon his fallen foe,
                    but by usurping the place of his weaker brother, who faints by his side, from
                    not having brought an equal portion of strength into the conflict, and who is
                    consequently borne down by numbers, hurried over, and forgotten.
                This may be an extreme, but it is scarcely an exaggerated picture of the
                    engagements of men of business in the present day. And surely they now need more
                    than ever all the assistance which Providence has kindly provided, to win them
                    away from this warfare, to remind them that they are hastening on towards a
                    world into which none of the treasures they are amassing can be admitted; and,
                    next to those holier influences which operate through the medium of revelation,
                    or through the mysterious instrumentality of Divine love, I have little hesitation in saying, that the society of
                    woman in her highest moral capacity, is best calculated to effect this
                    purpose.
                How often has man returned to his home with a mind confused by the many voices,
                    which in the mart, the exchange, or the public assembly, have addressed
                    themselves to his inborn selfishness, or his worldly pride; and while his
                    integrity was shaken, and his resolution gave way beneath the pressure of
                    apparent necessity, or the insidious pretences of expediency, he has stood
                    corrected before the clear eye of woman, as it looked directly to the naked
                    truth, and detected the lurking evil of the specious act he was about to commit.
                    Nay, so potent may have become this secret influence, that he may have borne it
                    about with him like a kind of second conscience, for mental reference, and
                    spiritual counsel, in moments of trial; and when the snares of the world were
                    around him, and temptations from within and without have bribed over the witness
                    in his own bosom, he has thought of the humble monitress who sat alone, guarding
                    the fireside comforts of his distant home; and the remembrance of her character,
                    clothed in moral beauty, has scattered the clouds before his mental vision, and
                    sent him back to that beloved home, a wiser and a better man.
                
                The women of England, possessing the grand privilege of being better instructed
                    than those of any other country, in the minutiæ of domestic comfort, have
                    obtained a degree of importance in society far beyond what their unobtrusive
                    virtues would appear to claim. The long-established customs of their country
                    have placed in their hands the high and holy duty of cherishing and protecting
                    the minor morals of life, from whence springs all that is elevated in purpose,
                    and glorious in action. The sphere of their direct personal influence is
                    central, and consequently small; but its extreme operations are as widely
                    extended as the range of human feeling. They may be less striking in society
                    than some of the women of other countries, and may feel themselves, on brilliant
                    and stirring occasions, as simple, rude, and unsophisticated in the popular
                    science of excitement; but as far as the noble daring of Britain has sent forth
                    her adventurous sons, and that is to every point of danger on the habitable
                    globe, they have borne along with them a generosity, a disinterestedness, and a
                    moral courage, derived in 
                        so
                        no
                     small measure from the female influence of their native country.
                It is a fact well worthy of our most serious attention, and one which bears
                    immediately upon the subject under
                    consideration, that the present state of our national affairs is such as to
                    indicate that the influence of woman in counteracting the growing evils of
                    society is about to be more needed than ever.
                In our imperfect state of being, we seldom attain any great or national good
                    without its accompaniment of evil; and every improvement proposed for the
                    general weal, has, upon some individual, or some class of individuals, an effect
                    which it requires a fresh exercise of energy and principle to guard against.
                    Thus the great facilities of communication, not only throughout our own country,
                    but with distant parts of the world, are rousing men of every description to
                    tenfold exertion in the field of competition in which they are engaged; so that
                    their whole being is becoming swallowed up in efforts and calculations relating
                    to their pecuniary success. If to grow tardy or indifferent in the race were
                    only to lose the goal, many would be glad to pause; but such is the nature of
                    commerce and trade, as at present carried on in this country, that to slacken in
                    exertion, is altogether to fail. I would fain hope and believe of my countrymen,
                    that many of the rational and enlightened would now be willing to reap smaller
                    gains, if by so doing they could enjoy more
                    leisure. But a business only half attended to, soon ceases to be a business at
                    all; and the man of enlightened understanding, who neglects his, for the sake of
                    hours of leisure, must be content to spend them in the debtor's department of a
                    jail.
                Thus, it is not with single individuals that the blame can be made to rest. The
                    fault is in the system; and happy will it be for thousands of immortal souls,
                    when this system shall correct itself. In the mean time, may it not be said to
                    be the especial duty of women to look around them, and see in what way they can
                    counteract this evil, by calling back the attention of man to those sunnier
                    spots in his existence, by which the growth of his moral feelings have been
                    encouraged, and his heart improved?
                We cannot believe of the fathers who watched over our childhood, of the husbands
                    who shared our intellectual pursuits, of the brothers who went hand in hand with
                    us in our love of poetry and nature, that they are all gone over to the side of
                    mammon, that there does not lurk in some corner of their hearts a secret longing
                    to return; yet every morning brings the same hurried and indifferent parting,
                    every evening the same jaded, speechless, welcomeless return—until we almost
                    fail to recognize the man, in the machine.
                
                English homes have been much boasted of by English people, both at home and
                    abroad. What would a foreigner think of those neat, and sometimes elegant
                    residences, which form a circle of comparative gentility around our cities and
                    our trading towns? What would he think, when told that the fathers of those
                    families have not time to see their children, except on the Sabbath-day? and
                    that the mothers, impatient, and anxious to consult them about some of their
                    domestic plans, have to wait, perhaps for days, before they can find them for
                    five minutes disengaged, either from actual exertion, or from that sleep which
                    necessarily steals upon them immediately after the over-excitement of the day
                    has permitted them a moment of repose.
                And these are rational, intellectual, accountable, and immortal beings,
                    undergoing a course of discipline by which they are to be fitted for eternal
                    existence! What woman can look on without asking—“Is there nothing I can do, to
                    call them back?” Surely there is; but it never can be done by the cultivation of
                    those faculties which contribute only to selfish gratification. Since her
                    society is shared for so short a time, she must endeavour to make those moments
                    more rich in blessing; and since her influence is limited to so small a range of immediate operation, it should be
                    rendered so potent as to mingle with the whole existence of those she loves.
                Will an increase of intellectual attainments, or a higher style of
                    accomplishments, effect this purpose? Will the common-place frivolities of
                    morning calls, or an interminable range of superficial reading, enable them to
                    assist their brothers, their husbands, or their sons in becoming happier and
                    better men?
                No: let the aspect of society be what it may, man is a social being, and beneath
                    the hard surface he puts on, to fit him for the wear and tear of every day, he
                    has a heart as true to the kindly affections of our nature, as that of woman—as
                    true, though not as suddenly awakened to every pressing call. He has therefore
                    need of all her sisterly services, and, under the pressure of the present times,
                    he needs them more than ever, to foster in his nature, and establish in his
                    character, that higher tone of feeling, without which he can enjoy nothing
                    beyond a kind of animal existence—but with which, he may faithfully pursue the
                    necessary avocations of the day, and keep as it were a separate soul for his
                    family, his social duty, and his God.
                There is another point of consideration by which
                    this necessity for a higher degree of female influence is greatly increased, and
                    it is one which comprises much that is interesting to those who aspire to be the
                    supporters of their country's worth. The British throne being now graced by a
                    female sovereign, the auspicious promise of whose early years seems to form a
                    new era in the annals of our nation, and to inspire with brighter hopes and
                    firmer confidence the patriot bosoms of her expectant people; it is surely not a
                    time for the female part of the community to fall away from the high standard of
                    moral excellence, to which they have been accustomed to look, in the formation
                    of their domestic habits. Rather let them show forth the benefits arising from
                    their more enlightened systems of education, by proving to their youthful
                    sovereign, that whatever plan she may think it right to sanction for the moral
                    advancement of her subjects, and the promotion of their true interests as an
                    intelligent and happy people, will be welcomed by every female heart throughout
                    her realm, and faithfully supported in every British home by the female
                    influence prevailing there.
                It will be the business of the writer, through the whole of the succeeding pages
                    of this work, to endeavour to point out, how the women of England may render
                    this important service, not only to the members
                    of their own households, but to the community at large: and if I fail in
                    arousing them to bring as with one mind, their united powers to stem the popular
                    torrent now threatening to undermine the strong foundation of England's moral
                    worth, it will not be for want of earnestness in the cause, but because I am not
                    endowed with talent equal to the task.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER III.
                MODERN EDUCATION.
                IN writing on the subject of modern education, I cannot help
                    entertaining a fear lest some remarks I may in candour feel constrained to make,
                    should be construed into disrespect towards that truly praiseworthy and
                    laborious portion of the community, employed in conducting this education, and
                    pursuing, with laudable endeavours, what is generally believed to be the best
                    method of training up the young women of the present day. Such, however, is the
                    real state of my own sentiments, that I have long been accustomed to consider
                    this class of individuals as not only entitled to the highest pecuniary
                    consideration, but equally so to the first place in society, to the gratitude of
                    their fellow-creatures, and to the respect of mankind in general, who, both as
                    individuals, and as a 
                        com-
                        community
                     munity, are deeply indebted to them
                    for their indefatigable and often ill-requited services.
                A woman of cultivated understanding and correct religious principle, when engaged
                    in the responsible task of educating the rising generation, in reality fills one
                    of the most responsible stations to which a human being can aspire; and nothing
                    can more clearly indicate a low state of public morals than the vulgar
                    disrespect and parsimonious remuneration with which the agents employed in
                    education are sometimes requited.
                It is with what is taught, not with those who teach, that I am daring enough to
                    find fault. It may be that I am taking an unenlightened and prejudiced view of
                    the subject; yet, such is the strong conviction of my own mind, that I cannot
                    rest without attempting to prove that the present education of the women of
                    England does not fit them for faithfully performing the duties which devolve
                    upon them immediately after their leaving school, and throughout the whole of
                    their after lives—does not convert them from helpless children, into such
                    characters as all women must be, in order to be either esteemed or admired.
                Nor are their teachers accountable for this. It is the fashion of the day—it is
                    the ambition of the times, that all people should, as far as possible, learn all things of which the human intellect takes
                    cognizance; and what would be the consternation of parents whose daughter should
                    return home to them from school unskilled in modern accomplishments,—to whom her
                    governess should say, “It is true I have been unable to make your child a
                    proficient either in French or Latin, nor is she very apt at the use of the
                    globes, but she has been pre-eminent amongst my scholars for her freedom from
                    selfishness, and she possesses a nobility of feeling that will never allow her
                    to be the victim of meanness, or the slave of grovelling desires.”
                In order to ascertain what kind of education is most effective in making woman
                    what she ought to be, the best method is to inquire into the character, station,
                    and peculiar duties of woman throughout the largest portion of her earthly
                    career; and then ask, for what she is most valued, admired, and beloved?
                In answer to this, I have little hesitation in saying,—For her disinterested
                    kindness. Look at all the heroines, whether of romance or reality—at all the
                    female characters that are held up to universal admiration—at all who have gone
                    down to honoured graves, amongst the tears and the lamentations of their
                    survivors. Have these been the learned, the
                    accomplished women; the women who could speak many languages, who could solve
                    problems, and elucidate systems of philosophy? No: or if they have, they have
                    also been women who were dignified with the majesty of moral greatness—women who
                    regarded not themselves, their own feebleness, or their own susceptibility of
                    pain, but who, endued with an almost superhuman energy, could trample under-foot
                    every impediment that intervened between them and the accomplishment of some
                    great object upon which their hopes were fixed, while that object was wholly
                    unconnected with their own personal exaltation or enjoyment, and related only to
                    some beloved object, whose suffering was their sorrow, whose good their
                    gain.
                Woman, with all her accumulation of minute disquietudes, her weakness, and her
                    sensibility, is but a meagre item in the catalogue of humanity but, roused by a
                    sufficient motive to forget all these, or, rather, continually forgetting them
                    because she has other and nobler thoughts to occupy her mind, woman is truly and
                    majestically great.
                Never yet, however, was woman great, because she had great acquirements; nor can
                    she ever be great in herself—personally, and without instrumentality—as an
                    object, not an agent.
                
                From the beginning to the end of school education, the improvement of
                        self, so far as relates to intellectual attainments, is made
                    the rule and the motive of all that is done. Rewards are appointed and portioned
                    out for what has been learned, not what has been imparted. To gain, is the
                    universal order of the establishment; and those who have heaped together the
                    greatest sum of knowledge are usually regarded as the most meritorious.
                    Excellent discourses may be delivered by the preceptress upon the christian
                    duties of benevolence and disinterested love; but the whole system is one of
                    pure selfishness, fed by accumulation, and rewarded by applause. To be at the
                    head of the class to gain the ticket or the prize, are the points of universal
                    ambition; and few individuals, amongst the community of aspirants, are taught to
                    look forward with a rational presentiment to that future, when their merit will
                    be to give the place of honour to others, and their happiness to give it to
                    those who are more worthy than themselves.
                We will not assert that no one entertains such thoughts; for there is a voice in
                    woman's heart too strong for education—a principle which the march of intellect
                    is unable to overthrow.
                Retiring from the emulous throng, we sometimes find a little, despised, neglected
                    girl, who has won no prize, obtained no smile
                    of approbation from her superiors. She is a dull girl, who learns slowly, and
                    cannot be taught so as to keep up with the rest without incalculable pains. The
                    fact is, she has no great wish to keep up with them: she only wants to be loved
                    and trusted by her teachers; and oh! how does she wish, with tears, and almost
                    with prayers, that they would love and trust her, and give her credit for doing
                    her best. Beyond this she is indifferent; she has no motive but that of pleasing
                    others, for trying to be clever; and she is quite satisfied that her friend, the
                    most ambitious girl in the school, should obtain all the honours without her
                    competition. Indeed, she feels as though it scarcely would be delicate, scarcely
                    kind in her, to try so much to advance before her friend; and she gently falls
                    back, is reproved for her neglect, and, finally, despised.
                I knew a girl who was one of the best grammarians in a large school, whose friend
                    was peculiarly defective in that particular branch of learning. Once every year
                    the order of the class was reversed, the girl who held the highest place
                    exchanging situations with the lowest, and thus affording all an equal chance of
                    obtaining honours. The usual order of the class was soon restored, except that the good grammarian was always expected
                    by her friend to whisper in her ear a suitable answer to every question
                    proposed; and as this girl necessarily retrograded to the place to which her own
                    ignorance entitled her, her friend felt bound by affection and kindness to
                    relieve her distress every time the alarming question came to her turn
                        
                        .
                     She consequently remained the lowest in the class until the time of
                    her leaving the school, often subjected to the reproofs of her teachers, and
                    fully alive to her humiliating situation, but never once turning a deaf ear to
                    her friend, or refusing to assist her in her difficulties.
                In the schools of the ancients, an act of patient disinterestedness like this,
                    would have met with encouragement and reward; in the school where it took place,
                    it was well for both parties that it was never known.
                In making these and similar remarks, I am aware that I may bring upon myself the
                    charge of wishing to exclude from our schools all intellectual attainments
                    whatever; for how, it will be asked, can learning be acquired without emulation,
                    and without rewards for the diligent, and punishments for the idle?
                So far, however, from wishing to cast a shade of disrespect over such
                    attainments, I am decidedly of opinion that no
                    human being can know too much, so long as the sphere of knowledge does not
                    extend to what is positively evil. I am also of opinion that there is scarcely
                    any department of art or science, still less of mental application, which is not
                    calculated to strengthen and improve the mind; but at the same time I regard the
                    improvement of the heart of so much greater consequence, that if
                    time and opportunity should fail for both, I would strenuously recommend that
                    women should be sent home from school with fewer accomplishments, and more of
                    the will and the power to perform the various duties necessarily devolving upon
                    them.
                Again, I am reminded of the serious and important fact, that religion alone can
                    improve the heart; and to this statement no one can field assent with more
                    reverential belief in its truth than myself. I acknowledge, also, for I know it
                    to be a highly creditable fact, that a large proportion of the meritorious
                    individuals who take upon themselves the arduous task of training up the young,
                    are conscientiously engaged in giving to religious instruction that place which
                    it ought unquestionably to hold in every christian school. But I would ask, is
                        instruction all that is wanted for instilling into the minds of
                    the rising generation the benign principles of
                    christian faith and practice?
                It is not thought enough to instruct the young sculptor in the rules of his art,
                    to charge his memory with the names of those who have excelled in it, and, with
                    the principles they have laid down for the guidance of others.—No: he must work
                    with his own hand; and long before that hand, and the mind by which it is
                    influenced, have attained maturity, he must have learned to mould the pliant
                    clay, and have thus become familiar with the practice of his art.
                And shall this universally acknowledged system of instruction, for which we are
                    indebted for all that is excellent in art and admirable in science, be neglected
                    in the education of the young Christian alone? Shall he be taught the bare
                    theory of his religion, and left to work out its practice as he can? Shall he be
                    instructed in what he is to believe, and not assisted in doing also
                    the will of his heavenly Father?
                We all know that it is not easy to practise even the simplest rule of right, when
                    we have not been accustomed to do so; and the longer we are before we begin to
                    regulate our conduct by the precepts of religion, the more difficult it will be
                    to acquire such habits as are calculated to adorn and show forth the purity and excellence of its principles.
                There is one important difference between the acquisition of knowledge, and the
                    acquisition of good habits, which of itself ought to be sufficient to ensure a
                    greater degree of attention to the latter. When the little pupil first begins
                    her education, her mind is a total blank, as far as relates to the different
                    branches of study into which she is about to be introduced, and there is
                    consequently nothing to oppose. She is not prepossessed in favour
                    of any false system of arithmetic, grammar, or geography, and the ideas
                    presented to her on these subjects are consequently willingly received, and
                    adopted as her own.
                How different is the moral state of the uninstructed child! Selfishness coeval
                    with her existence has attained an alarming growth; and all the other passions
                    and propensities inherent in her nature, taking their natural course, have
                    strengthened with her advance towards maturity, and are ready to assume an
                    aspect too formidable to afford any prospect of their being easily brought into
                    subjection.
                Yet, notwithstanding this difference, the whole machinery of education is brought
                    to bear upon the intellectual part of her
                    nature, and her moral feelings are left to the training of the play-ground,
                    where personal influence rather than right feeling, too frequently decides her
                    disputes, and places her either high or low in the ranks of her companions.
                It is true, she is very seriously and properly corrected when
                        convicted of having done wrong, and an admirable
                        system of morals is promulgated in the school; but the subject
                    I would complain of is, that no means have yet been adopted for making the
                        practice of this system the object of highest importance in our
                    schools. No adequate means have been adopted for testing the generosity, the
                    high-mindedness, the integrity of the children who pursue their education at
                    school, until they leave it at the age of sixteen, when their moral faculties,
                    either for good or for evil, must have attained considerable growth.
                Let us single out from any particular seminary a child who has been there from
                    the years of ten to fifteen, and reckon, if it can be reckoned, the pains that
                    have been spent in making that child a proficient in Latin. Have the same pains
                    been spent in making her disinterestedly kind? And yet what man is there in
                    existence who would not rather his wife should be free from selfishness, than be
                    able to read Virgil without the use of a dictionary.
                
                There is no reason, however, why both these desirable ends should not be aimed
                    at, and as the child progresses in self-denial, forbearance, generosity, and
                    disinterested kindness, it might be her reward to advance in the acquisition of
                    languages, or of whatever accomplishments it might be thought most desirable for
                    her to attain. If I am told there would not be time for all the discipline
                    requisite for the practice of morals; I ask in reply, how much do most young
                    ladies learn at school, for which they never find any use in after life, and for
                    which, it is not probable from their circumstances that they ever should. Let
                    the hours spent upon music by those who have no ear—upon drawing, by those who
                    might almost be said to have no eye—upon languages, by those who never
                    afterwards speak any other than their mother-tongue—be added together year after
                    year; and an aggregate of wasted time will present itself, sufficient to alarm
                    those who are sensible of its value, and of the awful responsibility of using it
                    aright.
                It is impossible that the teachers or even the parents themselves should always
                    know the future destiny of the child; but there is an appropriate sphere for
                    women to move in, from which those of the middle class in England seldom deviate
                        very widely. This sphere has duties and
                    occupations of its own, from which no woman can shrink without culpability and
                    disgrace; and the question is, are women prepared for these duties and
                    occupations by what they learn at school?
                For my own part, I know not how education deserves the name, if it does not
                    prepare the individual whom it influences, for filling her appointed station in
                    the best possible manner. What, for instance, should we think of a school for
                    sailors, in which nothing was taught but the fine arts; or for musicians, in
                    which the students were only instructed in the theory of sound?
                With regard of the women of England, I have already ventured to assert that the
                    quality for which, above all others, they are esteemed and valued, is their
                    disinterested kindness. A selfish woman may not improperly be regarded as a
                    monster, especially in that sphere of life, where there is a constant demand
                    made upon her services. But how are women taught at school to forget themselves,
                    and to cultivate that high tone of generous feeling to which the world is so
                    much indebted for the hope and the joy, the peace and the consolation, which the
                    influence and companionship of woman is able to diffuse throughout its very
                    deserts, visiting, as with blessed 
                        sun-
                        sunshine
                     shine, the abodes of the wretched and
                    the poor, and sharing cheerfully the lot of the afflicted.
                In what school, or under what system of modern education, can it be said that the
                    chief aim of the teachers, the object to which their laborious exertions are
                    mainly directed, is to correct the evil of selfishness in the hearts of their
                    pupils? Improved methods of charging and surcharging the memory are eagerly
                    sought out, and pursued, at any cost of time and patience, if not of health
                    itself; but who ever thinks of establishing a selfish class amongst
                    the girls of her establishment, or of awarding the honours and distinctions of
                    the school to such as have exhibited the most meritorious instances of
                    self-denial for the benefit of others.
                It may be objected to this plan, that virtue ought to be its own reward, and that
                    honours and rewards adjudged to the most meritorious in a moral point of view,
                    would be likely to induce a degree of self-complacency wholly inconsistent with
                    christian meekness. I am aware that, in our imperfect state, no plan can be laid
                    down for the promotion of good, with which evil will not be liable to mix. All I
                    contend for is, that the same system of discipline, with the same end in view,
                    should be begun and carried on at school, as that to which the scholar will
                    necessarily be subjected in after life; and
                    that throughout the training of her early years, the same standard of merit
                    should be adopted, as she will find herself compelled to look up to, when
                    released from that training, and sent forth into the world to think and act for
                    herself.
                At school it has been the business of every day to raise herself above her
                    companions by attainments greater than theirs; in after life it will be the
                    business of every day to give place to others, to think of their happiness, and
                    to make sacrifices of her own to promote it. If such acts of self-denial, when
                    practised at school, should endanger the equanimity of her mind by the
                    approbation they obtain, what will they do in the world she is about to enter,
                    where the unanimous opinion of mankind, both in this, and in past ages, is in
                    their favour, and where she must perpetually hear woman spoken of in terms of
                    the highest commendation, not for her learning, but for her disinterested
                    kindness, her earnest zeal in promoting the happiness of her fellow-creatures,
                    and the patience and forbearance with which she studies to mitigate affliction
                    and relieve distress?
                Would it not be safer, then, to begin at a very early age to make the practice of
                    these virtues the chief object of their lives, guarding at the same time against any self-complacency that might attach
                    to the performance of them, by keeping always before their view, higher and
                    nobler instances of virtue in others; and especially by a strict and constant
                    reference to the utter worthlessness of all human merit, in comparison with the
                    mercy and forgiveness that must ever impose a debt of gratitude upon our own
                    souls?
                Taking into consideration the various excellencies and peculiarities of woman, I
                    am inclined to think that the sphere which of all others admits of the highest
                    developement of her character, is the chamber of sickness; and how frequently
                    and mournfully familiar are the scenes in which she is thus called to act and
                    feel, let the private history of every family declare.
                There is but a very small proportion of the daughters of farmers, manufacturers,
                    and tradespeople, in England, who are ever called upon for their Latin, their
                    Italian, or even for their French; but all women in this sphere of life are
                    liable to be called upon to visit and care for the sick; and if in the hour of
                    weakness and of suffering, they prove to be unacquainted with any probable means
                    of alleviation, and wholly ignorant of the most judicious and suitable mode of
                    offering relief and consolation, they are indeed deficient in one of the highest attainments in the way of usefulness, to
                    which a woman can aspire.
                To obviate the serious difficulties which many women experience from this cause,
                    I would propose, as a substitute for some useless accomplishments, that English
                    girls should be made acquainted with the most striking phenomena of some of the
                    familiar, and frequently recurring maladies to which the human frame is liable,
                    with the most approved methods of treatment. And by cultivating this knowledge
                    so far as relates to general principles, I have little doubt but it might be
                    made an interesting and highly useful branch of education.
                I am far from wishing them to interfere with the province of the physician. The
                    more they know, the less likely they will be to do this. The office of a
                    judicious nurse is all I would recommend them to aspire to; and to the same
                    department of instruction should be added the whole science of that delicate and
                    difficult cookery which forms so important a part of the attendant's duty.
                Nor let these observations call forth a smile upon the rosy lips that are yet
                    unparched by fever, untainted by consumption. Fair reader, there have been those
                    who would have given at the moment almost half their worldly wealth, to have been able to provide a palatable morsel
                    for a beloved sufferer; who have met the inquiring eye, that asked for it knew
                    not what, and that expressed by its anxious look an almost childish longing for
                    what they were unable to supply, not because the means were denied, but simply
                    because they were too ignorant of the nature and necessities of illness to form
                    any practical idea of what would be most suitable and most approved. Perhaps, in
                    their well-meant officiousness, they have mentioned the only thing they were
                    acquainted with, and that was just the most repulsive. What then have they
                    done?—Allowed the faint and feeble sufferer to go pining on, wishing it had been
                    her lot to fall under the care of any other nurse.
                How invaluable at such a time is the almost endless catalogue of good and
                    suitable preparations with which the really clever woman is supplied, any one of
                    which she is able to prepare with her own hands; choosing, with the skill of the
                    doctor, what is best adapted for the occasion, and converting diet into medicine
                    of the most agreeable description, which she brings silently into the sick-room
                    without previous mention, and thus exhilarates the spirits of the patient by an
                    agreeable surprise.
                
                It is customary with young ladies of the present day to think that nurses and
                    hired attendants ought to do these things; and well and faithfully they
                    sometimes do them, to the shame of those connected by nearer ties. But are they
                    ignorant that a hired hand can never impart such sweetness to a cordial as a
                    hand beloved; and that the most delicious and most effectual means of proving
                    the strength of their affection is to choose to do, what might by
                    possibility have been accomplished by another?
                When we meet in society with that speechless inanimate, ignorant, and useless
                    being called “a young lady just come from school,” it is thought a sufficient
                    apology for all her deficiencies, that she has, poor thing! but just come home
                    from school. Thus implying that nothing in the way of domestic usefulness,
                    social intercourse, or adaptation to circumstances, can be expected from her
                    until she has had time to learn it.
                If, during the four or five years spent at school, she had been establishing
                    herself upon the foundation of her future character, and learning to practise
                    what would afterwards be the business of her life, she would, when her education
                    was considered as complete, be in the highest possible state of perfection which
                    her nature, at that season of life, would admit
                    of. This is what she ought to be. I need not advert to what she is. The case is
                    too pitiful to justify any farther description. The popular and familiar remark,
                    “Poor thing! she has just come home from school; what can you expect?” is the
                    best commentary I can offer.
                There is another point of difference between the training of the intellect, and
                    that of the moral feelings, of more serious importance than any we have yet
                    considered.
                We all know that the occupation of teaching, as it relates to the common branches
                    of instruction, is one of such herculean labour, that few persons are found
                    equal to it for any protracted length of time; and even with such, it is
                    necessary that they should bend their minds to it with a determined effort, and
                    make each day a renewal of that effort, not to be baffled by difficulties, nor
                    defeated by want of success. We all know, too, what it is to the learner to be
                    dragged on day by day through the dull routine of exercises, in which she feels
                    no particular interest, except what arises from getting in advance of her
                    fellows, obtaining a prize, or suffering a punishment. We all can remember the
                    atmosphere of the school-room, so uncongenial to the fresh and buoyant spirits
                        of youth—the clatter of slates, the dull
                    point of the pencil, and the white cloud where the wrong figure, the figure that
                    would prove the incorrectness of the whole, had so often been rubbed out. To say
                    nothing of the morning lessons, before the dust from the desks and the floor had
                    been put in motion, we all can remember the afternoon sensations with which we
                    took our places, perhaps between companions the most unloved by us of any in the
                    school; and how, while the summer's sun was shining in through the high windows,
                    we pored with aching head over some dry dull words, that would not
                    transmit themselves to the tablet of our memories, though repeated with
                    indefatigable industry, repeated until they seemed to have no identity, no
                    distinctness, but were mingled with the universal hum and buzz of the close,
                    heated room; where the heart, if it did not forget itself to stone, at least
                    forgot itself to sleep, and lost all power of feeling anything but weariness,
                    and occasional pining for relief. Class after class were then called up from
                    this hot-bed of intellect. The tones of the teacher's voice, though not always
                    the most musical, might easily have been pricked down in notes, they were so
                    uniform in their cadences of interrogation, rejection, and reproof. These,
                    blending with the slow, dull answers of the
                    scholars, and occasionally the quick guess of one ambitious to attain the
                    highest place, all mingled with the general monotony, and increased the stupor
                    that weighed down every eye, and deadened every pulse.
                There are, unquestionably, quick children, who may easily be made fond of
                    learning, if judiciously treated; and it no doubt happens to all, that there are
                    portions of their daily duty not absolutely disagreeable; but that weariness is
                    the prevalent sensation both with the teachers and the taught, is a fact that
                    few will attempt to deny; nor is it a libel upon individuals thus engaged, or
                    upon human nature in general, that it should be so. We are so constituted that
                    we cannot spend all our time in the exercise of our intellect,
                    without absolute pain, especially while young; and when, in after life, we rise
                    with exhausted patience from three hours of writing or reading we cannot look
                    back with wonder that at school we suffered severely from the labour of six.
                It is not my province to describe how much the bodily constitution is impaired by
                    this incessant application to study. Philanthropical means are devised for
                    relieving the young student as much as possible, by varying the subjects of
                    attention, and allowing short intervals of bodily exercise: but still the high-pressure system goes on; and, with
                    all their attainments in the way of learning, few of the young ladies who return
                    home after a highly-finished education, are possessed of health and energy
                    sufficient to make use of their attainments, even if they occupied a field more
                    suited to their display.
                I know not how it may affect others, but the number of languid, listless, and
                    inert young ladies, who now recline upon our sofas, murmuring and repining at
                    every claim upon their personal exertions, is to me a truly melancholy
                    spectacle, and one which demands the attention of a benevolent and enlightened
                    public, even more, perhaps, than some of those great national schemes in which
                    the people and the government are alike interested. It is but rarely now that we
                    meet with a really healthy woman; and, highly as intellectual attainments may be
                    prized, I think all will allow that no qualifications can be of much value
                    without the power of bringing them into use.
                The difference I would point out, between the exercise of the intellect and that
                    of the moral feelings is this. It has so pleased the all-wise Disposer of our
                    lives, that the duties he has laid down for the right government of the human
                    family, have in their very nature something that expands and invigorates the soul; so that instead of being weary of
                    well-doing, the character becomes strengthened, the energies enlivened, and the
                    whole sphere of capability enlarged.
                Who has not felt, after a long, conflict between duty and inclination, when at
                    last the determination has been formed, and duty has been submitted to, not
                    grudgingly, but from very love to the Father of mercies, who alone can judge
                    what will eventually promote the good of his weak, erring, and short-sighted
                    creatures—from reverence for his holy laws, and from gratitude to the Saviour of
                    mankind;—who has not felt a sudden impulse of thanksgiving and delight as they
                    were enabled to make this decision, a springing up, as it were, of the soul from
                    the low cares and entanglements of this world, to a higher and purer state of
                    existence, where the motives and feelings under which the choice has been made,
                    will be appreciated and approved, but where every inducement that could have
                    been brought forward to vindicate a different choice, would have been rejected
                    at the bar of eternal justice?
                It is not the applause of man that can reach the heart under such circumstances.
                    No human eye is wished for, to look in upon our self-denial, or to witness the
                    sacrifice we make. The good we have attempted
                    to do may even fail in its effect. We know that the result is not with us, but
                    with Him who seeth in secret, and who has left us in possession of this
                    encouraging assurance, Inasmuch as ye do it unto one of these, ye do it onto
                        me.
                Was the human mind ever enfeebled, or the human frame exhausted, by feelings of
                    kindness? No! The hour of true refreshment and invigoration is that in which we
                    do our duty, whatever it may be, cheerfully and humbly, as in the sight of God;
                    not pluming ourselves upon our own merit, or anticipating great results, but
                    with a childlike dependence upon his promises, and devout aspirations to be ever
                    employed in working out his holy will.
                In the pursuit of intellectual attainments, we cannot encourage ourselves
                    throughout the day, nor revive our wearied energies at night, by saying, “It is
                    for the love of my heavenly Father that I do this.” But, as a very little child
                    may be taught, for the love of a lost parent, to avoid what that parent would
                    have disapproved; so the young may be cheered and led onward in the path of duty
                    by the same principle, connecting every action of their lives in which good and
                        evil may be blended, with the condemnation
                    or approval of their Father who is in heaven.
                There is no principle in our nature which at the same time softens and ennobles,
                    subdues and exalts, so much as the principle of gratitude; and it ought ever to
                    be remembered, in numbering our blessings, that gratitude has been made the
                    foundation of Christian morality. The ancient philosophers had their system of
                    morals, and a beautiful one it was. But it had this defect—it had no sure
                    foundation; sometimes shifting from expediency to the rights of man, and thus
                    having no fixed and determinate character. The happier system under which we are
                    privileged to live, has all the advantages acknowledged by the philosophers of
                    old, with this great and merciful addition, that it is peculiarly calculated to
                    wind itself in with our affections, by being founded upon gratitude, and thus to
                    excite, in connexion with the practice of all it enjoins, those emotions of mind
                    which are most conducive to our happiness.
                Let us imagine a little community of young women, amongst whom, to do an act of
                    disinterested kindness should be an object of the highest ambition, and where to
                    do any act of pure selfishness, tending, however remotely, to the injury of another, should be regarded as the deepest
                    disgrace; where they should be accustomed to consider their time not as their
                    own, but lent them solely for the purpose of benefiting their fellow-creatures;
                    and where those who were known to exercise the greatest charity and forbearance,
                    should be looked upon as the most exalted individual in the whole community.
                    Would these girls be weary? Would they be discontented, listless, and inanimate?
                    The experiment remains to be tried.
                It is a frequent and popular remark, that girls are less trouble to manage in
                    families than boys; and so unquestionably they are. But when their parents go on
                    to say that girls awaken less anxiety, are safer and more easily brought up, I
                    am disposed to think such parents look with too superficial a view to the
                    conduct of their children before the world, rather than the state of their
                    hearts before God.
                It is true that girls have little temptation, generally speaking, to vice. They
                    are so hemmed in and guarded by the rules of society, that they must be
                    destitute almost of the common feelings of human nature, to be willing, for any
                    consideration, to sacrifice their good name. But do such parents ever ask, how
                    much of evil may be cherished and indulged in,
                    and the good name retained? I am aware that amongst the generality of women
                    there is more religious feeling than amongst men, more observance
                    of the ordinances of religion, more reading of the scriptures, and more
                    attention to the means of religious information. But let not the woman who sits
                    in peace, and unassailed by temptation, in the quiet retirement of her own
                    parlour, look down with self-complacency and contempt upon the open
                    transgressions of her erring brother. Rather let her weigh in the scale his
                    strong passions, and strong inducements to evil, and, it may be, strong
                    compunctions too, against her own little envyings, bickerings, secret spite, and
                    soul-cherished idolatry of self; and then ask of her conscience which is
                    farthest in advance towards the kingdom of heaven.
                It is true, she has uttered no profane expression, but she has set afloat upon a
                    winged whisper the transgression of her neighbour. She has polluted her lips
                    with no intoxicating draught, but she has drunk of the Circean cup of flattery,
                    and acted from vanity and self-love, when she was professing to act from higher
                    motives. She has run into no excesses but the excess of display; and she has
                    injured no one by her bad example, except in the practice of petty faults. In short, she has not sinned beyond her own
                    temptations.
                One of the most striking features in the character of the young ladies of the
                    present day, is the absence of contentment. They are lively when excited, but no
                    sooner does the excitement cease, than they fall back into their habitual
                    listlessness, under which they so often complain of their fate, and speak of
                    themselves as unfortunate and afflicted, that one would suppose them to be
                    victims of adversity, did not a more intimate acquaintance with their actual
                    circumstances, convince us that they were surrounded by every thing conducive to
                    rational comfort. For the sake of the poetry of the matter, one would scarcely
                    deny to every young lady her little canker-worm to nurse in her bosom, since all
                    must have their pets. But when they add selfishness to melancholy, and trouble
                    their friends with their idle and fruitless complaints, the case becomes too
                    serious for a jest. Indeed, I am not sure that the professing Christian, who
                    rises every morning with a cherished distaste for the duties of the day, who
                    turns away when they present themselves, under a belief that they are more
                    difficult or more disgusting than the duties of other people, who regards her
                    own allotment in the world as peculiarly hard,
                    and never pours forth her soul in devout thanksgiving for the blessings she
                    enjoys, is not in reality as culpable in the sight of God, and living as much at
                    variance with the spirit of true religion, as the individual who spends the same
                    portion of time in the practice of more open and palpable sin.
                It is an undeniable improvement in modern education, that religious instruction
                    is becoming more general, that pupils are questioned in the knowledge of the
                    Scriptures, instructed in the truths of religion, and sent forth into the world
                    prepared to give an answer respecting the general outlines of Christianity. So
                    long, however, as the discontent above alluded to remains so prevalent, we must
                    question the sufficiency of this method of instruction; and it is under a strong
                    conviction, that to teach young people to talk about religion is but a small
                    part of what is necessary to the establishment of their christian characters,
                    that I have ventured to put forth what may be regarded as crude remarks upon
                    this important subject.
                I still cling fondly to the hope, that, ere long, some system of female
                    instruction will be discovered, by which the young women of England may be sent
                    home from school prepared for the stations
                    appointed them by Providence to fill in after life, and prepared to fill them
                    well. Then indeed may this favoured country boast of her privileges, when her
                    young women return to their homes and their parents, habituated to be on the
                    watch for every opportunity of doing good to others; making it the first and the
                    last inquiry of every day, “What can I do to make my parents, my brothers, or my
                    sisters, more happy? I am but a feeble instrument in the hands of Providence, to
                    work out any of his benevolent designs; but as he will give me strength, I hope
                    to pursue the plan to which I have been accustomed, of seeking my own happiness
                    only in the happiness of others.”
            
            
                
                CHAPTER IV.
                DRESS AND MANNERS.
                THAT the extent of woman's influence is not always commensurate with the
                    cultivation of her intellectual powers, is a truth which the experience and
                    observation of every day tend to confirm; for how often do we find that a lavish
                    expenditure upon the means of acquiring knowledge, is productive of no adequate
                    result in the way of lessening the sum of human misery.
                When we examine the real state of society, and single out the individuals whose
                    habits, conversation, and character produce the happiest effect upon their
                    fellow-creatures, we invariably find them persons who are morally,
                    rather than intellectually great; and consequently the possession of genius is,
                    to a woman, a birthright of very 
                        ques-
                        questionable
                     tionable value. It is a remark, not
                    always charitably made, but unfortunately too true, that the most talented women
                    are not the most agreeable in their domestic capacity; and frequent and
                    unsparing are the batteries of sarcasm and wit, which consequently open upon our
                    unfortunate blues? It should be remembered, however, that the evil
                    is not in the presence of one quality, but in the absence of another; and we
                    ought never to forget the redeeming excellence of those signal instances, in
                    which the moral worth of the female character is increased and supported by
                    intellectual power. If, in order to maintain a beneficial influence in society,
                    superior talent, or even a high degree of learning, were required, solitary and
                    insignificant would be the lot of some of the most social, benevolent, and
                    noble-hearted women, who now occupy the very centre of attraction within their
                    respective circles, and claim from all around them a just and appropriate
                    tribute of affection and esteem.
                It need scarcely be repeated, that although great intellectual attainments are by
                    no means the highest recommendation that a woman can possess, the opposite
                    extreme of ignorance, or natural imbecility of mind, are effectual barriers to
                    the exercise of any considerable degree of
                    influence in society. An ignorant woman who has not the good sense to keep
                    silent, or a weak woman pleased with her own prattle, are scarcely less annoying
                    than humiliating to those who, from acquaintance or family connexion, have the
                    misfortune to be identified with them; yet it is surprising how far a small
                    measure of talent, or of mental cultivation, may be made to extend in the way of
                    giving pleasure, when accompanied by good taste, good sense, and good feeling,
                    especially with that feeling which leads the mind from self and selfish motives,
                    into an habitual regard to the good and the happiness of others.
                The more we reflect upon this subject, the more we must be convinced, that there
                    is a system of discipline required for women, totally distinct from what is
                    called the learning of the schools, and that, unless they can be prepared for
                    their allotment in life by some process calculated to fit them for performing
                    its domestic duties, the time bestowed upon their education will be found, in
                    after life, to have been wholly inadequate to procure for them either habits of
                    usefulness, or a healthy tone of mind.
                It would appear from a superficial observation of the views of domestic and
                    social duty about to be presented, that in the estimation of the writer, the great business of a woman's life was to
                    make herself agreeable; for so minute are some of the points which properly
                    engage her attention, that they scarcely seem to bear upon the great object of
                    doing good. Yet when we reflect that by giving pleasure in an innocent and
                    unostentatious manner, innumerable channels are opened for administering
                    instruction, assistance, or consolation, we cease to regard as insignificant the
                    smallest of those means by which a woman can render herself an object either of
                    affection or disgust.
                First, then, and most familiar to common observation, is her personal appearance;
                    and in this case, vanity, more potent in woman's heart than selfishness, renders
                    it an object of general solicitude to be so adorned as best to meet and gratify
                    the public taste. Without inquiring too minutely into the motive, the custom, as
                    such, must be commended; for, like many of the minor virtues of women, though
                    scarcely taken note of in its immediate presence, it is sorely missed when
                    absent. A careless or slatternly woman, for instance, is one of the most
                    repulsive objects in creation; and such is the force of public opinion in favour
                    of the delicacies of taste and feeling in the female sex, that no power of
                    intellect, or 
                        dis-
                        display
                     play of learning, can compensate to
                    men, for the want of nicety or neatness in the women with whom they associate in
                    domestic life. In vain to them might the wreath of laurel wave in glorious
                    triumph over locks uncombed; and wo betide the heroine, whose stocking, even of
                    the deepest blue, betrayed a lurking hole!
                It is, however, a subject too serious for jest, and ought to be regarded by all
                    women with earnest solicitude that they may constantly maintain in their own
                    persons that strict attention to good taste and delicacy of feeling, which
                    affords the surest evidence of delicacy of mind; a quality without which no
                    woman ever was, or ever will be, charming. Let her appear in company with what
                    accomplishments she may, let her charm by her musical talents, attract by her
                    beauty, or enliven by her wit, if there steal from underneath her graceful
                    drapery, the soiled hem, the tattered frill, or even the coarse garment out of
                    keeping with her external finery, imagination naturally carries the observer to
                    her dressing-room, her private habits, and even to her inner mind, where, it is
                    almost impossible to believe that the same want of order and purity does not
                    prevail.
                It is a prevalent but most injurious mistake, to suppose that all women must be
                    splendidly and expensively dressed, to
                    recommend themselves to general approbation. In order to do this, how many, in
                    the sphere of life to which these remarks apply, are literally destitute of
                    comfort both in their hearts, and in their homes; for the struggle between
                    parents and children, to raise the means on one hand, and to obtain them either
                    by argument or subterfuge on the other, is but one amongst the many sources of
                    family discord and individual suffering, which mark out the excess of artificial
                    wants as the great evil of the present times.
                A very slight acquaintance with the sentiments and tone of conversation familiar
                    amongst men, might convince all whose minds are open to conviction, that
                        their admiration is not to be obtained by the display of any
                    kind of extravagance in dress. There may be occasional instances of the
                    contrary, but the praise most liberally and uniformly bestowed by men upon the
                    dress of women, is, that it is neat, becoming, or in good taste.
                The human mind is often influenced by association, while immediate impression is
                    all that it takes cognizance of at the moment. Thus a splendidly dressed woman
                    entering the parlour of a farm-house, or a tradesman's drawing-room, bursts upon
                    the sight as an astounding and almost monstrous
                    spectacle; and we are scarcely aware that the repulsion we instantaneously
                    experience, arises from a secret conviction of how much the gorgeous fabric must
                    have cost the wearer, in time, and thought, and money; especially when we know
                    that the same individual is under the necessity of spending her morning hours in
                    culinary operations, and is, or ought to be, the sharer of her husband's daily
                    toil.
                There is scarcely any object in art or nature, calculated to excite our
                    admiration, which may not, from being ill-placed, excite our ridicule or
                    disgust. Each individual article of clothing worn by this woman, may be superb
                    in itself, but there is a want of fitness and harmony in the whole, from which
                    we turn away.
                Perhaps there are no single objects in themselves so beautiful as flowers, and it
                    might seem difficult to find a situation in which they could be otherwise; yet I
                    have seen—and seen with a feeling almost like pity—at the conclusion of a feast,
                    fair rose-leaves and sweet jessamine floating amidst such inappropriate
                    elements, that all their beauty was despoiled, and they were fit only to be cast
                    away with the refuse of gross matter in which they were involved.
                Admiration of a beautiful object, how intense
                    soever it may be, cannot impart that high tone of intellectual enjoyment which
                    arises from our admiration of fitness and beauty combined; and thus the richest
                    silk, and the finest lace, when inappropriately worn, are beautifully
                    manufactured articles, but nothing more. While, therefore, on the one hand,
                    there is a moral degradation in the consciousness of wearing soiled or
                    disreputable garments, or in being in any way below the average of personal
                    decency; there is, on the other, a gross violation of good taste, in assuming
                    for the middle classes of society, whose occupations are closely connected with
                    the means of bodily subsistence, the same description of personal ornament, as
                    belongs with more propriety to those who enjoy the luxury of giving orders,
                    without any necessity for farther occupation of time or thought.
                The most frequently recurring perplexities of woman's life arise from cases which
                    religion does not immediately reach, and in which she is still expected to
                    decide properly, and act agreeably without any other law than that of good taste
                    for her guide. Good taste is therefore most essential to the regulation of her
                    dress and general appearance; and wherever any striking violation of this
                    principle appears, the beholder is immediately
                    impressed with the idea that a very important rule of her life and conduct is
                    wanting. It is not all who possess this guide within themselves; but an
                    attentive observation of human life and character, especially a due regard to
                    the beauty of fitness, would enable all to avoid giving offence in this
                    particular way.
                The regard to fitness here recommended, is a duty of much more serious importance
                    than would at first sight appear, since it involves a consideration which cannot
                    too often be presented to the mind, of what, and who we are?—what is the station
                    we are appointed to fill, and what the objects for which we are living!
                Behold yon gorgeous fabric in the distance, with its rainbow hues, and gems, and
                    shining drapery, 
                        “And flowers the fairest that might feast the bee.”
                     A coronet of beauty crowns the whole, and feathery ornaments, on frail
                    silvery threads, glitter, and wave, and tremble at every moving breath. Surely
                    the countenance of Flora blooms below, and Zephyrus suspends his gentle wings at
                    her approach. The spectacle advances. It is not health, nor youth, nor beauty,
                    that we see; but poor, decrepit, helpless, miserable old age. We gaze, and a shudder comes over us, for Death is
                    grinning in the back-ground, and we hear his voice triumphantly exclaiming,
                    “This is mine!”
                Look at that moving garden, and those waving plumes, as they pass along the aisle
                    of the church or the chapel. They form the adornment of a professedly christian
                    woman, the mother of a family; and this is the day appointed for partaking of
                    that ordinance to which Christians are invited to come in meekness and lowliness
                    of spirit, to commemorate the love of their Redeemer, who, though he was rich,
                    for their sakes became poor—who humbled himself, and became obedient unto death,
                    to purchase their exemption from the penalty of sin, and the bondage of the
                    world.
                We would earnestly hope that, in the greater number of such cases as these, the
                    error is in the judgment—the mockery thoughtlessly assumed: but would not the
                    habit of self-examination, followed up by serious inquiry respecting our real
                    and individual position in society, as moral agents and immortal beings, be a
                    likely means of averting the ridicule that age is ill prepared to bear; and,
                    what is of infinitely more consequence, of preventing the scandal that religion
                    has too much cause to charge upon her friends?
                
                It frequently happens that women in the middle class of society are not entirely
                    free from provincialisms in their manner of speaking, as well as other
                    peculiarities, by which it may easily be discovered that their interests are
                    local, and their means of information of limited extent; in short, that they are
                    persons who have but little acquaintance with the polite or fashionable world;
                    and yet they may be persons highly estimable and important in their own sphere.
                    Very little either of esteem or importance, however, attaches to their
                    characters, where their ingenuity is taxed to maintain what they believe to be a
                    fashionable or elegant exterior, and which, in connexion with their unpolished
                    dialect and homely occupations, renders them but too much like the
                    chimney-sweepers' queen decked out for a May-day exhibition. The invidious
                    question unavoidably occurs to the beholder—for what or for whom has such a
                    person mistaken herself? while, had she been dressed in a plain substantial
                    costume, corresponding with her mind and habits, she might have been known at
                    once, and respected for what she really was,—a rational, independent, and
                    valuable member of society.
                It is not, by any means, the smallest of the services required by christian
                    charity, to point out to our
                    fellow-countrywomen how they may avoid being ridiculous. Perhaps a higher degree
                    of intellectual dignity would raise us all above the weakness of being moved to
                    laughter by so slight a cause. But such is the constitution of the general order
                    of minds, that they are less entertained by the most pointed witticisms, than by
                    those striking contrasts and discrepancies, which seem to imply that rusticity
                    has mistaken itself for elegance, deformity for beauty, age for youth. I pretend
                    not to defend this propensity to turn so serious a mistake into jest. I merely
                    say that such a propensity does exist, and, what is amongst the anomalies of our
                    nature, that it sometimes exhibits itself most unreservedly in the very
                    individuals who in their turn are furnishing food for merriment to others.
                The laughing philosopher might have reasoned thus, “Let them all laugh on, they
                    will cure each other.” But the question is—does ridicule correct the evil? Most
                    assuredly it does not. It does something more, however. It rankles like a poison
                    in the bosom where it falls, and destroys the peace of many an amiable but
                    ill-judging candidate for public admiration. Women, especially, are its victims
                    and its prey; and well do they learn, under the secret tutelage of envy,
                        jealousy, and pride, how to make this
                    engine of discord play upon each other.
                When we listen to the familiar conversation of women, especially of those whose
                    minds are tainted by vulgarity, and unenlightened by the higher principles of
                    religion, we find that a very large portion of their time and attention is
                    bestowed upon the subject of dress—not of their own dress merely, but of that of
                    their neighbours; and in drawing conclusions, the most critical and minute, from
                    the precise grade of gentility which such individuals are supposed to assume.
                    Looking farther, we find, what is more astonishing, that there exists in
                    connexion with the same subject a degree of rivalry and ambition which call
                    forth many of the evil passions that are ever ready to spring into action, and
                    mar the pleasant pictures of social life. In awakening these, the ridicule
                    already alluded to is a powerful agent; for, like the most injurious of libels,
                    it adheres so nearly to the truth, as to set contradiction at defiance. Thus,
                    there are few persons who would not rather be maligned than ridiculed; and thus
                    the wounds indicted by ridicule are the most difficult to heal, and the last to
                    be forgiven.
                Surely, then, it is worth paying some regard to the principles of fitness and
                    consistency, in order to avoid the
                    consequences necessarily resulting from every striking deviation from these
                    rules; and the women of England possess many advantages in the cultivation of
                    their natural powers of discrimination and reason, for enabling them to
                    ascertain the precise position of this line of conduct, which it is so important
                    to them to observe. They are free from many of the national prejudices
                    entertained by the women of other countries, and they enjoy the inestimable
                    privilege of being taught to look up to a higher standard of morals, for the
                    right guidance of their conduct. It is to them, therefore, that we look for what
                    rational and useful women ought to be, not only in the essentials of christian
                    character, but in the minor points of social, domestic, and individual duty.
                Much that has been said on the subject of dress, is equally applicable to that of
                    manners. Fitness, and adaptation, are here, as well as in the former instance,
                    the general rule; for of what value is elegance in a cottage, or the display of
                    animal strength at a European court?
                In the middle walks of life, an easy manner, free from affectation on the one
                    hand, and grossness on the other, is all that is required; and such are, or
                        ought to be, the occupations of all women of this class, as most happily to induce such
                    habits of activity and free-agency, as would effectually preserve them from the
                    two extremes of coldness and frivolous absurdity.
                The grand error of the day seems to be, that of calling themselves
                        ladies, when it ought to be their ambition to be
                        women,—women who fill a place, and occupy a post—members of the
                    commonwealth—supporters of the fabric of society,—the minor wheels and secret
                    springs of the great machine of human life and action, which cannot move
                    harmoniously, nor with full effect to the accomplishment of any great or noble
                    purpose, while clogged with the lovely burdens, and impeded by the still-life
                    attitudes of those useless members of the community, who cast themselves about
                    on every hand, in the vain hope of being valued and admired for doing
                    nothing.
                Amongst the changes introduced by modern taste, it is not the least striking,
                    that all the daughters of trades-people, when sent to school, are no longer
                    girls, but young ladies. The linen-draper whose worthy consort occupies her
                    daily post behind the counter, receives her child from Mrs. Montague's
                    establishment—a young lady. At the same elegant and expensive seminary, music
                    and Italian are taught to Hannah Smith, whose
                    father deals in Yarmouth herrings; and there is the butcher's daughter, too,
                    perhaps the most ladylike of them all. The manners of these young ladies
                    naturally take their tone and character from the ridiculous assumptions of
                    modern refinement. The butcher's daughter is seized with nausea at the spectacle
                    of raw meat—Hannah Smith is incapable of existing, within the atmosphere of her
                    father's home—and the child of the linen-draper elopes with a merchant's clerk,
                    to avoid the dire necessity of assisting in her father's shop.
                What a catalogue of miseries might be made out, as the consequence of this
                    mistaken ambition of the women of England to be ladies! Gentlewomen they may be,
                    and refined women too; for when did either gentleness or true refinement
                    disqualify a woman for her proper duties? But that assumption of delicacy which
                    unfits them for the real business of life, is more to be dreaded in its fatal
                    influence upon their happiness, than the most agonizing disease with which they
                    could be afflicted.
                It is needless to say that women of this morbid, imbecile character have no
                    influence. They are so occupied with the minutiæ of their own personal miseries,
                    that they have no time to think of the sin and
                    the sorrow existing in the world around them. Whatever is proposed to them in
                    the way of doing good, is sure to meet with a listless, weary, murmuring denial:
                    for if the hundred-and-one objections, arising out of other fancied causes,
                    should be obviated, there are their endless and inexhaustible nerves. Alas!
                    alas! that English women should ever have found themselves out to be possessed
                    of nerves! Not the most exquisite creation of the poet's fancy was ever supposed
                    to be more susceptible of pain, than is now the highly-educated young lady, who
                    reclines upon a couch in an apartment slightly separated from that in which her
                    father sells his goods, and but one remove from the sphere of her mother's
                    culinary toil.
                How different from this feeble, discontented, helpless thing, is the woman who
                    shows by her noble bearing that she knows her true position in society; and who
                    knows, also, that the virtue and the value attaching to her character must be in
                    exact proportion to the benefit she confers upon her fellow-creatures;—above
                    all, who feels that the only Being who is capable of knowing what is ultimately
                    best, has seen meet to place her exactly where the powers of her mind and the
                    purposes of her life may be made most conducive to his merciful and wise designs. Not the meanest habiliments, nor the most
                    homely personal aspect, can conceal the worth and dignity of such a woman; and
                    whatever that position with which she has made herself so well acquainted may
                    be, she will find that her influence extends to its remotest circle.
                It is impossible to say what the manners of such a woman are. In the cottage, in
                    the court, in the daily and hourly performance of social services, they are, and
                    must be, characterised by the same attributes—general adaptation supported by
                    dignity, a high sense of duty predominating over every tendency to selfish
                    indulgence, and prompting to the performance of every kind of practical good, a
                    degree of self-respect, without which no talent can be matured, and no purpose
                    rendered firm; yet, along with this, a far higher degree of respect for others,
                    exhibited in modes of deference, and acts of consideration as various as the
                    different characters whose good or whose happiness are the subjects of her care;
                    and, lastly, that sweet sister of benevolence, charity, without
                    which no woman ever yet could make herself a desirable companion or friend.
                It may be said that these are virtues, not modes of conduct; but how much of
                    virtue, particularly that of charity, may be
                    implied and understood by what is commonly called manner. That
                    which in the present day is considered the highest attainment in this branch of
                    conduct, is, a lady-like manner, and it is one that well deserves the attention
                    of all who wish to recommend themselves—who wish, as all must do, to ward off
                    insulting familiarity, and court respectful consideration. There are, however,
                    many impressions conveyed to the minds of others by mere manner, far exceeding
                    this in interest and importance. What, for instance, is so consoling to the
                    afflicted as a sympathizing manner? The direct expression of sympathy might
                    possibly give pain; but there is a manner, and happy are they who possess it,
                    which conveys a silent invitation to the sorrowing soul to unburden its griefs,
                    with an assurance that it may do so without fear of treachery or unkindness.
                    There seems to be an instinct in our nature by which this mode of expressing
                    sympathy is rendered intelligible; and who that has any thing to do with sorrow
                    or suffering, or any wish to alleviate the pressure of either, would not desire
                    that their manner should be so fraught with sympathy, as to impart the
                    consolation they may be unable to express in words?
                Who, on the other hand, in a world which all
                    the afflicted are disposed to consider cold and unfeeling, has not felt what it
                    was, to meet with that peculiar tone of voice, that long, earnest gaze of the
                    eye, and that watchfulness of personal comfort, which belong to a degree of
                    interest deeper than can be told, and which convince, beyond the power of
                    language, that we are not—we cannot be overlooked or forgotten? How many an
                    alien has been invited to return by a look, a tone, a gesture, when no power of
                    speech would have conveyed the same impression of a welcome! How many a
                    prejudice has been overcome—how many a dangerous resolution broken—how many a
                    dark design defeated by a conciliating and confiding manner! and may it not also
                    be asked, how many an insult has been repelled by a manner fraught with dignity;
                    how many an injury has been returned into the bosom where it originated, by a
                    manner which conveyed all the bitterness of cherished and determined
                    revenge?
                To those who make the human mind their study, the mode of acting is of more
                    importance than the action itself; and to women it is especially so, because the
                    sphere in which they actually move is comparatively limited and obscure. It is
                    seldom regarded as consistent with that delicacy which forms so great a charm in
                    their nature, that they should act out to
                    their full extent all the deep feelings of which they are capable. Thus there is
                    no other channel for their perpetual overflow, than that of their manners; and
                    thus a sensitive and ingenious woman can exhibit much of her own character, and
                    lead others out into the display of much of theirs, simply by the
                    instrumentality of her manners; and, upon the same principle, that good breeding
                    which obtains the highest applause in society, is but an imitation or assumption
                    of every moral excellence, depicted on a minor scale.
                Good manners are the small-coin of virtue, distributed abroad as an earnest—we
                    will not ask how fallacious—of the greater and better things that lie beyond.
                    The women of England are becoming increasingly solicitous about their manners,
                    that they may in all points resemble such as prevail in a higher circle of
                    society, and be, consequently, the best. But would it not be more advantageous
                    to them, to bestow the same increase of solicitude upon what constitutes the
                    true foundation of all that is amiable and excellent in life and conduct? Would
                    it not be more advantageous to them to remember, that in the sphere of life
                    appointed for them to fill, stronger and more efficient traits of character are
                    required, than can possibly be classed under the epithet of
                        ladylike? Not that coarseness
                    or vulgarity of manner could ever be tolerated in those delicate intimacies, and
                    intellectual associations, which properly belong to the class of women of whom
                    England had once a right to boast—intimacies and associations, intervening, like
                    gleams of sunshine, between their seasons of perplexity and care; but the
                    manners I would earnestly recommend to my countrywomen are of a character
                    calculated to convey an idea of much more than refinement; they are
                    manners to which a high degree of moral influence belongs, inasmuch as they
                    inspire confidence, command esteem, and contribute to the general sum of human
                    happiness.
                Adaptation is the leading feature in this class of manners—adaptation, not only
                    to the circumstances of the person who acts and speaks, but also to the
                    circumstances of those upon whom such speech or action operates. A light,
                    careless, sportive manner is sometimes thought exceedingly charming; and when it
                    emanates from youth and innocence, can scarcely fail to please; but when such a
                    manner is affected by a woman of ponderous personal weight, of
                    naturally grave countenance, and responsible station in society, none can avoid
                    being struck with the obvious anomaly, and few can avoid being moved to laughter
                    or contempt.
                
                In English society it frequently happens that persons of humble parentage, and
                    homely station, in early life, are raised, by the acquisition of wealth, to the
                    enjoyment of luxurious indulgence. How absurd in such cases, is that assumption
                    of delicacy and of aristocratic dignity, which we too often see, and which is
                    sure to give rise to every variety of uncharitable remark upon what they and
                    their families have been.
                Self-importance, or rather a prevailing consciousness of self, is the most
                    universal hinderance to the attainment of agreeable manners. A woman of delicate
                    feelings and cultivated mind, who goes into company determined to
                        be interested, rather than to interest, can scarcely fail to
                    please. We are assured, however, that in this respect there is something very
                    defective in the present state of society. All desire to make an impression,
                    none to be impressed; and thus the social intercourse of every day is rendered
                    wearisome if not disgusting, by the constant struggle of each contending party
                    to assume the same relative position.
                An instance relating immediately to an animal of inferior grade in the creation
                    to man, but bearing some affinity to the case in point, is told by a traveller,
                    whose party having shot several old monkeys, took home their young ones to the
                        camp where he was stationed. He amused
                    himself in the evening by watching these little animals, which had been so
                    accustomed to be caressed and carried about by their parents, that they expected
                    the same services from each other, and by their persevering efforts to obtain
                    assistance from those who in an equal degree required it from them, formed
                    themselves into a tumultuous heap, and nearly worried each other to death.
                It might be invidious to compare the tumult of feeling, the weariness, and the
                    fatality to happiness experienced by these animals, to that which is produced by
                    the general desire to make an impression, in modern society; but none can be
                    blind to the fact, that a determination to be pleased in company, is the surest
                    means of giving pleasure, as well as of receiving it.
                A young lady who has not had an opportunity of conversing, of playing, or of
                    showing off in any other way, is almost sure to return from an evening party
                    complaining of its dulness, and discontented with herself, as well as with
                    everyone beside. Ask her if such and such agreeable and intelligent persons were
                    not present; and she answers, “Yes.” Ask her if they did not converse, and
                    converse pleasantly; and still she answers, “Yes.” What then? The fact is, she
                    has herself made no impression,
                    charmed nobody, and therefore, as a necessary consequence, she is not
                    charmed.
                How much more happiness does that woman experience, who, when in company, directs
                    her attention to her nearest neighbour; and, beholding a cheerful countenance,
                    or hearing a pleasant voice, is encouraged to proceed in cultivating an
                    acquaintance, which may ultimately ripen into friendship, may teach her some
                    useful lesson, or raise her estimate of her fellow-creatures. Even where no such
                    agreeable results are experienced, where the party attempted proves wholly
                    impracticable, there is still a satisfaction in having made the trial, far
                    beyond what can be experienced by any defeated attempt to be agreeable. Indeed,
                    the disappointment of having failed to make a pleasing impression, merely for
                    the purpose of gratifying our own vanity, without reference to the happiness of
                    others, is adapted in an especial manner to sour the temper, and depress the
                    mind; because we feel, along with the disappointment, a mortifying consciousness
                    that our ambition has been of an undignified and selfish kind; while, if our
                    endeavour has been to contribute to the general sum of social enjoyment, by
                    encouraging the diffident, cultivating the acquaintance of the amiable, and
                    stimulating latent talent, we cannot feel
                    depressed by such a failure, nor mortified at our want of success.
                The great question with regard to modern education is, which of these two classes
                    of feeling does it instil into the mind—does it inspire the young women of the
                    present day with an amiable desire to make every body happy around them? or does
                    it teach them only to sing, and play, and speak in foreign languages, and
                    consequently leave them to be the prey of their own disappointed feelings,
                    whenever they find it impossible to make any of these qualifications tell upon
                    society?
            
            
                
                CHAPTER V.
                CONVERSATION OF THE WOMEN OF ENGLAND.
                IT may not, perhaps, be asking too much of the reader, to request that
                    gentle personage to bear in mind, that in speaking both of the characteristics
                    and the influence of a certain class of females, strict reference has been
                    maintained, throughout the four preceding chapters, to such as may with justice
                    be denominated true English women. With puerile exotics, bending
                    from their own feebleness, and wandering like weeds, about the British garden,
                    to the hinderance of the growth of all useful plants, this work has little to
                    do, except to point out how they might have been cultivated to better
                    purpose.
                I have said of English women, that they are the best fire-side companions; but I
                    am afraid that my remark must apply to a very small portion of the community at large. The number of those who are
                    wholly destitute of the highest charm belonging to social companionship, is
                    lamentably great: and these pages would never have been obtruded upon the notice
                    of the public, had there not been strong symptoms of the number becoming greater
                    still.
                Women have the choice of many means of bringing their principles into exercise,
                    and of obtaining influence, both in their own domestic sphere, and in society at
                    large. Amongst the most important of these is conversation; an
                    engine so powerful upon the minds and characters of mankind in general, that
                    beauty fades before it, and wealth in comparison is but as leaden coin. If
                    match-making were indeed the great object of human life, I should scarcely dare
                    to make this assertion, since few men choose women for their conversation, where
                    wealth or beauty are to be had. I must, however, think more nobly of the female
                    sex, and believe them more solicitous to maintain affection after the match is
                    made, than simply to be led to the altar, as wives whose influence will that day
                    be laid aside with their wreaths of white roses, and laid aside for ever.
                If beauty or wealth have been the bait in this connexion, the bride may gather up
                    her wreath of roses, and place them again upon
                    her polished brow; nay, she may bestow the treasures of her wealth without
                    reserve, and permit the husband of her choice to 
                        “spoil her goodly lands, to gild his waste;”
                     she may do what she will—dress, bloom, or descend from affluence to
                    poverty; but if she has no intellectual hold upon her husband's heart, she must
                    inevitably become that most helpless and pitiable of earthly objects—a slighted
                    wife.
                Conversation, understood in its proper character, as distinct from mere talk,
                    might rescue her from this. Not conversation upon books, if her husband happens
                    to be a fox-hunter; nor upon fox-hunting, if he is a book-worm; but exactly that
                    kind of conversation which is best adapted to his tastes and habits, yet at the
                    same time capable of leading him a little out of both into a wider field of
                    observation, and subjects he may never have derived amusement from before,
                    simply from the fact of their never having been presented to his notice.
                How pleasantly the evening hours may be made to pass, when a woman who really can
                    converse, will thus beguile the time. But, on the other hand, how wretched is
                    the portion of that man who dreads the dulness
                    of his own fireside! who sees the clog of his existence ever seated there—the
                    same, in the deadening influence she has upon his spirits to-day, as yesterday,
                    to-morrow, and the next day, and the next! Welcome, thrice welcome, is the
                    often-invited visiter, who breaks the dismal dual of this scene.
                Married women are often spoken of in high terms of commendation for their
                    personal services, their handiwork, and their domestic management; but I am
                    inclined to think that a married woman, possessing all these, and even beauty
                    too, yet wanting conversation, might become “weary, stale, flat, and
                    unprofitable,” in the estimation of her husband; and, finally, might drive him
                    from his home by the leaden weight of her uncompanionable society.
                I know not whether other minds have felt the same as mine under the pressure of
                    some personal presence without fellowship of feeling. Innocent and harmless the
                    individual may be who thus inflicts the grievance, yet there is an irksomeness
                    in their mere bodily presence, almost intolerable to be borne; and in proportion
                    to the estimate we form of real society, and companionship, and sympathy of
                    feeling, is the dread we entertain of association with mere animal life in its
                        human form, while nothing of this
                    fellowship of feeling is experienced.
                There cannot, however, be a greater mistake in the science of being agreeable,
                    than to suppose that conversation must be made a business of. Oh! the misery of
                    being pitted against a professional converser!—one who looks from side to side
                    until a vacant ear is found, and commences a battery of declamation if you will
                    not answer, and of argument if you will. Indeed the immense variety of
                    annoyances deducible from ill-managed conversation, are a sufficient proof of
                    its importance in society; and any one disposed to dispute this fact, need only
                    recall the many familiar instances of disappointment and chagrin, which all who
                    mix in any manner with what is called the world, must have experienced, from
                    mistaken views of what is agreeable in conversation.
                It would be vain to attempt an enumeration of the different aspects under which
                    this peculiar kind of annoyance presents itself. A few heads will be sufficient
                    for the different classes of injudicious talkers. First, then, we naturally
                    think of those who have obtained the conventional appellation of
                        bores; or, to describe them more politely, the class of talkers
                    whose over-solicitude is proportioned to their difficulty in obtaining
                        patient hearers. These, again, may be
                    subdivided into endless varieties, of which a few specimens will suffice. Yet
                    amongst all these, even the most inveterate, may be found worthy individuals,
                    whose qualifications for imparting both instruction and amusement are by no
                    means contemptible.
                Entitled to distinction in the art of annoyance are the hobby-riders—those who
                    not only ride a favourite hobby themselves, but expect every one they meet with
                    to mount and ride the same. It matters not whether their ruling subject be
                    painting or politics, except that minds devoted to the fine arts have generally
                    about them some delicacy as to the reception of their favourites, and are too
                    shrinkingly alive to the slights they may receive, to risk their introduction
                    without some indication of a welcome. Still there are exceptions even to this
                    rule, and nothing can be more wearisome to the uninitiated, or more
                    unintelligible to the unpractised ear, than the jargon poured forth by an
                    amateur painter without regard to the tastes or the understandings of those
                    around him.
                Perhaps his fellow-traveller is seated on some gentle eminence, drinking in the
                    deep quiet of a summer's evening, not merely from sight, but sound, and blending
                    all with treasured memories of the past, in
                    which no stranger could intermeddle, when the painter bursts upon him with his
                    technicalities, and the illusion is gone. He raves about the
                        breadth of the colouring. His companion sees the long tall
                    shadows of the trees reflected on the sloping green, with the golden sunset
                    gleaming in between the stems, and through the interstices of the foliage, and
                    he knows not where the poetry or even the truth of this wonderful property of
                    breadth can be. The painter descants upon the bringing out of the
                    distant cottage from the wood. His companion is of opinion it would be better to
                    let it remain where it is—half hid in the retirement of the forest, and sending
                    up, as it seems, from the very bosom of the silent shade, its wreath of curling
                    smoke to indicate the social scene beneath its rustic roof, prepared for, by the
                    lighting of the woodman's fire. But the painter is not satisfied. He calls upon
                    his friend to observe the grouping of the whole. He must have the
                    outline broken. The thing is done. His sketch is exhibited in triumph, and he
                    raves on, with accelerated delight, for he has cleft the hills in twain, and
                    placed a group of robbers on the broken ground. Alas! how should his companion
                    believe or understand! His thoughts are expatiating upon that scene, because its sloping hills, and cultivated
                    fields, and gardens, and orchards, and village churchyard, are like the spot
                    where he was born, and where his father died—and he sees no mountain gorge, nor
                    bandit chief, nor hears the rush of torrents on the breeze; but his eye dwells
                    again upon the apple-tree in its spring-bloom, and the lambs upon the lea, and
                    his ear is open to the cooing of the wood-pigeon on the chesnut boughs, and the
                    sound of voices—than all other sounds more sweet—the voices that spoke kindly to
                    his childhood.
                It might be supposed that, if under any circumstances the society of a painter
                    could be always welcome, it would be amongst the varied scenes of a picturesque
                    tour. But even here the mind has pictures of its own, and he who is perpetually
                    telling you what to see, might as well force upon you at every view, the use of
                    his camera lucida, and neither allow you to gaze upon nature as you wish to
                    behold it, nor as it really is.
                Women are perhaps less addicted than men to annoy others with their pet subjects;
                    because they have less opportunity of following out any particular branch of art
                    or study, to the exclusion of others; and politics, that most prevalent and
                    unceasing absorbent of conversation, is seldom a favourite theme with them. They have, however, their houses and their
                    servants, and, what is infinitely worse—they have themselves.
                Perhaps accustomed to a little private admiration in a remote corner of the
                    world, they obtain a false estimate of their own importance, and act as if they
                    thought no subject so interesting as that which turns upon their own experience,
                    their own peculiarities, or even their own faults. It does not always follow
                    that such women admire themselves so much as the prevalence of self in their
                    conversation would at first lead us to suppose, for in expatiating upon the good
                    qualities of others, they often exclaim—and why should we doubt their
                    sincerity?—how much they wish they were like the beings they extol! They will
                    even speak disparagingly of themselves, and tell of their own faults without
                    occasion; but even while they do this with an air of humility, they seldom fail
                    to leave an impression on the minds of their hearers, that in reality they like
                    their own faults better than the virtues of others.
                It is not of much consequence what is the nature of the subject proposed to the
                    attention of this class of talkers. If the weather: “It does not agree with me,
                        I like the wind from the west.” If the politics of the country
                    in which they live: “I have not
                    given much attention to politics, nor do I think that women
                    should.” If any moral quality in the abstract is discussed: “Oh, that is just
                        my fault!” or, “If I possess any virtue, I do
                    think it is that.” If an anecdote is related: “That is like [or not like]
                        me.
                    I should [or should not] have done the same.” If the beauty of any
                    distant place is described: “I never was there, but my uncle once
                    was within ten miles of it; and had it not been for the miscarriage of a letter,
                        I should have been his companion in that journey. My uncle was
                    always fond of taking me with him. Dear good man, I was a great pet
                    of his.” If the lapse of time is the subject of conversation: “The character
                    undergoes many changes in a few years. I wonder whether, or in what way,
                        mine will be altered two years hence.” If the moon: “How many
                    people write sonnets to the moon. I never did.”
                And thus sun, moon, and stars—the whole created universe—are but links in that
                    continuous chain which vibrates with perpetual music to the egotist, connecting
                    all things in heaven and earth, however discordant or heterogeneous, by a
                    perfect and harmonious union with self.
                A very slight degree of observation would enable such individuals to perceive
                    that as soon as self is put in the place of any of the subjects in question, conversation necessarily flags, as this
                    topic, to say the least of it, cannot be familiar to both parties. On one side,
                    therefore, nothing farther remains to be said; for, however lovely the egotist
                    may be in her own person, no man, or woman either, is prepared to have her
                    substituted for the world in general, though it seems more than probable that
                    the individual herself might not object to such a transposition.
                It is difficult to decide, whether the annoyance arising from maternal eloquence,
                    should be placed before or after that arising from the prevalence of
                        self in conversation; but certainly there are many who can
                    speak feelingly, of the never-ending penance they have to endure from the
                    partial views, and warm feelings of injudicious mothers, leading them out into a
                    series of comments and commendations, as interminable as the freaks and supposed
                    eccentricities of their own little cherubs, in whose flaxen hair, and chubby
                    faces, the beholder sees nothing to distinguish them from other children. Yet
                    such are the features presented to the eye of the fond mother, that she believes
                    no infant eye looked or lisped so sweetly as her own
                        
                        .
                     And, happy is it for her that a kind Providence has implanted in her
                    bosom this conviction. We would only whisper in her ear, that there are others
                    to whom the case admits of doubt; and while
                    they have too much kind feeling to wish to undeceive her, she ought at least to
                    spare them the persecution, in which, by their silent acquiescence, they are
                    sometimes involved.
                Another class of annoying talkers, whose claims to eminence in this line I am in
                    no way disposed to contest, consists of the talkers of mere common-place—those
                    who say nothing, but what we could have said ourselves, had we deemed it worth
                    our while, and who never on any occasion, or by any chance, give utterance to a
                    new idea. Such people will talk. They seem to consider it their
                    especial duty to talk, and no symptoms of inattention in their hearers, no
                    impatient answer nor averted ear, nor even the interminable monotony of their
                    own prattle, has the power to hush them into silence. If they fail in one thing,
                    they try another; but, unfortunately for them, there is a transmuting medium in
                    their own discourse, that would turn to dust the golden opinions of the wisest
                    of men.
                We naturally ask in what consists that objectionable common-place of which we
                    complain, since the tenor of their conversation is not unlike the conversation
                    of others. It is in reality too like, too much composed of the
                    fillings-up of conversation in general. It has
                    nothing distinctive in it, and, like certain letters we have seen, would answer
                    the purpose as well, if addressed to one individual as another.
                The talker of common-place is always interested in the weather, which forms an
                    all-sufficient resource when other subjects fail. One would think, from the
                    frequency with which the individual remarks upon the rising of clouds, and the
                    falling of rain, she was perpetually on the point of setting out on a journey.
                    But she treats the seasons with the same respect, and loses no opportunity of
                    telling the farmer who is silently suffering from a wet harvest, that the autumn
                    has been unusually unpropitious. If you cough, she hopes you have not taken
                    cold, but really colds are extremely prevalent. If you bring out your work, she
                    admires both your industry and your taste, and assures you that rich colours are
                    well thrown off by a dark ground. If books are the subject of 
                        conservation
                        conversation
                    , she inquires whether you have read one that has just had a
                    twelvemonth's run of popularity. She thinks that authors sometimes go a little
                    too far, but concludes with what appears in her opinion to be a universal case,
                    that much may be said on both sides. From books she proceeds to authors;
                    expatiates upon the imagination of Shakspeare,
                    and the strength of mind possessed by Hannah More; and deliberately inquires
                    whether you do not agree with her in her sentiments respecting both. Nay, so far
                    does reality exceed imagination, that I once heard a very sweet and amiable
                    woman, whose desire to be at the same time both edifying and agreeable, somewhat
                    outran her originality of thought, exclaim, in one of those pauses incident to
                    conversation—“What an excellent book the Bible is!” Now, there is no gainsaying
                    such an assertion, and it is almost equally impossible to assent. Conversation,
                    therefore, always flags where common-place exists, because it elicits nothing,
                    touches no answering chord, nor conveys any other idea than that of bare sound,
                    to the ear of the reluctant listener.
                Another and most prolific source of annoyance is found amongst that class of
                    persons who choose to converse on subjects interesting to themselves, without
                    regard to time, or place, or general appropriateness. Whatever they take up,
                    either as their ruling topic, or as one of momentary interest, is forced upon
                    society, whether in season or out of season; and they often feel surprised and
                    mortified that their favourite subjects, in themselves not unfrequently well
                    chosen, are received by others with so cold a
                    welcome. How many worthy individuals, whose minds are richly stored, and whose
                    laudable desire is to disseminate useful knowledge, entirely defeat their own
                    ends by this want of adaptation; and many, whose conversation might be both
                    amusing and instructive, from this cause seldom meet with a patient hearer.
                Old people are peculiarly liable to this error; and it would be well to provide
                    against the garrulity and wearisomeness of advanced age, by cultivating such
                    powers of discrimination as would enable us habitually to discover what is
                    acceptable, or otherwise, in conversation.
                It occasionally happens that the mistress of a house, the kind hospitable
                    mistress, who has been at a world of pains to make every body comfortable, is
                    the very last person at the table, beside whom any of her guests would desire to
                    be placed; because they know, that being once linked in with her interminable
                    chain of prattle, they will have no chance of escape until the ladies rise to
                    withdraw; and there are few who would not prefer quietly partaking of her soups
                    and sauces, to hearing them described. Women of this description, having tired
                    out every body at home, and taught every ear to turn away, are voracious of attention when they can command it, or even
                    that appearance of it which the visiter politely puts on. Charmed with the
                    novelty of her situation in having caught a hearer, she makes the
                    most of him. Warming with her subject, and describing still more copiously, she
                    looks into his face with an expression bordering on ecstasy; and were it not
                    that she considerately spares him the task of a rejoinder, his situation would
                    be as intolerable as the common routine of table-talk could make it.
                In about the same class of agreeables with this good lady, might be placed the
                    profuse teller of tales, whose natural flow of language and fertility of ideas
                    lead her so far away from the original story, that neither the narrator nor the
                    listener would be able to answer, if suddenly inquired of—what the story was
                    about. This is a very common fault amongst female talkers, whose versatility of
                    mind and sensibility of feeling, render them peculiarly liable to be diverted
                    from any definite object. It is only wonderful that the same quickness of
                    apprehension does not teach them the impossibility of obtaining hearers on such
                    terms.
                Nor must we forget, amongst the abuses of conversation, the random talkers,—those
                    who talk from impulse only, and rush upon you with 
                        what-
                        whatever
                     ever happens to be uppermost in
                    their own minds, or most pleasing to their fancy at the time, without waiting to
                    ascertain whether the individual they address is sad or merry,—at liberty to
                    listen, or preoccupied with some weightier and more interesting subject.
                Whatever the topic of conversation, thus obtruded upon society, may be, it is
                    evident there must be a native obtuseness and vulgarity in the mind of the
                    individual who thus offends, or she would wait before she spoke, to tune her
                    voice to some degree of harmony with the feelings of those around her.
                Thus far we have noticed only the trifling abuses of conversation, and of such we
                    have, perhaps already, had more than enough; though the catalogue might easily
                    be continued through as many volumes as it occupies pages here. There are other
                    aspects more serious, under which the abuse of conversation must be
                    contemplated; and the first of these is—as it relates to carelessness or design
                    in exercising its power to give pain.
                It is difficult to conceive that a deliberate desire to give pain could exist in
                    any but the most malignant bosom; but habitual want of regard to what is painful
                    to others, may easily be the cause of inflicting upon them real misery.
                
                We have all observed—perhaps some of us felt, the sting of a taunting or an
                    ill-timed jest; and never is the suffering it occasions, or the effect it
                    produces, so much to be regretted, as when it wrings sharp tears from the gentle
                    eyes of childhood. Ye know not what ye do—might well be said to those who thus
                    burn up the blossoms of youth, and send back the fresh, warm current of feeling,
                    to stagnate at the heart.
                It would be impossible, even if such were our object, always to discover exactly
                    when we did give pain; but surely it would be a study well worthy of a
                    benevolent and enlightened mind, to ascertain the fact, with as much precision
                    as we are capable of. What, for instance, do we feel on being called upon to
                    sympathize with a young lady, who is at the same moment pointed out to us as one
                    whose father a short time before had put an end to his existence, when the
                    recollection simultaneously flashes upon us, that during the whole of the past
                    evening, we engaged the attention of the very same young lady with a detailed
                    account of the melancholy scenes we had sometimes witnessed in an insane asylum?
                    Yet, neither the pain inflicted by such conversation is greater, nor is its
                    carelessness more culpable in us, than is that of a large portion of the ill- judged, random speeches we give utterance to
                    every day.
                Nor is it in common conversation that carelessness of giving pain is felt, so
                    much as in the necessary duties of advising and finding fault. I am inclined to
                    think no very agreeable way of telling people of their faults has
                    ever yet been discovered; but certainly there is a difference, as great as that
                    which separates light from darkness, between reproof judiciously and
                    injudiciously administered. By carelessness in not regulating our tones, and
                    looks, and manner, when reproving others, we may convey either too much, or too
                    little meaning, and thus defeat our own purposes; we may even convey an
                    impression the exact opposite of that designed, and awaken feelings of
                    bitterness, revenge, and malignity, in the mind of the individual we are
                    solicitous to serve.
                Let no one therefore presume to do good, either by instruction or advice, unless
                    they have learned something of the human heart. It may appear, on the first view
                    of the subject, a difficult and arduous study, but it is one that never can be
                    begun too early or pursued too long. It is one also, in the pursuit of which
                    women never need despair, as they possess the universal key of sympathy, by
                    which all hearts may be unlocked,— some, it is
                    true, with considerable difficulty, and some but partially at last; yet, if the
                    key be applied by a delicate and skilful hand, there is little doubt but some
                    measure of success will reward the endeavour.
                We have said before, and we again repeat, it is scarcely possible to believe that
                    beings constituted as women are—kindly affectioned, and tenderly susceptible of
                    pain themselves—should be capable of wantonly and designedly inflicting pain
                    upon others. Nature revolts from the thought. We look at the smile of beauty,
                    and exclaim, “Impossible!” We pursue the benevolent visitant of the sick in her
                    errands of mercy, and say, “It cannot be.” Yet, after all, we fear it must be
                    charged upon the female sex, that they do assist occasionally in
                    the circulation of petty scandal, and that it is not always from
                        carelessness that they let slip the envenomed shaft, or speak
                    daggers where they dare not use them. Nor are the speakers alone to blame. The
                    hearers ought at least to participate, for if the habit of depreciating
                    character were discountenanced in society, it would soon cease to exist, or
                    exist only in occasional attempts, to be defeated as soon as made.
                Few women have the hardihood to confess that they delight in this kind of
                    conversation. But let the experiment be made
                    in mixed society, of course not under the influence of true religious feeling,
                    though perhaps the party might be such as would feel a little scandalized at
                    being told they were not. Let a clever and sarcastic woman take the field, not,
                    professedly, to talk against her neighbours on her own authority, but to throw
                    in the hearsay of the day, by way of spice to the general conversation; giving
                    to a public man, his private stigma—to an author, his unsaleable book—to the
                    rich man, his trading ancestry—to the poor, his unquestionable imprudence—to the
                    beau, his borrowed plumes,—and to the belle, her artificial bloom. We grant that
                    this mass of poisoning matter thrown in at once, would be likely to offend the
                    taste. It must therefore be skilfully proportioned, distributed with nice
                    distinction, and dressed up with care. Will there not then be a large proportion
                    of attentive listeners gathered round the speaker, smiling a ready assent to
                    what they had themselves not dared to utter, and nodding, as if in silent
                    recognition of some fact they had previously been made acquainted with in a more
                    private way?
                Now all this while there may be seated in another part of the room, a person
                    whose sole businless is to tell the good she knows, believes, or has heard of others. She is not a mere
                    relater of facts, but equally talented, shrewd, and discriminating with the
                    opposite party, only she is restricted to the detail of what is
                        good. I simply ask, for I wish not to pursue the subject
                    farther, Which of these talkers will be likely to obtain the largest group of
                    listeners?
                It is not, after all, by any consistent or determined attack upon character, that
                    so much mischief is done, as by interlarding otherwise agreeable conversation
                    with the sly hope of pretended charity—that certain things are not as they have
                    been reported; or the kind wish—that apparent merit was real, or might last.
                English society is so happily constituted, that women have little temptation to
                    any open vice. They must lose all respect for themselves, before they would
                    venture so far to forget their respectability. But they have temptations as
                    powerful to them, as open vice to others; and not the less so, for being
                    insidious. Who would believe that the passions of envy, hatred, and revenge
                    could lurk within the gentle bosom over which those folds of dove-coloured
                    drapery are falling? The lady has been prevailed upon to sing for the amusement
                    of the company. Blushing and hesitating, she is just about to be led to the
                    place of exhibition, when another movement, in
                    a distant part of the room, where her own advance was not observed, has placed
                    upon the seat of honour, a younger, and perhaps more lovely woman; and she lays
                    open the very piece of music which the lady in the dovelike colour had believed
                    herself the only person present who could sing. The musician charms the company.
                    The next day, our dove hears of nothing but this exquisite performance; and at
                    last she is provoked to say, “No wonder she plays so well, for I understand she
                    does nothing else. Her mamma was ill the other day with a dreadful headach, and
                    she played on, the whole afternoon, because she was going to a party in the
                    evening, and wished to keep herself in practice.”
                Now, there is little in this single speech. It is almost too trifling for remark;
                    but it may serve as a specimen of thousands, which are no determined falsehoods,
                    nay, possibly, no falsehoods at all, and yet originate in feelings as
                    diametrically opposed to christian meekness, love, and charity, as are the
                    malignant passions of envy, hatred, and revenge.
                I must again repeat, that I know the evil exists not in this individual act, but
                    in the state of the heart where it originates; yet I write thus earnestly about seeming trifles, because I believe
                    few young persons are sufficiently alive to their importance; because I know
                    that the minor morals of domestic life exercise a vital influence over the
                    well-being of society; and because the peace of whole families is sometimes
                    destroyed, by the outward observance of religious duty not being supported by an
                    equally strenuous observance of these delicate but essential points.
                In studying the art, or rather the duty of being agreeable—a duty
                    which all kindly-disposed persons will be anxious to observe—it is of importance
                    to inquire, from whence originate the errors here specified, with the long
                    catalogue that might follow in their train? So far as they are confined to
                    misapprehension of what is really agreeable, they may be said to originate in
                    the innate selfishness of our nature gaining the mastery over our judgment;
                    beyond this, they originate in the evil propensities of the human heart, which,
                    when the influence of popular feeling operates against their exhibition in any
                    gross and palpable form, infuse themselves, as it were, into the very current of
                    our existence, and poison all our secret springs of feeling.
                In order to correct the former, it is necessary that the judgment should be
                    awakened. But as habits of selfishness, long
                    indulged, involve the understanding in a cloud too dense to be altogether
                    dispelled, it is the more important that youth should be so trained as to
                    acquire habits of constant and unremitting mental reference to the feelings and
                    characters of others; so that a quickness of perception, almost like intuitive
                    knowledge, shall enable them to carry out the kindly purposes they are taught to
                    cherish, into the delicate and minute affairs of life, and thus render them the
                    means not only of giving pleasure, but of warding off pain.
                It may appear a harsh conclusion to come to, that the little errors of
                    conversation to which allusion has been made, and which are often conspicuous in
                    what are called good sort of people, really owe their existence to selfishness;
                    but it should be remembered, that to this assertion the writer is far from
                    adding, that those who act with more tact, and avoid such errors, are
                    necessarily free from the same fault. There may be a refined as well as a gross
                    selfishness, and both may be equal in their intensity and power.
                But let us go back to the cases already specified. If the artist were not
                        habitually more intent upon his own gratification, than upon
                    that of his companions, he would keep his hobby in the 
                        back-
                        background
                     ground, and allow himself time to
                    perceive that the attention of his companion was pre-occupied by subjects more
                    agreeable to him. The same may certainly be said of the more common fault of
                    making self the ruling topic of conversation; and this applies with
                    equal truth to self-depreciation, as to self-praise.
                The case is too clear and simple to need farther argument. It must be the
                        habit of acting from that first and most powerful impulse of
                    our nature, and just pouring forth the fulness of our own hearts, discharging
                    our own imagination of its load, and emptying the storehouse of our own memory,
                    without regard to fitness or preparation in the soil upon which the seed may
                    fall, or the harvest it is likely to produce, that renders conversation
                    sometimes tasteless and vapid, and sometimes inexpressibly annoying.
                The weightier responsibilities which attach to the talent of conversation, do not
                    appear to fall directly within the compass of a work expressly devoted to the
                    morals of domestic life. It is, however, a fact of great importance to
                    establish, that a woman's private conversation—for in public they
                    converse too much alike—is the surest evidence of her mind being imbued, or not
                    imbued with just and religious principles; that where it is uniformly trifling, there can be no predominating
                    desire to promote the interests of religion in the world; and where, on the
                    other hand, it is uniformly solemn and sedate, it is ill calculated to recommend
                    the course it would advocate with effect; that where it abounds in sarcasm,
                    invective, and abuse even of what is evil, it never emanates from a
                    mind in perfect unison with what is good; and that, where it is always smooth,
                    and sweet, and complacent, it must be deficient in one of the grand uses of
                    conversation—its correction and reproof: finally, that where it is carried on in
                    public or in private, without the least desire to elicit truth, to correct
                    mistakes in relation or opinion, to establish principle, to disseminate useful
                    knowledge, to warn of danger, or to perform that most difficult, but most
                    important of all duties—to correct the faults of friends—there must be something
                    wrong at the heart's core, from whence this waste of words is flowing; and sad
                    will be the final account, if, for each day of a lengthened existence upon
                    earth, this great engine of moral good and evil has been thus performing its
                    fruitless labour—for time, without an object; for eternity, without reward.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER VI.
                CONVERSATION.
                IT may appear somewhat paradoxical to commence a chapter on the uses of
                    conversation, by pointing out the uses of being silent; yet such is the
                    importance to a woman, of knowing exactly when to cease from conversation, and
                    when to withhold it altogether, that the silence of the female sex seems to have
                    become proverbially synonymous with a degree of merit almost too great to be
                    believed in as a fact. There could be no agreeable conversation carried on, if
                    there were no good listeners; and from her position in society, it is the
                    peculiar province of a woman, rather to lead others out into animated and
                    intelligent communication, than to be intent upon making communications from the
                    resources of her own mind.
                Besides this, there are times when men, especially if they are of moody
                    temperament, are more offended and annoyed by
                    being talked to, than they could be by the greatest personal affront from the
                    same quarter; and a woman of taste will readily detect the forbidding frown, the
                    close-shut lips, and the averted eye, which indicate a determination not to be
                    drawn out. She will then find opportunity for the indulgence of those secret
                    trains of thought and feeling which naturally arise in every human mind; and
                    while she plies her busy needle, and sits quietly musing by the side of her
                    husband, her father, or her brother, she may be adding fresh materials from the
                    world of thought, to that fund of conversational amusement, which she is ever
                    ready to bring forward for their use.
                By the art of conversation, therefore, as I am about to treat the
                    subject in the present chapter, I would by no means be understood to mean the
                    mere act of talking, but that cultivation and exercise of the
                    conversational powers which is most conducive to social enjoyment, and most
                    productive of beneficial influence upon our fellow-creatures.
                I have already asserted of conversation, that it is a fruitful source of human
                    happiness and misery, a powerful engine of moral good and evil; and few, I
                    should suppose, would deny the truth of this assertion. Yet, notwithstanding the 
                        preva-
                        prevalence
                     lence of this conviction, the art of
                    conversation is seldom or never cultivated as a branch of modern education. It
                    is true, the youthful mind is stimulated into early and immature expansion; and
                    the youthful memory is stored with facts; but the young student, released from
                    the trammels of school discipline, is thrown upon society in a state of total
                    ignorance of the means of imparting her knowledge so as to render it available
                    in raising the general tone of conversation; and the consequence mostly is, she
                    is so engrossed by the new life into which she is suddenly introduced, and so
                    occupied in learning what must be acquired before she can make any respectable
                    figure in what is called society, that she closes the door upon the storehouse
                    she has spent so many years of her life in filling; and finding little use for
                    the materials accumulated there, is only known in after years to have had a good
                    education, by hearing her occasionally exclaim—“I learned all about that at
                    school, but have entirely forgotten it since.”
                The English woman, whose peculiar part it is to blend all that is productive of
                    benefit in her intellectual powers, with all that is conducive to happiness in
                    her affections, would do well to give her attention as early as possible to the
                    uses of conversation; and if a system could be formed for teaching some of the simple rules of conversation as
                    an art, it would be found more advantageous to women in their social capacity,
                    than many of the branches of learning which they now spend years in
                    acquiring.
                To converse by rule has indeed a startling sound, and few, we are apt to
                    conclude, on a slight consideration of the subject, would recommend themselves
                    by such a process. The same conclusion, however, is always rushed upon by the
                    young genius who first begins to try her skill in the sister arts of painting
                    and poetry. Yet, in proceeding, she finds at every step, that there must be a
                    rule, a plan, a system, or that genius, with all her profusion of materials,
                    will be unable to form them into such a whole as will afford pleasure even to
                    the most uninitiated.
                I am aware I incur some risk of being charged both with ignorance and enthusiasm,
                    when I express my belief that the art of conversation might in some measure be
                    reduced to a system, taught in our schools, and rendered an important part of
                    female education; but I am not aware that my belief can be proved to be
                    ill-founded, until the experiment has been fairly tried.
                Let an individual who has never heard of botany, go forth into one of our English
                        meadows in the month of June, and gaze
                    upon the luxuriance of flowers, and leaves, and shooting stems, which there
                    would meet his eye. Tell him that all these distinct and separate plants have
                    been classed, and resolved into their appropriate orders, and he will exclaim,
                    “Impossible! it cannot be.”
                I must allow that the case is not, strictly speaking, a similar one. There are
                    difficulties of no trifling magnitude in reducing the faculties of the human
                    mind to any thing like order, and in laying down rules for the promotion of
                    human happiness, except on the broad scale of moral philosophy. But let the two
                    cases be fairly tried, and I am still unconvinced that the most apparently
                    impracticable would not be attended with a measure of success.
                If we consider the number of books that have been written on the subject of
                    botany, the number of lectures that have been delivered, the number of years it
                    has been taught, and the number of wise men who have made it their chief study:
                    and if in comparison with a subject upon which such vast machinery of mind has
                    been brought to operate, we do but mention that of Conversation, to which no one
                    entire volume has, perhaps, ever yet been devoted, a smile of derision will most
                    probably be the only notice our observation will excite.
                
                I would not be understood to speak lightly of a knowledge of botany, or to
                    depreciate the value of any other science. All I would maintain is this, that to
                    know every thing that can be known in art and nature, is of little value to a
                    woman, if she has not at the same time learned to communicate her knowledge in
                    such a manner as to render it agreeable and serviceable to others.
                A woman does not converse more agreeably, because she is able to define
                    botanically the difference between a rose and a buttercup, though it may be
                    desirable to be able to do so when asked; but because she has a quick insight
                    into character, has tact to select the subjects of conversation best suited to
                    her auditors, and to pursue them just so long as they excite interest, and
                    engage attention.
                With regard to the art of conversation, therefore, adaptation may be laid down as
                    the primary rule—vivacity, or rather freshness, as the second—and the
                    establishment of a fact, or the deduction of a moral, as the third.
                Why should not the leisure hours at school be filled up by the practice of these
                    rules, not only as a recreation, but as a pleasing art, in which it would be
                    much to the advantage of every woman to excel? Why should not the mistress of
                        the school devote her time occasionally to
                    the exercise of this art in the midst of her pupils, who might by her winning
                    manners be invited in their turn to practise upon her? And why should not some
                    plan be invented for encouraging the same exercise amongst the junior members of
                    the establishment? Each girl, for instance, might be appointed for a day or a
                    week, the converser with, or entertainer of, one of her fellow-students, taking
                    all in rotation; so that in their hours of leisure, it should be her business to
                    devote herself to her companion, as it is that of a host to a guest. A report
                    should then be given in at the expiration of the day or week, by the girl whose
                    part it was to be conversed with, and by encouraging her to state whether she
                    has been annoyed or interested, wearied or amused, in the presence of her
                    companion, who should in her turn have the liberty of commending or complaining
                    of her, as an attentive or inattentive listener, a good or bad responder, such
                    habits of candour and sincerity would be cultivated, as are of essential service
                    in the formation of the moral character.
                The practice of this art, as here recommended, would not necessarily be
                    restricted in its operation to any particular number. Those who attained the
                    greatest proficiency might extend their 
                        con-
                        conversational
                     versational powers to other members
                    of the establishment; and thus might be constituted little amicable societies,
                    in which all the faculties most likely to recommend the young students in their
                    future association with the world, would be called into exercise, and rendered
                    conducive to the general good.
                To the class of women chiefly referred to in this work, it is perhaps most
                    important that they should be able to converse with interest and effect. A large
                    portion of their time is spent in the useful labour of the needle, an occupation
                    which of all others requires something to vary its monotony, and render less
                    irksome its seemingly interminable duration; they are frequently employed in
                    nursing the sick, when appropriate and well-timed conversation may occasionally
                    beguile the sufferer into forgetfulness of pain; and they are also much at
                    home—at their humble, quiet homes, where excitement from extraneous causes
                    seldom comes, and where, if they are unacquainted with the art, and uninitiated
                    in the practice of conversation, their days are indeed heavy, and their evenings
                    worse than dull.
                The women of England are not only peculiarly in need of this delightful
                    relaxation to blend with their daily cares; but, until the late rapid
                        increase of superficial refinement, they
                    were adapted, by their habits and mode of life, for cultivating their
                    conversational powers in a very high degree. Their time was not occupied by the
                    artificial embellishments of polished life, they were thrown directly upon their
                    own resources for substantial comfort, and thus they acquired a foundation of
                    character which rendered their conversation sensible, original, and full of
                    point. It is greatly to be apprehended that the increased facilities for
                    imparting instruction in the present day, have not produced a proportionate
                    increase in the facilities of conversing; and it is well worthy the attention of
                    those who give their time and thoughts to the invention of improved means of
                    disseminating knowledge, to inquire what is the best method of doing this by
                    conversation, as well as by books.
                It is not, however, strictly speaking, in imparting a knowledge of general facts,
                    that the highest use of conversation consists. General facts may be recorded in
                    books, and books may be circulated to the remotest range of civilized society;
                    but there are delicate touches of feeling too evanescent to bear the impress of
                    any tangible character; there are mental and spiritual appliances, that must be
                    immediate to be available; and who has not known the time when they would
                        have given the wealth of worlds for the
                    power to unburden their full hearts before the moment of acceptance should be
                    gone, or the attentive ear be closed for ever?
                The difficulty is seldom so great in knowing what ought to be said, as in knowing
                    how to speak, what mode of expression would be most acceptable, or what turn the
                    conversation ought to take, so as best to introduce the point in question.
                Nor is the management of the voice an unimportant branch of this art. There are
                    never-to-be-forgotten tones, with which some cruel word has been accompanied,
                    that have impressed themselves upon every heart; and there are also tones of
                    kindness equally indelible, which had, perhaps, more influence at the time they
                    were heard, than the language they were employed to convey. “It was not what she
                    said, but the tone of voice in which she spoke,” is the complaint of many a
                    wounded spirit; and welcome and soothing to the listening ear, is every tone
                    that tells of hope and gladness.
                There is scarcely any source of enjoyment more immediately connected at once with
                    the heart and with the mind, than that of listening to a sensible and amiable
                    woman when she converses in a melodious and
                    well-regulated voice, when her language and pronunciation are easy and correct,
                    and when she knows how to adapt her conversation to the characters and habits of
                    those around her.
                Women, considered in their distinct and abstract nature, as isolated beings, must
                    lose more than half their worth. They are, in fact, from their own constitution,
                    and from the station they occupy in the world, strictly speaking, relative
                    creatures. If, therefore, they are endowed only with such faculties as render
                    them striking and distinguished in themselves, without the faculty of
                    instrumentality, they are only as dead letters in the volume of human life,
                    filling what would otherwise be a blank space, but doing nothing more.
                All the knowledge in the world, therefore, without an easy and felicitous method
                    of conveying it to others, would be but a profitless possession to a woman;
                    while a very inferior portion of knowledge, with this method, might render her
                    an interesting and delightful companion.
                None need despair, then, if shut out by homely avocations, by straitened means,
                    or by other unavoidable causes, from learning all the lessons
                    taught at school; for there are lessons to be
                    learned at home, around the domestic hearth, and even in the obscurity of rural
                    life, perhaps of more importance in the summing-up of human happiness.
                One of the popular uses of conversation is, to pass away time without being
                    conscious of its duration; and, unworthy as this object unquestionably is, the
                    fact that conversation is employed more than any other means for such a purpose,
                    is a convincing proof of its importance and its power.
                It is so natural to converse, that one of the severest punishments inflicted upon
                    degraded human nature, is that of being denied the liberty of speech. How
                    desirable is it, then, that what is done every hour in all classes of society,
                    and under almost every variety of circumstance, should be done for some good
                    purpose, and done in the best possible manner!
                To converse well in company, is a point of ambition with many women, and few are
                    insensible to the homage paid by the most sincere of all flatterers—a group of
                    attentive listeners. So far as this talent enables a woman of elevated mind to
                    give a higher tone to conversation in general, it is indeed a valuable gift; but
                    that of being able to converse in an agreeable and 
                        appro-
                        appropriate
                     priate manner in a sick-room, with
                    an aged parent or distressed relative, or with a friend in delicate and trying
                    circumstances, is a gift of far higher and more ennobling character.
                I have already remarked, that attendance upon the sick is one of the most
                    frequent and familiar, at the same time that it is one of the most sacred of the
                    duties devolving upon the class of women here described. It is much, to be able
                    gently and skilfully to smooth the pillow for the aching head, to administer the
                    cordial draught, to guide the feeble steps, and to watch through the sleepless
                    and protracted hours of night. But these are services rendered only to the
                    suffering body. The mind—the unextinguishable mind, may all the while be sorely
                    in need of the oil with which its waning lamp should still be trimmed. And how
                    shall this be administered? The practised nurses hired for the occasion make
                    rude and ill-advised attempts to raise the drooping spirits of the patient by
                    their vulgar pleasantry; books are too wearisome, and tell only of far-off and
                    by-gone things, when the whole interest of the sufferer is concentrated into the
                    present moment, and fixed upon himself.
                It happens more frequently and more happily amongst the middle classes in
                    England, that nurses and domestics cannot well
                    be hired, and that the chief attention required by the patient, devolves upon
                    the females of the family. How differently in this case is the sufferer dealt
                    with! There is no appearance of coming in expressly to converse with him; but
                    while a gentle and kind-hearted woman steals with noiseless tread about the
                    room, arranging every article of comfort, and giving to the whole apartment an
                    air of refreshment or repose, she is watching every indication of an opening for
                    conversation, that may beguile the lingering hours of their tediousness, and
                    lead the sufferer to forget his pain. There are moments, even in seasons of
                    sickness, when a little well-timed pleasantry is far from being unacceptable.
                    She watches for these, and turns them to account, by going just so far in her
                    playfulness, as the exhausted frame can bear without injury. When sympathy is
                    called for, as it is on such occasions almost unceasingly, she yields it freely
                    and fully, though not to any prolonged extent, as regards the case immediately
                    under her care; but continuing the same tone and manner, and with evidently the
                    same feeling, she speaks of other cases of suffering, of some friend or
                    neighbour; and the more recent and immediate the instances, the more likely they
                    will be to divert the mind of the patient from
                    himself. These of course are not brought forward with anything like a taunting
                    insinuation that the patient is not worse than others, but simply as if her own
                    mind was full of the impressions they are calculated to excite; and by these
                    means, suiting her voice and her countenance to the facts she is relating, she
                    invests them with an interest which even to the selfish invalid is
                    irresistible.
                Varying with every change in the temper and mood of the patient, her conversation
                    assumes every variety that is calculated to please, always subdued and kept
                    under by such delicate touches of feeling, such intense watchfulness, and such
                    lively sensibility, that the faintest shadow cannot pass across the aching brow,
                    nor the slightest indication of a smile across the lips, but it serves as an
                    index for her either to change the subject of her discourse, to be silent, or to
                    proceed. There is along with all this a kindness in her voice which no pen was
                    ever so eloquent as to describe; and there are moments of appealing weakness on
                    the part of the invalid, when she pours forth the full tide of her affection, in
                    language that prosperity and health would never have taught her how to use.
                Beyond these seasons of intercourse, however,
                    and of far deeper value, are those in which the burdened soul of him who feels
                    himself to be fast hastening to the confines of eternity, will sometimes seek a
                    human ear for the utterance of its anxieties and fears, and appeal to a human
                    heart for counsel in its hours of need. It may be that the individual has never
                    been accustomed to converse on these subjects—knows not how to begin—and is
                    ashamed to condemn, as he feels that he must do, the whole of his past life. Who
                    then, but the friend who has been near him in all his recent humiliations and
                    trials, who has shared them both to her very utmost, and thus obtained his
                    confidence,—who but his patient and untiring nurse, can mark and understand the
                    struggle of his feelings, and lead them forth by partial anticipations, so
                    gently that he is neither pained nor humbled by the whole confession.
                Perchance it is at the hour of midnight, when fever gives him strength, and
                    darkness hides his countenance, and he hears the sweet tones of that encouraging
                    voice, now modulated to the expression of a sympathy the most intense, and a
                    love that many waters could not quench. There is no surprise in her rejoinder,
                    when at last his lips have spoken what he could not utter by the light of day,
                    but a few simple words, more like those of
                    recognition of what she had known before, and of what it is the lot of many to
                    experience; and then, if ever, is the golden moment when the power to speak
                    without wounding, and yet to speak home, is indeed an inestimable gift.
                It is true that suitable and salutary words might be written out for some such
                    occasion; but so differently constituted are human minds, that the same words
                    would scarcely prove suitable and salutary to any two individuals,
                    out of the countless myriads who throng the peopled earth.
                Nor is the chamber of sickness the only situation in which the power of
                    conversing easily and appropriately is of inestimable value. There are other
                    cases of trial, of suffering, and of anxious solicitude, in which the mind would
                    prey upon itself, even to the injury of the bodily frame, if not diverted from
                    its object, and beguiled by pleasant conversation.
                In seasons of protracted endurance, when some anticipated crisis, of immeasurable
                    good or evil, comes not at the expected time, and every fresh disappointment
                    only adds to the feverish restlessness which no human constitution is strong
                    enough to sustain unharmed; what amusement could be devised for such a time, at
                    all comparable to interesting and judicious conversation, gently touching upon the exciting theme, and then leading off
                    by some of those innumerable channels which woman's ingenuity is so quick to
                    discover, and so apt to make use of for purposes of generosity and kindness?
                There are fireside scenes, too, of frequent and familiar occurrence, in which
                    this feminine faculty may be rendered more serviceable than all other
                    accomplishments—scenes that derive not their sadness from acute or lively
                    suffering, but are yet characterized by an inexpressible kind of melancholy,
                    arising from the moodiness of man, or the perverseness of woman, or, perhaps,
                    from a combination of domestic disagreeables attaching to every member of the
                    family, and forming over their better feelings a sort of incrustation, that must
                    be dissolved or broken through, before anything like cheerfulness can shine
                    forth.
                There is, perhaps, more real sadness arising from causes like this, than from the
                    more definite misfortunes with which we are visited; and not sadness only, but a
                    kind of resentment bordering on secret malignity, as if each member of the
                    family had poisoned the happiness of the others; and looks are directed askance,
                    books are opened, and their leaves are methodically folded over; and yet the
                    long dull evening will not wear away.
                
                How like a ministering angel then is the woman, who, looking off from her work,
                    directs her conversation to that member of the family who appears most
                    accessible, and, having gained his attention, gives the subject such a turn as
                    to draw in the attention of another, and perhaps a third, until all at last,
                    without being aware of it, have joined in conversing on the same topic, and the
                    close of the evening finds them mutually agreeable to each other. On such
                    occasions it is by no means an insignificant attainment to be able to awaken a
                    laugh, for if two or three can be brought to laugh together, the incrustation is
                    effectually broken, and they will be good friends without farther effort.
                I know it would be fruitless to lay down any minute and specific rules for
                    conversation, because none could be acted upon safely without strict reference
                    to the object upon which they might be brought to bear. Yet it may be said to be
                    a rule almost without exception, that all persons are pleased to be talked to
                    about themselves, their own affairs, and their own connexions, provided only it
                    is done with judgment, delicacy, and
                    tact. When all other topics have been tried without effect, this
                    will seldom be found to fail. Not, certainly, pursued upon what is described as
                        the American plan, of decided
                    inquisitiveness, but by remote allusions, and frequent recurrence to what has
                    already been drawn forth, making it the foundation for greater confidence, and
                    more definite communication.
                That species of universal politeness, which prompts inquiry after the relations
                    of the stranger or the guest, appears to be founded upon this principle,
                    occurring, as it so frequently does, where there can be no possible interest on
                    the part of the inquirer.
                It 
                        it
                        is
                     not, however, for the purpose of pretending to that which does not
                    really exist, that conversation can be recommended as an art, but simply for
                    facilitating the expression of feelings which could not be so well explained by
                    a more direct assurance of their nature and existence.
                When a stranger from a distance—perhaps an orphan, or one who is compelled by
                    adverse circumstances to seek the means of pecuniary support—comes to take up
                    her abode in a family, no member of which she has ever seen before, by what
                    means can the mother or the mistress of it make her feel that she is at home?
                    she may tell her in plain words that she is disposed to make her comfortable,
                    but it will touch with infinitely more force the heart of the stranger, if, with
                        a countenance of kindly interest, she
                    makes frequent and delicate mention of her friends, of her brothers or sisters,
                    or other near relations, or even of the part of the world in which she has been
                    accustomed to reside. This kind of mention, frequently bestowed with gentleness,
                    and evident regard to the facts it elicits or the confidence it draws forth,
                    will be much more effectual in gaining the desired end, than the warmest
                    expressions of affectionate solicitude for the stranger herself.
                I know that conversation, simply studied as an art, without right motives for its
                    exercise, will be found of little benefit, either to society, or to the
                    individuals who practise it. All I would maintain is, that it may be made the
                        medium of conferring happiness—the instrument of doing good—and
                    that to a greater extent than any other accomplishment in which woman can excel.
                    For want of facility in speaking appropriately, how much good feeling is lost to
                    the world, buried in the bosom where it originates, and where it becomes a
                    burden and a load, from the very consciousness of inability to make it
                    understood and felt.
                How often do we hear the bitterest lamentations to this effect—“If I could but
                    have told her what I felt—if I could but have addressed her appropriately at the
                    time—if I had but known how to make the
                    conversation lead to the point—but now the time has passed, and I may never have
                    so suitable an opportunity again.”
                Besides the cases already described, there are some darker passages in human
                    life, when women are thrown upon the actual charm of their
                    conversation, for rendering more alluring, the home that is not valued as it
                    should be. Perhaps a husband has learned before his marriage the fatal habit of
                    seeking recreation in scenes of excitement and convivial mirth. It is but
                    natural that such habits should with difficulty be broken off, and that he
                    should look with something like weariness upon the quiet and monotony of his own
                    fireside. Music cannot always please, and books to such a man are a tasteless
                    substitute for the evening party. He may possibly admire his wife, consider her
                    extremely good-looking, and, for a woman, think her very pleasant; but the
                    sobriety of matrimony palls upon his vitiated taste, and he longs to feel
                    himself a free man again amongst his old associates.
                Nothing would disgust this man so much, or drive him away so effectually, as any
                    assumption on the part of his wife, of a right to detain him. The
                    next most injudicious thing she could do, would be to exhibit symptoms of
                    grief—of real sorrow and distress at his
                    leaving her; for whatever may be said in novels on the subject of beauty in
                    tears, seems to be rendered null and void by the circumstance of marriage having
                    taken place between the parties.
                The rational woman, whose conversation on this occasion is to serve her purpose
                    more effectually than tears, knows better than to speak of what her husband
                    would probably consider a most unreasonable subject of complaint. She tries to
                    recollect some incident, some trait of character, or some anecdote of what has
                    lately occurred within her knowledge, and relates it in her most lively and
                    piquant manner. If conscious of beauty, she tries a little raillery, and plays
                    gently upon some of her husband's not unpleasing peculiarities, looking all the
                    while as disengaged and unsuspecting as she can. If his attention becomes fixed,
                    she gives her conversation a more serious turn, and plunges at once into some
                    theme of deep and absorbing interest. If her companion grows restless, she
                    changes the subject, and again recollects something laughable to relate to him.
                    Yet all the while her own poor heart is aching with the feverish anxiety that
                    vacillates between the extremes of hope and fear. She gains courage, however, as
                    time steals on, for her husband is by her side, and with her increasing courage her spirits become exhilarated,
                    and she is indeed the happy woman she has hitherto but appeared; for at last her
                    husband looks at his watch, is astonished to find it is too late to join his
                    friends; and while the evening closes in, he wonders whether any other man has a
                    wife so delightful and entertaining as his own.
                Again, there is a class of beings, unfortunately for themselves, not always
                    welcomed into good society, and yet severely blamed for seeking bad—a
                    nondescript species of humanity, not properly called boys, nor worthily called
                    men, who are, above all other creatures, the most difficult to converse with.
                    They seem, in fact, to be discarded from society, for old women are afraid of
                    them, while young ones pronounce them bores; and old men seem uniformly inclined
                    to put them down, while young ones do little to raise them up. Yet in these very
                    individuals, during this season of incipient manhood, the character of the
                    future statesman or citizen, father or friend, is undergoing the process of
                    formation; and all the while the step that owes half its fleetness to the hope
                    of leaving care and sorrow in the distance, bounds on with triumphant
                    recklessness, because there is no friendly voice to arrest its progress, or
                    direct its course.
                
                Who takes the trouble to converse with a youth of this description, for we
                    confess it is a trouble, except where personal affection prompts the act? Is
                    there not one who will kindly endeavour to make the young heart confess itself,
                    for a heart there must be under all this rude and turbulent exterior? Yes, there
                    is one. The reckless boy, after receiving a thousand insults, after having been
                    elbowed off by one, pushed away by a second, and made game of by a third, comes
                    home to his mother, and finds that his own fireside is indeed the happiest place
                    on earth to him. His mother does what no one else will condescend to do—she
                    converses with him—she treats him like a rational being. Interested in his
                    amusements because they are his, she talks to him about his sports, his
                    companions, and all the minutiæ that fill up his daily life, anticipating all
                    the while such feelings and sentiments as she believes him to possess, or at
                    least gives him credit for, and thus leads him to confess. While the boy,
                    feeling within himself the dawning of a brighter epoch in his existence, the
                    stirring of half-formed thoughts about to be matured, is happy and grateful to
                    be thus encouraged to speak freely, and to be his better self.
                Of evenings spent in this manner, who shall estimate the value, remembered as
                    they often are in after life, and blended as
                    they safely may be with that portion of self-respect which is always found to
                    support the persevering, the upright, and the truly great?
                The cases already mentioned, serve but as specimens of the mass of evidence that
                    might be brought forward in favour of the utility of conversation judiciously
                    carried on; what then must be said of the responsibility of those who possess
                    this talent in its highest perfection, and either neglect to use it for any
                    laudable purpose, or devote it to a bad one?
                It seems to be too much the opinion of people in general, that agreeable
                    conversation, like many other agreeable things, is only to be used for the
                    benefit of guests and strangers. The truly English, domestic, and fireside
                    companion has a higher estimate of this talent. She knows little of what is
                    called the world, and would be too diffident to attempt to make a figure in it
                    if she did. Her world is her home, and here, on days of laborious duty, as well
                    as on days of pleasure, when the family circle are met around their homely
                    hearth, as well as when the distinguished guest is with them, it is her chief
                    delight to beguile, what might otherwise be to them, heavy hours, with cheerful
                    conversation. It is to her parents, her husband, her brothers, and her sisters, as well as to her intimate friends, that she
                    is the entertaining and instructive companion, adapting herself to their
                    different moods and temperaments, leading forth their thoughts beyond
                    themselves, and raising them above the sordid and vexatious cares of every-day
                    existence, until her voice becomes the music of her home, and her presence the
                    charm that unites the different members of her household in a sacred bond of
                    fellowship and peace.
                The power of conversing well, presents a great temptation to a vain woman to use
                    it for the gratification of her self-complacency. As there are few of the minor
                    circumstances of life more mortifying than to find, that when you speak, no one
                    listens to the end of your story or remark; so, there is no kind of flattery
                    more irresistible than to find that your conversation gathers hearers, more and
                    more; and women are but too quick to detect the interest they excite depicted
                    upon every face.
                There is, however, a wide difference between the moral state of the woman who
                    converses well in company, solely for the sake of obtaining admiration, and of
                    her who converses well for the sake of making the time pass pleasantly or
                    profitably to others. The former will be sure to be found amongst the gentlemen, especially if she be pleasing
                    in her appearance, and she will have wholly overlooked the neglected or
                    insignificant individuals of her own sex, who may happen to have been present.
                    The other will have sought out the silent stranger—the poor relation—the plain
                    woman—and all the most insignificant or unnoticed persons in the party.
                    Especially she will have devoted herself to her own sex, and afforded to the
                    company that rare, but noble illustration of female benevolence—a fascinating
                    woman in company choosing to make herself agreeable to women.
                If any action arising from vanity could be either commendable or great, I am
                    disposed to think it would be so, for a woman to show that she could afford to
                    tear herself away from the attentions of men, and devote her powers of pleasing
                    to her own sex. The woman we have described, however, has feelings of a higher
                    order. Her object is to use every gift she possesses for the happiness or the
                    benefit of her fellow-creatures, and her benevolence prompts her to seek out
                    those who are most in need of kindness and consideration. Forgetful of herself,
                    she regards her ability to please as one of the talents committed to her trust,
                    for the employment of which she must render an
                    account at that awful tribunal where no selfish plea will be admitted. And thus
                    she cultivates the art of conversation for the sake of increasing her
                    usefulness, of consoling the distressed, of instructing the ignorant, and of
                    beguiling of half their heaviness the necessary cares of life.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER VII.
                DOMESTIC HABITS,—CONSIDERATION AND KINDNESS.
                ON entering upon the subject of the domestic habits of the women of
                    England, I feel the necessity of bearing in mind, that all individuals in the
                    middle class of society, and even all who are connected with trade, are by no
                    means under the same obligation to regard their own personal exertions as a
                    duty. So far from this, there are unquestionably many in this class, who would
                    be entirely out of their province, were they to engage in the manual occupations
                    of their families and households. The possession of wealth has placed them, in
                    these respects, on the same footing with the nobility, and they have, without
                    doubt, an equal right to enjoy the luxuries which wealth can procure. I am,
                    however, no less convinced that the absence of all necessity for personal 
                        exer-
                        exertion
                     tion is a disadvantage to them, and
                    that their happiness would be increased, if their situations in life were such
                    as to present more imperative claims upon their individual services.
                The virtue of considerateness refers strictly to the characters and circumstances
                    of those around us. From the mistress of half a dozen servants, therefore, the
                    same kind of consideration can never be required, as from the
                    mistress of one; nor can the lady of a mansion, even though her husband should
                    be engaged in trade, feel herself called to the same duties as the farmer's
                    wife.
                The considerateness I shall attempt to define is one of the highest
                    recommendations the female character can possess; because it combines an
                    habitual examination of our own situation and responsibilities, with a quick
                    discernment of the character and feelings of those around us, and a benevolent
                    desire to afford them as much pleasure, and spare them as much pain, as we can.
                    A considerate woman, therefore, whether surrounded by all appliances and means
                    of personal enjoyment, or depending upon the use of her own hands for the daily
                    comforts of life, will look around her, and consider what is due to those whom
                    Providence has placed within the sphere of her influence.
                
                The man who voluntarily undertakes a difficult and responsible business, first
                    inquires how it is to be conducted so as best to ensure success;
                    so, the serious and thoughtful Woman, on entering upon the duties of domestic
                    life, ascertains, by reflection and observation, in what manner they may be
                    performed so as to render them most conducive to the great end she has in
                    view—the promotion of the happiness of others; and as the man engaged in
                    business does not run hither and thither, simply to make a show of alacrity,
                    neither does the woman engaged in a higher and more important work, allow
                    herself to be satisfied with her own willingness to do her duty, without a
                    diligent and persevering investigation of what are the most effectual means by
                    which it can be done.
                Women are almost universally admonished of their duties in general
                    terms, and hence they labour under great disadvantages. They are told to be
                    virtuous; and in order to be so, they are advised to be kind and modest, orderly
                    and discreet. But few teachers, and fewer writers, condescend to take up the
                    minutiæ of everyday existence, so as to explain in what distinct and individual
                    actions such kindness, modesty, order, and discretion consist. Indeed, the cases
                        themselves, upon which these principles of
                    right conduct are generally brought to bear, are so minute, and so apparently
                    insignificant, that the writer who takes up this subject must not only be
                    content to sacrifice all the dignity of authorship, but must submit occasionally
                    to a smile of contempt for having filled a book with trifles.
                In order, however, to ascertain the real importance of any point of merit, we
                    should take into consideration its direct opposite. We never know the value of
                    true kindness, so much as when contrasted with unkindness; and lest any one
                    should think lightly of the virtue of consideration as a moral faculty, let us
                    turn our attention to the character and habits of a woman who is without it.
                    Such are not difficult to find, and we find them often in the lovely, and the
                    seemingly amiable creatures of impulse, who rush about, with the impetus of the
                    moment operating as their plea, uncontrollable affection their excuse, and
                    sefishness, unknown to them, the moving spring at the bottom of their hearts.
                    These individuals believe themselves to be so entirely governed by amiable
                    feelings, that they not unfrequently boast of being kind—nay, too kind-hearted:
                    but upon whom does their kindness tell, except upon themselves? It is true, they
                    feel the impulse to be kind, and this impulse
                    they gratify by allowing it to operate in any way that circumstances, or their
                    own caprice, may point out. Yet, after all, how often is their kindness, for
                    want of consideration, rendered wholly unavailable towards the promotion of any
                    laudable or useful purpose.
                Nor is this all. Want of consideration is often the occasion of absolute pain;
                    and those, who because they deem it a recommendation to act from the impulse of
                    the moment, will not take the trouble to reflect, are always, in a greater or
                    less degree, liable to inflict misery upon others.
                I remember walking home on a beautiful summer's evening, with one of these lovely
                    and impetuous creatures, who was then just entering upon all the rights and
                    privileges of a belle, and, to my great surprise, observing that she trod
                    indiscriminately upon all the creeping things which the damp and the dew had
                    tempted forth into our path. I remonstrated with her, of course; but she turned
                    to me with her own bewitching air of naiveté, and said—“And pray, why may I
                        not tread upon the snails?” Farther remonstrance was
                    unnecessary, for the mind which had attained maturity without feeling enough to
                    prevent this reckless and disgusting waste of life, must of necessity have been
                    impervious to reason.
                
                And thus it is with considerateness in general. If the season of youth glides
                    over before habits of consideration are acquired, they will come tardily, and
                    with little grace, in after life. Want of consideration for those of our
                    fellow-creatures whose love is of importance to us, is not, however, a subject
                    upon which we have so much cause for complaint. It is towards those with whom we
                    are connected by social ties, without affection—and under this head, the
                    situation of our servants and domestics claims the greatest care.
                Servants are generally looked upon, by thoughtless young ladies, as a sort of
                    household machinery; and when that machinery is of sufficient extent to operate
                    upon every branch of the establishment, there can be no reason why it should not
                    be brought into exercise, and kept in motion to any extent that may not be
                    injurious. This machinery, however, is composed of individuals, possessing
                    hearts as susceptible of certain kinds of feeling, as those of the more
                    privileged beings, to whose comfort and convenience it is their daily business
                    to minister. They know and feel that their lot in this world is comparatively
                    hard; and if they are happily free from all presumptuous questionings of the
                    wisdom and justice of Providence in placing them where they are, they are alive to the conviction that the burden of
                    each day is sufficient, and often more than sufficient, for their strength.
                In speaking of the obligation we are under to our domestics for their faithful
                    services, it is no uncommon thing to be answered by this unmeaning remark; “They
                    are well paid for what they do,” as if the bare fact of receiving food and
                    clothing for their daily labour, placed them on the same footing with regard to
                    comfort, as those who receive their food and clothing for doing nothing.
                There is also another point of view in which this class of our fellow-creatures
                    is very unfairly judged. Servants are required to have no faults. It is by no
                    means uncommon to find the mistress of a family, who has enjoyed all the
                    advantages of moral and even religious education, allowing herself to exhibit
                    the most unqualified excess of indignation at the petty faults of a servant, who
                    has never enjoyed either; and to hear her speak as if she was injured, imposed
                    upon, insulted before her family, because the servant, who was engaged to work
                    for her, had been betrayed into impertinence by a system of reproof as much at
                    variance with christian meekness, as the retort it was so well calculated to
                    provoke.
                
                Women of such habits, would perhaps be a little surprised, if told, that when a
                    lady descends from her own proper station, to speak in an irritating or
                    injurious manner to a servant, she is herself guilty of impertinence, and that
                    no domestic of honest and upright spirit will feel that such treatment ought to
                    be submitted to.
                On the other hand, there is a degree of kindness blended with dignity, which
                    servants, who are not absolutely depraved, are able to appreciate; and the
                    slight effort required to obtain their confidence, is almost invariably repaid
                    by a double share of affectionate and faithful service.
                The situation of living unloved by their domestics is one which I should hope
                    there are few women capable of enduring with indifference. The cold attentions
                    rendered without affection, and curtailed by every allowable means, the short
                    unqualified reply to every question, the averted look, the privilege stolen
                    rather than solicited, the secret murmur that is able to make itself understood
                    without the use of words—all these are parts of a system of behaviour that
                    chills the very soul, and forces upon the mind the unwelcome conviction, that a
                    stranger who partakes not in our common lot, is within our domestic circle: or
                    that an alien who enters not into the sphere of our home-associations, attends upon our social board; nay, so forcible is the
                    impression, as almost to extend to a feeling, that an enemy is amongst the
                    members of our own household.
                How different is the impression produced by a manner calculated both to win their
                    confidence and inspire their respect. The kind welcome after absence, the
                    watchful eye, the anticipation of every wish, the thousand little attentions and
                    acts of service beyond what are noted in the bond—who can resist the influence
                    of these upon the heart, and not desire to pay them back—not certainly in their
                    own kind and measure, but in the only way they can be returned consistently with
                    the relative duties of both parties—in kindness and consideration?
                It is not, however, in seasons of health and prosperity, that this bond between
                    the different members of a family can be felt in its full force. There is no
                    woman so happily circumstanced, but that she finds some link broken in the chain
                    which binds her to this world—some shadow cast upon her earthly pictures. The
                    best beloved are not always those who love the best; and expectation will exceed
                    reality, even in the most favoured lot. There are hours of sadness that will
                    steal in, even upon the sunny prime of life;
                    and they are not felt the less, because it is sometimes impossible to
                    communicate the reason for such sadness to those who are themselves the cause.
                    In such cases, and while the heart is in some degree estranged from natural and
                    familiar fellowship, we are thrown more especially upon the kindness and
                    affection of our domestics, for the consolation we feel it impossible to live
                    without. They may be, and they ought to be, wholly unacquainted with the cause
                    of our disquietude; but a faithfully attached servant, without presuming beyond
                    her proper sphere, is quick to discern the tearful eye, the gloomy brow, the
                    countenance depressed; and it is at such times that their kindness, solicitude,
                    and delicate attentions, might often put to shame the higher pretensions of
                    superior refinement.
                In cases of illness or death, it is perhaps more especially their merit to prove,
                    by their indefatigable and unrequited assiduities, how much they make the
                    interest of the family their own, and how great is their anxiety to remove all
                    lighter causes of annoyance from interference with the great affliction in which
                    those around them are involved. There is scarcely a more pitiable object in
                    creation, than a helpless invalid left entirely to the care of domestics, whose
                    affection never has been sought or won. But,
                    on the other hand, the readiness with which they will sometimes sacrifice their
                    needful rest, and that, night after night, to watch the feverish slumbers of a
                    fretful invalid, is one of those redeeming features in the aspect of human
                    nature, which it is impossible to regard without feelings of admiration and
                    gratitude.
                The question necessarily follows,—how are our domestics to be won over to this
                    confidence and affection? It comes not by nature, for no tie, except what
                    necessarily implies authority and subjection, exists between us. It cannot come
                    by mutual acts of service, because the relation between us is of such a nature
                    as to place the services almost entirely on their side, the benefits derived
                    from such services, on ours. It comes, then, by instances of consideration,
                    showing that we have their interests at heart in the same degree that we expect
                    them to have ours. We cannot actually do much for them, because it
                    would be out of our province, and a means of removing them out of theirs; but we
                    can think and feel for them, and thus lighten or add weight to their burdens, by
                    the manner in which our most trifling and familiar actions are performed.
                In a foregoing chapter, I have ventured a few hints on the subject of manners,
                    chiefly as regards their influence amongst
                    those who meet us upon equal terms in the social affairs of life. The influence
                    of the manner we choose to adopt in our intercourse with servants, is of such
                    importance as to deserve further notice than the nature of this work will
                    allow.
                There is a phenomenon sometimes witnessed at the head of a well-appointed table,
                    from which many besides myself, have no doubt started with astonishment and
                    disgust. A well-dressed, well-educated lady, attired in the most becoming and
                    fashionable costume, is engaged in conversing with her friends, pressing them to
                    partake of her well-flavoured viands, and looking and speaking with the blandest
                    smiles; when suddenly one of the servants is beckoned towards her, and with an
                    instantaneous expression of countenance, in which is concealed the passion and
                    the imperiousness of a whole lifetime, he is admonished of his duty in sharp
                    whispers that seem to hiss like lightning in his ears. The lady then turns round
                    to her guests, is again arrayed in smiles, and prepared again to talk sweetly of
                    the sympathies and amiabilities of our common nature.
                There is, it must be confessed, a most objectionable manner, which blends
                        familiarity with confidence; and this ought to be guarded
                    against as much in reproof, as in
                    commendation, for it cannot be expected that a mistress who reproves her servant
                    with coarseness and vulgarity, will be treated with much delicacy in return. The
                    consideration I would recommend, so far from inviting familiarity, is
                    necessarily connected with true dignity, because it implies, in the most
                    undeviating manner, a strict regard to the relative position of both parties.
                    Let us see then in what it consists, or rather let us place it in a stronger
                    light by pointing out instances in which the absence of it is most generally
                    felt.
                There are many young ladies, and some old ones, with whom the patronage of pets
                    appears to be an essential part of happiness; and these pets, as various as the
                    tastes they gratify, are all alike in one particular—they are all troublesome.
                    If a lady engages her servants with an understanding that they are to wait upon
                    her domestic animals, no one can accuse her of injustice. But if, with barely a
                    sufficient number of domestics to perform the necessary labour of her household,
                    she establishes a menagerie, and expects the hard-working servants to undertake
                    the additional duty of waiting upon her pets—perhaps the most repulsive
                    creatures in existence, to them—such additional service ought at least to be
                    solicited as a favour; and she will have no
                    right to feel indignant, should the favour be sometimes granted in a manner
                    neither gracious nor conciliating.
                When a servant who has been all day labouring hard to give an aspect of comfort
                    and cleanliness to the particular department committed to her care, sees the
                    young ladies of the family come home from their daily walk, and, never dreaming
                    of her, or her hard labour, trample over the hall and stairs without stopping to
                    rid themselves of that incumbrance of clay, which a fanciful writer has classed
                    amongst the “miseries of human life;” is it to be expected that the servant who
                    sees this, should be so far uninfluenced by the passions of humanity, as not to
                    feel the stirrings of rage and resentment in her bosom? And when this particular
                    act is repeated every day, and followed up by others of the same description,
                    the frequently recurring sensations of rage and resentment, so naturally
                    excited, will strengthen into those of habitual dislike, and produce that cold
                    service, and grudging kindness, which have already been described.
                There are thousands of little acts of this description, such as ordering the
                    tired servants to rise at an unseasonable hour to prepare an early breakfast,
                    and then not being ready yourself before the
                    usual time—being habitually too late for dinner, without any sufficient reason,
                    and having a second dinner served up—ringing the bell for the servant to leave
                    her washing, cooking, or cleaning, and come up to you, to receive orders to
                    fetch your thimble or scissors from the highest apartment in the house—all which
                    need no comment; and surely those servants must be more than human, who can
                    experience the effects of such a system of behaviour, carried on for days,
                    months, and years, and not feel, and feel bitterly, that they are themselves
                    regarded as mere machines, while their comfort and convenience is as much left
                    out of calculation, as if they were nothing more.
                It is an easy thing, on entering a family, to ascertain whether the female
                    members of it are, or are not considerate. Where they are not, there exists, as
                    a necessary consequence, a constant series of murmurings, pleadings,
                    remonstrances, and attempted justifications, which sadly mar the happiness of
                    the household. On the other hand, where the female members of a family are
                    considerate, there is a secret spring of sympathy linking all hearts together,
                    as if they were moved by a simultaneous impulse of kindness on one side, and
                    gratitude on the other. Few words have need to be spoken, few professions to be
                        made, for each is hourly discovering that
                    they have been the subject of affectionate solicitude, and they are consequently
                    on the watch for every opportunity of making an adequate return. If the brother
                    comes home sad or weary, the sister to whom he has pledged himself to some
                    exertion, detects the languor of his eye, and refrains from pressing upon him a
                    fulfilment of his promise; if the sister is labouring under depression, the
                    brother feels himself especially called upon to stand forward as her friend; and
                    if one of the family be suffering even slightly from indisposition, there are
                    watchful eyes around, and the excursion is cheerfully given up by one, the party
                    by another, and a quiet social evening is unanimously agreed upon to be spent at
                    home, and agreed upon in such a way as that the invalid shall never suspect it
                    has been done at the cost of any pleasure.
                There is no proof of affection more kindly prompted and more gratefully received,
                    than that of easily detecting uncomplained-of indisposition. We might almost
                    single out this faculty as the surest test of love—for who observes the
                    incipient wrinkle on a stranger's brow, or marks the gradually-increasing
                    paleness of an unloved cheek? Or what can convince us more effectually that we
                    are in a world of strangers, to whom our interests are as nothing, than to be pressed on every hand to
                    do, what our bodily strength is unequal to.
                There are points of consideration in which we often practise great
                    self-deception. “Don't you think it would do you good, my dear?” asks the young
                    lady of her sickly sister, when the day of promised pleasure is at hand, and she
                    begins to fear her sister's cough will render it impossible to go from home.
                    “The pain in your foot, my love, is considerably better,” says the wife to her
                    husband, when she thinks the fashionables are about leaving Bath. “You are
                    looking extremely well,” says the niece to her aged uncle, who has promised to
                    take her to Paris; “I think I never saw you look so well.” But all this is not
                    love. It does not feel like love to the parties addressed; for nature is true to
                    herself, and she will betray the secrets of art. How different are the workings
                    of that deep and earnest affection that sees with one glance how unreasonable it
                    would be to drag forth the invalid to any participation in the enjoyments of
                    health; and how welcome is the gentle whisper which assures us that one watchful
                    eye perceives our suffering, one sympathizing ear participates in our weakness
                    and distress: for it is distress to be compelled to complain that
                    we are unequal to do, what the happiness of others depends upon our doing; and never is the voice of friendship
                    employed in a more kindly office, than when pleading the cause of our
                    infirmity.
                It is chiefly with regard to the two sister virtues of consideration and
                    kindness, that I look upon the women of England as so highly privileged; because
                    the nature of their social and domestic circumstances is such, as to afford them
                    constantly-recurring opportunities of proving that they think often and kindly
                    of others, without any departure from the wonted routine of their conduct, that
                    might wear the character of a pointed application of such feelings.
                It has a startling, and by no means agreeable effect upon the mind, when a woman
                    who is not habitually accustomed to any sort of practical kindness, so far
                    deviates from her usual line of conduct, as to perform any personal service
                    solely for ourselves. We feel that she has been troubled, and suspect that she
                    has been annoyed. But women accustomed to practical duties are able to turn the
                    whole tide of their affectionate solicitude into channels so wholesome and
                    salutary, that our pride is not wounded by the obligation under which we are
                    placed, nor is our sense of gratitude impaired by the pain of being singled out
                    as the object of unwonted and elaborate attentions.
                
                In order to illustrate the subject by a familiar instance, let us imagine one of
                    those events experienced by all who lived to years of maturity, and experienced
                    in such a way as to have thrown them in a peculiar manner, upon the domestic
                    comforts of the circle to which they were introduced—the arrival, after long
                    travel, on a visit to an early and highly-valued friend.
                It is not necessary to this picture, that park gates should be thrown open, and
                    footmen stationed on the steps of the hall; it will better serve our purpose,
                    that the mistress of the house should herself be the first to meet her guest,
                    with that genuine welcome in her looks and manner, that leaves nothing to be
                    expressed by words. We will suppose that with her own hand she displaces all the
                    encumbrance of extra wrappings, rendered necessary by the winter's journey, and
                    having quietly dismissed the expectant chaise-driver or porter, she leads her
                    friend into the neatly furnished parlour, where another and a more familiar
                    welcome seems at once to throw open her heart and her house for her reception. A
                    fire that has been designedly built up, is then most energetically stirred,
                    until a bright and genial blaze diffuses its light round the room, and the
                        guest begins to glow with the two-fold
                    warmth of a welcome and a winter's fire.
                In the mean time, the servant, well taught in the mysteries of hospitality,
                    conveys the luggage upstairs unseen, and the guest is led to the chamber
                    appointed for her nightly rest. There most especially, is both seen and felt,
                    the kind feeling that has taken into account her peculiar tastes, and
                    anticipated all her well-remembered wishes. The east or the west apartment has
                    been chosen, according to the preference she has been known to express in days
                    long since gone by, when she and her friend were girls together; and thus the
                    chain of fond and cherished recollections is made to appear again unbroken after
                    the lapse of years, and a conviction is silently impressed upon the mind of the
                    traveller—perhaps the most welcome of all earthly sources of assurance—that we
                    have been remembered, not merely in the abstract—but that through long, long
                    years of change and separation, time has not obliterated from the mind of a dear
                    friend, the slightest trace of our individuality.
                Perhaps none can tell until they have arrived at middle age, what is in reality
                    the essential sweetness of this conviction. In our association with the world,
                    we may have obtained for our industry, our
                    usefulness, or it may be for our talents, a measure of approval, at least
                    commensurate with our deserts; but give back to the worn and the weary in this
                    world's warfare, the friends of their early youth—the friends who loved them,
                    faults and all—the friends who could note down their very follies without
                    contempt, and who attached a degree of interest and importance to the trifling
                    peculiarities of their temper and feelings, which rendered them indelible
                    memorials of an attachment such as never can be formed in after life.
                To return from this digression—The English woman, in the unsophisticated beauty
                    of her character, has a power far surpassing what can be attained by the most
                    scrupulous observance of the rules of art, of thus investing her familiar and
                    social actions with a charm that goes directly to the heart.
                We have traced the traveller to the chamber of her rest, and it is not in the
                    choice of this room alone, but in its furniture and general aspect, that she
                    reads the cheering truth of a superintending care having been exercised over all
                    it contains, in strict reference to herself, not merely as an honoured guest,
                    but as a lover of this or that small article of comfort or convenience, which in
                        the world of comparative strangers amongst
                    whom she has been living, she has seldom thought it worth her while to stipulate
                    for, and still less frequently has had referred to her choice.
                Now, it is evident that the mistress of the house herself must have been here.
                    With her own hand she must have placed upon the table the favourite
                    toilet-cushion, worked by a friend who was alike dear to herself and her guest.
                    With her own hand she must have selected the snow-white linen, and laid out, not
                    in conspicuous obtrusiveness, a few volumes calculated for the hours of silent
                    meditation, when her friend shall be alone.
                It is impossible that the services of the most faithful domestic should be able
                    to convey half the heartfelt meaning indicated by these few familiar acts, so
                    richly worth their cost. It is not from the circumstance of having all our wants
                    supplied, that the most lively satisfaction is derived; it is from the cheering
                    fact that we ourselves, in our individual capacity, have been the object of so
                    much faithful recollection, and untiring love.
                Instead therefore of regarding it as a subject for murmuring and complaint, that
                    her means of personal indulgence do not supply her with a greater number of
                    domestics, the true English woman ought rather to esteem it a privilege that
                        her station in life is such, as to place
                    her in the way of imparting this rational and refined enjoy ment.
                We cannot imagine the first day of hospitable welcome complete without our
                    visiter being introduced to that concatenation of comforts—an early tea. On
                    descending from her chamber, then, she finds all things in readiness for this
                    grateful and refreshing meal. Her attention is not distracted by apologies for
                    what is not there—but what, on such occasions, frequently might have been, at
                    the cost of half the effort required for an elaborate excuse. As if the fairy
                    order had been at work, the table is spread with all things most agreeable after
                    weary travel; and the guest, instead of being pressed to eat with such assiduity
                    that she begins to think her visit has no other object, is only interrupted by
                    kind inquiries relating to home associations, and is beguiled into a
                    prolongation of her meal, by being drawn out into a detail of the events of her
                    journey.
                As the evening passes on, their conversation becomes more intimate, and while it
                    deepens in interest, that full expansion of the soul takes place, under which,
                    whatever English women may be in the superficial intercourse of polished life, I
                    have no scruple in saying, that as fireside companions, they are the most
                    delightful upon earth. There are such vivid
                    imaginings, such touches of native humour, such deep well-springs of feeling,
                    beyond their placid exterior, that when they dare to come forth,
                    and throw themselves upon the charity or affection of their hearers, one is
                    beguiled into a fascination the more intense, because it combines originality of
                    thought with gentle manners, and in a peculiar and forcible way invests the
                    cherished recollections of the past, with the fresh warm colouring of the
                    present hour.
                It is not amidst congregated masses of society, that the true English woman can
                    exhibit her native powers of conversation. It is when two are met together, with
                    perhaps a husband or a brother for a third, and the midnight hour steals on, and
                    yet they take no note of time, for they are opening out their separate store of
                    treasures from the deep of memory, sharing them with each other, and blending
                    all with such bright anticipations of the future, as none but a woman's
                    imagination can enjoy, with faith in their reality.
                Or, perhaps, they are consulting upon some difficult point of duty, or
                    sympathizing with each other in affliction; and then, where shall we look but to
                    the English woman for the patient listener, the faithful counsellor, the staunch
                    supporter of each virtuous purpose, the keen discerner in points of doubtful merit, and the untiring comforter in
                    every hour of need.
                It would be too tedious, and might to some appear too trifling, were I to trace
                    out the conduct of the being here described, through more of the familiar scenes
                    presented by domestic life. It may also be thought by some who know little of
                    women in this capacity, that I am drawing merely from imagination: others will
                    know that my colouring is true—that human life, in some of its obscurest
                    passages, has secrets of moral excellence in the female character, presenting
                    objects as lovely as ever were revealed to the poet's fancy. Alas! for those
                    whose memory alone supplies them with the materials for this picture—who now can
                    only feel that “such things were!”
                The charge of trifling is one I should be sorry to incur in writing on a subject
                    so serious as the domestic morals of women; yet how to enter into a detail
                    sufficiently minute without, I confess I do not clearly see. I must, therefore,
                    again pause, and ask the reader, in my own defence, of what the ordinary life of
                    a woman of the middle class of society is composed but a mass of trifles, out of
                    which arises the happiness or the misery of a numerous and important portion of
                    the human race? I would also ask, What is a woman who despises trifles? She may possibly enjoy, with
                    undisputed dignity, a niche in the temple of fame, but she ought never to
                    descend from her marble pedestal, to mingle with the social circle around the
                    living blaze of the domestic hearth. Those quiet, unobtrusive virtues, which are
                    ever the most lovely in the female character, must necessarily be the most
                    difficult to define. They are so much more felt than seen—so much better
                    understood than described—that to give them a name would be impossible, and even
                    to portray them in an ideal picture might not perhaps convey to the mind of the
                    beholder, any adequate idea of their importance. But, as in painting a finished
                    picture, the skill of the artist is not only required in the general outline,
                    but is equally requisite in the filling-up, so the perfection of
                    the female character, is not sufficiently indicated by saying she is possessed
                    of every virtue, unless we point out the individual instances upon which those
                    virtues are brought to bear; and the more minute and delicate their aspect, if
                    they are but frequently presented to our notice, the stronger is our conviction
                    that virtuous principle is the ground-work of the whole.
                With regard to the particular instance already described, the case may perhaps be
                    more clearly illustrated by adding a picture of an opposite description, in order to ascertain in what particular
                    points the two cases differ.
                For this purpose, we will imagine a woman distinguished by no extreme of
                    character, receiving her guest under precisely the same circumstances as the one
                    already described. In this case, the visiter is permitted to see that her
                    hostess has reluctantly laid down her book at the latest possible period of time
                    which politeness would allow; or, after her guest has remained twenty minutes in
                    a vacant, and by no means inviting parlour, she comes toiling up from the
                    kitchen, with a countenance that makes it dreadful to be adding to her daily
                    fatigues by placing one's self at her table; and she answers the usual inquiries
                    of her friend, as to her state of health, with a minute detail of the various
                    phenomena of a headach with which she has that morning been attacked. The
                        one domestic is then called up—and wo betide that family, whose
                    daily services, unpractised by its individual members towards each
                        other, all emanate from one domestic.
                When one domestic then is ordered, in the hearing of the guest, to take all the
                    luggage up stairs, to bring hot water, towels, soap—to turn the carpets—run for
                    the best looking-glass—and see that tea is ready by the time the friend comes
                    down. The party then ascend, accompanied by
                    the panting servant, into a room, upon which no kind care has been bestowed. It
                    may possibly be neat—so neat that the guest supposes it never has been, and is
                    not yet intended to be, used. Yes, every thing is in its place; but a general
                    blank pervades the whole, and it is not the least of the disappointments
                    experienced by our guest, that she finds no water to refresh her aching temples.
                    The mistress of the house is angry at this neglect, and rings the bell. The
                    servant ascends from the kitchen to the highest room, to learn that she must go
                    down again, and return, before half the catalogue of her faults has been
                    told.
                On such errands as this, she is employed until the party descend to the parlour,
                    where the bell is again rung more imperatively, and tea is ordered to be brought
                    instanter. In the mean time, the fire has dwindled to the lowest bar. The
                    mistress looks for coals, but the usual receptacle is empty. She feels as if
                    there were a conspiracy against her. There is—there can be no one
                    to blame but the servant; and thus her chagrin is alleviated by complaints
                    against servants in general, and her own in particular. With these complaints,
                    and often-repeated apologies, the time is occupied until the appearance of the
                    long-expected meal, when the guest is pressed
                    to partake of a repast not sweetened by the comments of her hostess, or the
                    harassed and forlorn appearance of an overworked domestic.
                The mistress of this house may all the while be glad to see her guest, and may
                    really regard her as an intimate and valued friend; but never having made it an
                    object to practise the domestic virtue of making others happy, she knows not how
                    to convey any better idea of a welcome than by words. She therefore sets
                    deliberately to work to describe how happy she esteems herself in receiving so
                    dear a friend—wishes some third party were at home—hopes to be able to amuse
                    her—tells of the parties she has engaged for each successive evening—brings out
                    a pile of engravings—fears her guest is weary—and lastly, at a very early hour,
                    rings for the chamber-candlesticks presuming that her visitor would like to
                    retire.
                It is needless to observe that the generality of visiters do retire upon this
                    hint; and it is equally needless to add, that the individual here described
                    fails to exhibit the character of the true English woman, whose
                    peculiar charm is that of diffusing happiness, without appearing conspicuously
                    as the agent in its diffusion. It is from the unseen, but active principle of
                    disinterested love, ever working at her heart,
                    that she enters, with a perception as delicate as might be supposed
                    to belong to a ministering angel, into the peculiar feelings and tones of
                    character influencing those around her, applying the magical key of sympathy to
                    all they suffer or enjoy, to all they fear or hope, until she becomes identified
                    as it were with their very being, blends her own existence with theirs, and
                    makes her society essential to their highest earthly enjoyment.
                If a heightened degree of earthly enjoyment were all we could expect to obtain by
                    this line of conduct, I should still be disposed to think the effect produced
                    would be richly worth our pains. But I must again repeat, that the great aim of
                    a christian woman will always be, so to make others happy, that their feelings
                    shall be attuned to the reception of better thoughts than those which relate to
                    mere personal enjoyment—so to make others happy, as to win them over to a full
                    perception of the loveliness of those christian virtues which her own life and
                    conduct consistently show forth.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER VIII.
                DOMESTIC HABITS—CONSIDERATION AND KINDNESS.
                THE subject of consideration might be continued to almost any extent,
                    since it seems either to comprehend, or to be closely connected with, all that
                    is morally excellent in woman. We shall, however, confine our attention to only
                    a few more of those important branches in which this fertile theme demands our
                    serious thought—towards those who are beneath us in pecuniary circumstances, and
                    towards those with whom we are associated in the nearest domestic relations.
                The young and inexperienced having never themselves tasted the cup of adversity,
                    are, in a great measure, excusable for not knowing how to treat the morbid and
                    susceptible feelings, which the fact of having drank deeply of that cup often
                    produces; nor is it easy to communicate to their minds any idea of the extreme of suffering to which this tone of feeling may
                    extend. Much may be done, however, by cultivating habits of consideration, by
                    endeavouring sometimes to identify themselves with those who suffer, by asking
                    how it would be with them if their parents had fallen below what, by the world,
                    is called respectability—if they were obliged to seek the means of maintaining
                    themselves—if they were admitted into families by sufferance, and only on
                    condition that they should remain until another home could be found, in which
                    their own hands might minister to their necessities.
                There is no class of beings whose circumstances altogether are more calculated to
                    call forth our tenderest sympathies, than those delicate females whose fireside
                    comforts are broken up by the adverse turn of their pecuniary affairs, and who
                    are consequently sent forth to share the lot of families unknown to them, and to
                    throw themselves upon the kindness and consideration of strangers. It is in
                    cases of this kind, especially, that we see the importance of having cultivated
                    the moral faculties, of having instilled into the mind those sound principles of
                    integrity, usefulness, and moral responsibility, which, in proportion as they
                    become the foundation of our familiar and daily conduct, necessarily invest every act of duty with a
                    cheerfulness which cannot fail to be acceptable in the sight of that merciful
                    Creator, who alone is capable of transforming what is irksome or repulsive to
                    the natural feelings, into sources of gratitude and delight.
                The frequent occurrence of such changes in the pecuniary affairs of English
                    families, as render it necessary for the female members to be thus
                    circumstanced, is, therefore, one amongst the many reasons, why the effects of
                    that false refinement which is gradually increasing amongst the female part of
                    English society, should be counteracted by the strenuous efforts of the
                    well-wishers of their country; and high time it is, that all our energies should
                    be roused, not by any means to retard the progress of intellect, but to force
                    along with it the growth of sound principles, and the increase of moral
                    power.
                Persons who are reduced in their pecuniary circumstances are generally judged of
                    as we judge our servants, and those who are born to humble means; they are
                    required to have no faults, and the public cry is especially directed against
                    them, if they evince the least symptom of pride. Indeed, so great is our
                    abhorrence of this particular fault, that we often make even a slight evidence
                    of its existence a plea for the discontinuance
                    of our bounty and our favour. We forget that the pride of the individuals in
                    question has perhaps been ministered to throughout the whole of their former
                    lives, and that they, no more than we, can renounce their soul-besetting sins,
                    as they give up the luxuries they are no longer able to procure. We forget,
                    also, that their circumstances are calculated, in an especial manner, to rouse
                    the lurking evil, even had it never been conspicuous in their characters
                    before.
                The man who floats safely upon the stream of worldly prosperity, with his early
                    companions a little lower than himself, can afford to be gracious and
                    conciliating; but when he begins to sink, and feels the same companions
                    struggling to float past him, and finally leaving him to contend with his
                    difficulties, his feelings towards them undergo a total change: he accounts
                    himself an injured man, and becomes a prey to envy, disappointment, and wounded
                    pride. The world's contumely, more grievous than his actual privations, assails
                    his peace of mind; he learns to look for unkindness, and to expect it even where
                    it does not exist. In the stranger's eye he reads contempt and neglect; he
                    lives, as it were, surrounded by daggers—bleeding at every pore, and wounded by
                        every thing with which he comes in
                    contact. “How absurd!” is the exclamation we hear from the prosperous and
                    inconsiderate—“how worse than absurd for a man to be feeling in this manner,
                    because he has lost a few hundreds!” And yet men do feel to such a degree, that
                    nothing but religion can enable them to bear such vicissitudes with calmness and
                    resignation. And even when supported by religion, it has pleased our heavenly
                    Father to accompany these dispensations of his providence, with a degree of
                    suffering to which no human mind is insensible.
                It is generally regarded as the extreme of benevolence, if, in our intercourse
                    with such persons, we treat them exactly as we did in more prosperous days; and
                    few there are who can at all times withhold expressions equivalent to these:
                    “How unreasonable it is to expect so much attention now! It is not likely we can
                    ask that family to meet our friends; we should be willing still to
                    notice them in a private way, if they would but be more grateful—more
                        considerate.” And thus they are allowed to pass away from our
                    social gatherings, to be called upon perhaps occasionally at their own humble
                    abodes, but by no means to be invited in return, lest some of our wealthier
                    friends should detect us in the act of performing the offices of hospitality to a person in a
                    threadbare coat. And yet this family may have done nothing worse than thousands
                    are doing every day—than even our richest and dearest friends are doing—and we
                    may know it all the while.
                It sickens the heart to think of these things, and to reflect how far—how very
                    far, even the good and the kind fall short of that beautiful and heart-touching
                    injunction of our blessed Saviour, “When thou makest a feast, call the poor, the
                    maimed, the lame, the blind.”
                The wealthy and distinguished man, with whom we have but a slight acquaintance,
                    sends his son into our neighbourhood on business or pleasure. We hear of his
                    coming, and persuade ourselves it is but respectful to invite him to be our
                    guest. It is at the expense of our domestic comfort that we entertain him—but
                    that is nothing. Difficulties appear on every hand, to vanish as soon as they
                    appear; we even persuade ourselves that a sort of merit attaches to our doing
                    all in our power to accommodate the son of so distinguished a person.
                The poor widow, perhaps our relative, sends her son to town to seek
                    a situation, and we hear of his coming. We knew his mother in more
                    prosperous days. She was a worthy woman then,
                    but her husband died insolvent, and the family necessarily fell away from what
                    they had been. It cannot be at all incumbent upon us to ask such young men as
                    these to our houses. They might come in shoals. Our domestic comfort would be
                    sacrificed, and it is the duty of every one to maintain the peace and order of
                    their own household.
                Thus the widow's son is allowed to wander up and down the streets, to resort to
                    expensive lodging-houses, and to purchase, with the pittance provided by his
                    mother from her slender means, that accommodation which a little christian
                    hospitality might have spared him.
                We complain that our streets are thronged on the Sabbath-day with troops of idle
                    young men and women, who afford a painful spectacle to those who pass them on
                    their way to public worship. How many of these—apprentices, and assistants in
                    business—are actually driven into the streets from very want of any thing like a
                    hospitable or social home!
                I am by no means prepared to say, how far true christian benevolence, acted out
                    towards this class of the community, would lead us to give up our domestic
                    comfort for their sakes, and for the sake of preserving them from harm; but I do
                    know it would lead us to adopt a very
                    different treatment of them, from that which generally prevails; and I consider
                    also, that these duties rest especially with women.
                It is not easy for a man who has to fill the office of master to a number of
                    apprentices and assistants during the hours of business, to unbend before them
                    at his own fireside. But a considerate and high-principled woman, may, without
                    loss of dignity, and certainly without loss of respect, make them feel that she
                    regards it as her duty to be their friend as well as their mistress, and that
                    she looks upon herself as under a sacred obligation to advise them in
                    difficulties, to guard their welfare, and to promote their comfort, simply
                    because the all-wise Disposer of human affairs has seen meet to place them
                    within the sphere of her influence.
                I have devoted a chapter to the influence of English women. Many chapters might
                    be filled with the duties of tradesmen's wives towards the young people employed
                    in their husband's affairs, and the responsibility attaching to them, for the
                    tone of moral character which such persons exhibit through the whole of their
                    after lives. Of how little value, in this point of view, is the immense variety
                    of accomplishments generally acquired at
                    school, compared with the discrimination and tact that would enable a woman to
                    extend her influence among the class of persons here described, and the
                    principle that would lead her to turn such influence to the best account. How
                    many a mother's heart would be made glad by finding, when her son returned to
                    his home, that he had experienced something of a mother's kindness from his
                    master's wife; and how many a father would rejoice that his child had been
                    preserved from the temptations of a city life, by the good feeling that was
                    cherished and kept alive at his master's fireside!
                It is for circumstances such as these, that a large proportion of the young women
                    of England, now undergoing the process of education, have to prepare. Not to
                    imitate the heroines they read of; but to plunge into the actual cares, and
                    duties, and responsibilities of every-day existence. They will probably have
                    little time either for drawing or music, may seldom be spoken to in a foreign
                    tongue, and hardly have an opportunity of displaying half the amount of verbal
                    knowledge with which their memories have been stored. But they will, if they are
                    at all intent upon fulfilling the great end of their existence, have to bethink
                    themselves every hour, what is best to be done for the good and the happiness of those around them. For this great and
                    laudable purpose, it is of the highest importance that they should cultivate
                    habits of consideration, for how else can they expect to enter into the states
                    of mind, and modes of feeling of those with whom they associate, so as to render
                    the means they use effectual to the end desired?
                It happens to almost all families, in the middle rank of life in England, that
                    they are directly or remotely connected with relatives whose pecuniary means are
                    much more limited than their own. To these, as well as to persons of recently
                    decayed fortune, it is generally thought highly meritorious to extend the common
                    courtesies of society. It implies no disrespect to this class of individuals, to
                    call them poor relations; since the poor are often brought into a state of
                    wholesome discipline, which eventually places them higher than the rich in the
                    scale of moral worth. The poor relation may possibly have known in very early
                    life what it was to enjoy all the comforts that ample means afford; but she
                    becomes at last a sort of useful appendage to an uncle's or a brother's family,
                    or is invited by her cousins whenever they happen to be in arrears with their
                    plain-work—when one of the family wants nursing through a tedious illness—or
                    when they are going abroad, and require some
                    one to overlook the household in their absence.
                The poor relation, in the first place, is shown upstairs into a kind of tolerable
                    attic, where the walls are whitewashed, and where a little bed with blue-check
                    curtains is prepared for her accommodation. They hope she will not mind sleeping
                    in the attic—indeed they are sure she will not, she is such a dear, good
                    creature; besides, they all like the attic for the view it commands, and mamma
                    says it is the most comfortable room in the house: yet, somehow or other, the
                    young ladies never sleep in the attic themselves; and considering it is the most
                    desirable room in the house, and commands so excellent a view, it is
                    astonishingly seldom occupied.
                The poor relation is then introduced to company without a name—is spoken of as
                    the person staying at Mrs. So and So's; and, after being told that
                    she need not sit longer than is agreeable to her after meals, is fairly
                    installed into office, by being informed, that the south chamber is very warm
                    without a fire, and has a good light too, so that she can see an hour longer
                    there than in any other. Here the different members of the family bring their
                    work for her to do, looking round every time they enter, with a hope that she
                        does not feel cold. From the young lady of
                    twenty years, to the child of three, a demand is made upon her for the supply of
                    all absent buttons, and all broken strings. All the stockings hoarded up against
                    her coming are brought to her to be darned—all borders to quill—all linen to be
                    mended: and this inundation of work is the natural consequence of her having
                    shown symptoms of a desire to be generally agreeable; but if no such desire has
                    been exhibited, wo betide the poor relation who proposes a visit to a rich one,
                    where kindly feeling and habits of consideration have never been cultivated.
                I remember it was very startling to me in my youth, and appeared to me at that
                    time a contradiction in human nature, that, while people had comfortable homes,
                    and were surrounded by everything that could minister to enjoyment, they were
                    often invited out to partake of the enjoyments of their friends, and so pressed
                    to prolong such visits, that it seemed as if their friends could never be weary
                    of their society. But, let the same individuals have no home, let them be placed
                    in circumstances calculated to render an invitation peculiarly acceptable, and
                    it was with difficulty obtained, or not obtained at all. Though in all respects
                    as agreeable as in former days, they were not
                    pressed to stay beyond a very limited period; and some who had been the most
                    solicitous to enjoy the favour of their company, suddenly found their
                    accommodations so exceedingly small, that they could not invite any guest to
                    partake of their hospitality.
                But these, my sisters, are disgraceful ways, for woman—warm-hearted, generous,
                    noble-minded woman, to fall into. From men we expect not all those little
                    niceties of behaviour and feeling that would tend to heal the wounds of
                    adversity. Their necessary pursuits deprive them of many opportunities of making
                    the unfortunate and afflicted feel, that, amidst the wreck of their worldly
                    hopes, they have at least retained some moral dignity in the estimation of their
                    friends; but from woman we do look for some redeeming charities, some tenderness
                    of heart among the sordid avocations and selfish pursuits of this life; and
                    never do they rise to such true eminence, as when they bestow these charities,
                    and apply this tenderness to the broken in spirit, the neglected, and the
                    desolate, who are incapable of rendering them any return.
                Harassed by the cares and perplexities of a sordid world, and disappointed in the
                    high promise of our early youth; neglected, perhaps despised, where we had hoped to find protection and support in
                    the hour of trial; driven out from the temples of our soul's idolatry; it is to
                    woman that we look for the mantle of charity, to cast over the blighted
                    bosom—for the drop of sweetness, to mingle with our bitter cup. We stretch our
                    eyes over the wide tumultuous ocean of life, for some spot on which our ark may
                    rest. We send forth the raven, and it returns not; but the gentler dove comes
                    back with the olive-branch, and we hail it as a harbinger of safety and
                    peace.
                Although it must be confessed that women are sometimes too negligent of the
                    tender offices of kindness towards those who have no immediate claim upon their
                    affections, there remains some excuse for this particular species of
                    culpability, in the general usages of society, and in the example of discreet
                    and prudent persons, who deem it unsafe to deviate in any conspicuous manner
                    from the beaten track of custom. No excuse, however, can be found for those who
                    permit the closer ties of relationship to exist, without endeavouring to weave
                    into the same bond all the tender sympathies of which the human heart is
                    capable.
                Brothers and sisters are so associated in English homes, as materially to promote
                    each other's happiness, by the habits of kindness and consideration which they cultivate; and when a strong friendship
                    can be formed between such parties, it is perhaps one of the most faithful and
                    disinterested of any which the aspect of human life presents. A young man of
                    kind and social feelings is often glad to find in his sister, a substitute for
                    what he afterwards ensures more permanently in a wife; and young women are not
                    backward in returning this affection by a love as confiding, and almost as
                    tender as they are capable of feeling. Their intercourse has also the endearing
                    charm of early association, which no later-formed acquaintance can supply. They
                    have shared the sunny hours of childhood together; and when the young man goes
                    forth into the world, the love of his sister is like a talisman about his heart.
                    Women, however, must be watchful and studious to establish this intimate
                    connexion, and to keep entire the golden cord by which they are thus bound.
                    Affection does not come by relationship alone; and never yet was the affection
                    of man fully and lastingly engaged by woman, without some means being adopted on
                    her part to increase or preserve his happiness. The childish and most
                    unsatisfactory fondness that means nothing but “I love you,” goes but a little
                    way to reach the heart of man; but let his home be made more 
                        comfort-
                        comfortable
                     able, let his peculiarities of habit
                    and temper be studiously consulted, and social and familiar gratifications
                    provided for his daily use; and, unless he is ungrateful beyond the common
                    average of mankind, he will be sure to regard the source from whence his
                    comforts flow with extreme complacency, and not unfrequently with affection.
                On the other hand, let the sister possess all that ardour of attachment which
                    young ladies are apt to believe they feel, let her hang about his neck at
                    parting, and bathe his face with her tears; if she has not taken the trouble to
                    rise and prepare his early meal, but has allowed him to depend upon the servant,
                    or to prepare it for himself; it is very questionable whether that brother can
                    be made to believe in her affection; and certainly he will be far from feeling
                    its value. If, again, they read some interesting volume together, if she lends
                    her willing sympathy, and blends her feelings with his, entering into all the
                    trains of thought and recollection which two congenial minds are capable of
                    awakening in each other; and if, after the book is closed, he goes up into his
                    chamber late on the Saturday night, and finds his linen unaired, buttonless, and
                    unattended to, with the gloves he had ten times asked to have mended, remaining
                    untouched, where he had left them; he soon loses  the impression of the social hour he had been
                    spending, and wishes, that, instead of an idle sister, he had a faithful and
                    industrious wife. He reasons, and reasons rightly, that while his sister is
                    willing to share with him all that is most agreeable to herself, she is by no
                    means willing to do for his sake what is not agreeable, and he concludes his
                    argument with the conviction, that notwithstanding her professions, hers is not
                    true affection.
                I do not mean that sisters ought to be the servants of their brothers, or that
                    they should not, where domestics abound, leave the practical part of these
                    duties to them. All that is wanted is stronger evidence of their watchfulness
                    and their solicitude for their brother's real comfort. The manner in which this
                    evidence shall be given, must still be left to their judgment, and their
                    circumstances. There are, however a few simple rules, by which I should suppose
                    all kindly affectioned women would be willing to be guided. No woman in the
                    enjoyment of health should allow her brother to prepare his own meals at any
                    time of the day, if it were possible for her to do it for him. No woman should
                    allow her brother to put on linen in a state of dilapidation, to wear gloves or
                    stockings in want of mending, or to return home without finding a neat parlour,
                    a place to sit down without asking for it, and
                    a cheerful invitation to partake of necessary refreshment.
                All this I believe is often faithfully done, where the brother is a gentlemanly,
                    attractive, and prepossessing person—in short, a person to be proud of in
                    company, and pleased with in private; but a brother is a brother still, even
                    where these attractions do not exist: where the duty is most irksome, the moral
                    responsibility is precisely the same, as where it is most pleasing. Besides, who
                    knows what female influence may not effect? It is scarcely probable that a
                    younger brother, treated by his sisters with perpetual contempt, almost
                    bordering upon disgust, regarded as an intolerable bore, and got rid of by every
                    practicable means, will grow up into a companionable, interesting, and social
                    man; or if he should, he would certainly reserve these qualities for exercise
                    beyond the circle of his own fireside, and for the benefit of those who could
                    appreciate him better than his sisters.
                The virtue of consideration, in the intercourse of sisters with brothers, is
                    never more felt than in the sacred duty of warning them of moral evil, and
                    encouraging them in moral good. Here we see in an especial manner the advantages
                    arising from habits of personal attention and kindness. A woman who stands aloof from the common offices of
                    domestic usefulness, may very properly extend her advice to a husband, a
                    brother, or a son; but when she has faithfully pointed out the fault she would
                    correct, she must leave the object of her solicitude, with his wounded self-love
                    unhealed, and his irritated feelings unrelieved. She has done her duty, and the
                    impression most frequently remaining upon the mind of the other party is, either
                    that she has done it in anger, or that it is impossible she can love a being of
                    whom she entertains such hard thoughts.
                The sister who is accustomed to employ her hands in the services of domestic
                    life, is, on these occasions, rich in resources. She feels the pain she has been
                    compelled to give, and calculates how much she has to make up. It is a time for
                    tenfold effort; but it must be effort without display. In a gentle and
                    unobtrusive manner, she does some extra service for her brother, choosing what
                    would otherwise be degrading in its own nature, in order to prove in the most
                    delicate manner, that though she can see a fault in him, she still esteems
                    herself his inferior, and though she is cruel enough to point it out, her love
                    is yet so deep and pure as to sweeten every service she can render him.
                It is impossible for the human heart to resist
                    this kind of evidence, and hence arises the strong influence that women possess
                    over the moral feelings of those with whom they are intimately associated.
                If such, then, be the effect of kindness and consideration upon the heart of man,
                    what must we expect when it operates in all its force and all its sweetness upon
                    that of woman. In her intercourse with man, it is impossible but that woman
                    should feel her own inferiority; and it is right that it should be so. Yet,
                    feeling this, it is also impossible but that the weight of social and moral
                    duties she is called upon to perform, must, to an unsanctified spirit, at times
                    appear oppressive. She has innumerable sources of disquietude, too, in which no
                    man can partake; and from the very weakness and susceptibility of her own
                    nature, she has need of sympathies which it would be impossible for him to
                    render. She does not meet him upon equal terms. Her part is to make sacrifices,
                    in order that his enjoyment may be enhanced. She does this with a willing
                    spirit; but, from error of judgment, or from want of consideration, she does it
                    so often without producing any adequate result, and so often without grateful
                    acknowledgment, that her spirit sometimes sinks within her, and she shrinks back
                    from the cares and anxieties of every day,
                    with a feeling that the burden of life is too heavy to be borne.
                Nor is man to be blamed for this. He knows not half the foolish fears that
                    agitate her breast. He could not be made to know, still less to understand, the
                    intensity of her capability of suffering, from slight, and what to him would
                    appear inadequate causes. But women do know what their sex is
                    formed to suffer; and for this very reason, there is sometimes a bond existing
                    between sisters, the most endearing, the most pure and disinterested, of any
                    description of affection which this world affords.
                I am the more inclined to think that the strength of this bond arises chiefly out
                    of their mutual knowledge of each other's capability of receiving pain; because,
                    in families whose circumstances are uniformly easy, and who have never known the
                    visitation of any deep affliction, we often see the painful spectacle of sisters
                    forming obstacles to each other in their progress, both to temporal and eternal
                    happiness. They seem to think the hey-day of life so unlikely to be clouded,
                    that they can afford, wantonly and perversely, to intercept the sunshine that
                    would otherwise fall upon each other's path; or to calculate so confidently upon
                    the continued 
                        smooth-
                        smoothness
                     ness of the stream of time, that
                    they sportively drive each other upon the rocks and the quicksands, which, even
                    in the glad season of youth, will occasionally appear; while the very fact of
                    knowing each other's weak points of character, while it ought to excite their
                    utmost tenderness, only affords them subjects for tormenting sarcasm and biting
                    scorn.
                I have heard of hackney-coachmen in a certain highly-civilized metropolis, who
                    adopt the cruel practice of lashing a galled or wounded part, if they can find
                    one in the wretched animals they drive; but I hardly think the practice,
                    abhorrent as it is, demands our condemnation more than that of the women who are
                    thus false and cruel to each other—who, because they know exactly where to
                    wound, apply the instrument of torture to the mind, unsparingly, and with the
                    worst effect.
                Let us glance hastily over the humiliating supposition that such a propensity
                    does actually exist amongst women. Let us glance hastily, too, over the long
                    train of minute and irremediable evils which the exercise of such a propensity
                    is calculated to produce—the wounded feeling, the imagined injury, the
                    suspicious dread, the bitter retort, and the secretly-cherished revenge. It
                        is not enough for those who practise such
                    habits to say, “I mean no harm: I love my sister, and would do her any signal
                    service in my power.” Opportunities of performing signal services do not often
                    fall in our way; but while we wait for these, we have opportunities innumerable
                    of soothing or irritating the feelings of others, as our own dispositions
                    prompt—of repelling or attracting—of weaning affection, or of inspiring
                    confidence;—and these ends are easily obtained, by the manner in which we
                    conduct ourselves towards those whom Providence has placed immediately around
                    us.
                So many young women, however, escape the censure here implied, by their
                    self-complacency on the score of general kindness, that it may, perhaps, be as
                    well to speak more explicitly on this important subject. It is not, then, to
                    direct unkindness that I refer, but to that general absence of kind
                    consideration, which produces the same effect. Perhaps one sister is
                    unreasonably elated at the success of some of her plans: and in the midst of her
                    extatic joy she finds herself mimicked with all the air of ineffable contempt,
                    by another. Perhaps one sister is rather unusually depressed in spirits from
                    some incommunicable cause: the others pretend to weep, and make her gravity the subject of their merriment. Perhaps, in a
                    moment of extreme embarrassment, she has committed some breach of good breeding,
                    or looked awkward, or spoken foolishly: she finds afterwards that watchful eyes
                    have been upon her, and that her every tone and movement have been the subject
                    of ridicule in a little coterie of her sisters and her friends. Above all,
                    perhaps she has gone a little too far in meeting the attentions of the other
                    sex, and a merciless outcry is against her, with her sisters at its head.
                Besides all this, there are often the strong wills of both parties set in
                    opposition to each other, with a pertinacity that time itself is unable to
                    subdue. For if, from the necessity of circumstances, one sister has on one
                    occasion been compelled to give way, she is only fortified with fresh resolution
                    for the next point of dispute, that she may enjoy her turn of victory and
                    triumph. These disputes are often about the merest trifles in the world, things
                    so entirely worthless and unimportant in themselves, that to find they have been
                    the cause of angry words or bitter feelings, may well excite our astonishment,
                    at the same time that it ought to teach us fresh lessons of distrust of
                    ourselves, of humility, and watchful care.
                
                It is in this manner that sisters will sometimes imbitter their early days, and
                    make what ought to be the bower of repose, a scene of rivalry and strife. But
                    let us change this harsh picture, and turn to the sunnier hours of youthful
                    love, when sisters who have shared one home in childhood, then separated by
                    adverse circumstances, return, after the lapse of years, to enjoy a few brief
                    days of heart-communings beneath the same roof again. How lovely then are the
                    morning hours, when they rise with the sun, to lengthen out the day. They seat
                    themselves in the old window, where their little childish hands were wont to
                    pluck the tendrils of the rambling vine. They look out upon the lawn, and it is
                    arrayed in the same green as when they gambolled there. The summer apple-tree,
                    from whence they shook the rosy fruit, has moss upon its boughs: and the
                    spreading ash reminds them they are no longer able to climb its topmost branch.
                    What vicissitudes have they known—what change of place and circumstance have
                    they experienced—since they planted the small osier that now stands a stately
                    willow by the stream! We will not ask what cruel necessity first drove them
                    separately from this peaceful abode—what blight fell on their prospects—what
                    ruin on their hopes. Are they not sisters
                    unchanged in their affection?—and in this very consciousness they have a world
                    of wealth. Where is the keen, contemptuous gaze of satire now? Where are the
                    bickerings, the envyings, the words of provocation? They would esteem it
                    sacrilege to profane that place and hour with other thoughts than those of
                    kindness. The mote and the beam have vanished from their eyes: they know each
                    other's faults, but they behold them only to pity and forgive, or speak of them
                    only to correct. Each heart is laid bare before the others, and the oil and the
                    wine are poured in, to heal the wounds which the stranger has made. Each has her
                    own store of painful experience to unfold; and she weeps to find her sister's
                    greater than her own. Each has had her share of insult, coldness, and neglect;
                    and she is roused to indignation by hearing that her sister has had the same.
                    Self becomes as nothing in comparison with the intense interest excited by a
                    sister's experience; and as the secret anxieties of each bosom are revealed,
                    fresh floods of tenderness are called forth, and the early bond of childhood,
                    strengthened by vicissitude and matured by time, is woven yet more closely
                    around the hearts of all. Thus they go forth into the world again, strong in the
                    confidence of that unshaken love which formed
                    the sunshine of their childhood, and is now the solace of their riper years.
                    They may weep the tears of the alien in the stranger's home, but they look
                    forward to the summer-days of heart-warm confidence, when they shall meet again
                    with the loveliest and the most beloved of all earth's treasures, and the wintry
                    hours pass over them bereft of half their power to blight.
                If such be the experience, and such the enjoyments of sisters separated by
                    affliction, what must be the privileged lot of those, who, without any change of
                    fortune, any falling off from the golden promise of early life, or any
                    heart-rending bereavement, learn the happy art of finding their enjoyment in
                    each other, by studying what will make each other happy? There may be faithful
                    friendships formed in after years; but where a sister is a sister's friend,
                    there can be none so tender, and none so true. For a brother she may possibly
                    entertain a more romantic attachment, because the difference in their
                    circumstances may afford more to interest their feelings; but there is one
                    universal point of failure in the friendship that exists between brothers and
                    sisters—when a man marries, he finds in his wife all that he valued in his
                    sister, with a more endearing sense of certainty in its possession; and when a woman marries, she finds all that she
                    needed in the way of friendship and protection, with more of tenderness, of
                    interest, and identity, than it was possible for her to experience in the
                    affection of her brother. Hence there arises, even in the uncalculating breast
                    of youth, a suspicion that this friendship cannot last; and the breaking up of
                    those establishments in which the sister has regulated the domestic affairs of
                    her brother, is often a melancholy proof that the termination of their intimacy
                    ought to have been calculated upon with more certainty than it generally is.
                With sisters the case is widely different. They may seek in vain, through all the
                    high and noble attributes of man, for that which is to be found alone in the
                    true heart of woman; and, weak themselves, susceptible, dependent, and holding
                    their happiness as it were with a sword suspended above their heads, they have
                    need to be faithful to each other.
                No friend in after life can know so well as a sister what is the peculiar and
                    natural bias of the character. Education may change the manners, and
                    circumstances may call new faculties to light; but the old leaven remains at the
                    heart's core, and a sister knows it well.
                Women often share with other friends 
                        enjoy-
                        enjoyments
                     ments in which their sisters take no
                    part; but they have not roamed together over that garden whose very weeds are
                    lovely—the fertile and luxuriant garden of childhood; they have not drank
                    together at that fountain whose bubbling waters are ever bright and pure—the
                    early fountain of domestic joy; and the absence of this one charm in their
                    friendship, must necessarily shut them out from participation in a world of
                    associations, more dear, more beautiful, and more enduring, than the longest
                    after-life can supply.
                I know not how it is with others, but it seems to me, that there never is—there
                    never can be, amusement so original, so piquant, and so fraught with glee, as
                    that which is enjoyed amongst happy sisters at their own fireside, or in their
                    chamber, where one hardly would deny them all their idle hours of
                    laughter and delight. The very circumstances which to one alone would have been
                    a burden of heavy care, when participated in, are nothing; and the mere fact of
                    talking over all their daily trials, sets every bosom free to beat and bound
                    with a new life.
                We must not however forget, it is in seasons of affliction that we prove the real
                    value of the deep well-spring of a sister's love. Other hands, and hands perhaps
                    as skilful, may smooth our couch in sickness.
                    Other voices may speak words of kindness in our hour of need, and other eyes may
                    beam upon us with tenderness and love; but can they ever be like the hands that
                    joined with ours in twining the rosy wreaths of infancy—the voices that spoke
                    sweetly to us in the tones of childhood—the eyes that gazed with ours, in all
                    the wonder of first-dawning thought, abroad upon the beautiful creation, over
                    the earth and sea, the green hills, and the waving woods, and up to the starry
                    heavens, that page of glory too bright for human eye to read.
                No; there is something in the home-fellowship of early life, that we cannot, if
                    we would, shake off in the days of darkness and distress, when sickness clouds
                    the brow, and grief sits heavily upon the heart. It is then that we pine for the
                    faithful hand, the voice that was an echo to our own, and the kindred
                    countenance so familiar in our childhood; and sisters who are kindly affectioned
                    one towards another are not slow to answer this appeal of nature. Tender and
                    delicate women are not backward to make sacrifices in such a cause. They will
                    hasten upon difficult and dangerous journeys, without feeling the perils they
                    undergo. The anticipated accidents of time and chance have no weight with them,
                    for self is annihilated by the overwhelming
                    power of their affection. Obstacles cannot hinder, nor persuasion retard their
                    purpose: a sister suffers, and they esteem it their highest privilege to assert,
                    in defiance of all opposition, the indisputable claims of a sister's love. They
                    have an inalienable right to share in her calamity, whatever it may be; and this
                    right they will not resign to another.
                But what shall stay my pen, when I touch upon this fertile and inexhaustible
                    theme? Sisters who have never known the deepest, holiest influence of a sister's
                    love, will not be enabled, from any definition I can offer, to understand the
                    purity, and the refreshing power of this well-spring of human happiness. Sisters
                    who have known this, will also know that its height and its depth are beyond the
                    power of language to describe; that it is, indeed, the love which many waters
                    cannot quench, neither can the floods drown it.
                Is it not, then, worth all the cost of the most studious consideration, the most
                    careful kindness, to win this treasure, and to make it ours? to purchase this
                    gem, and to wear it next our hearts? I have pointed out some of the means by
                    which it may be lost or won: I will now point out the most important reasons why
                    it should be cherished with unceasing assiduity.
                
                Sisters have an almost unbounded influence over each other; and all influence
                    implies a proportionate degree of moral responsibility. The tone and temper of
                    the human mind must be closely watched, and intimately studied, in order to
                    apply with effect the means of benefit. The most zealous endeavours to do good,
                    may fail for want of opportunity; but opportunity never can be wanting to those
                    who share the same domestic hearth, who sit at the same board, and occupy the
                    same chamber of rest. There must, with such, be unveilings of the heart before
                    each other. There must be seasons for administering advice, and for imparting
                    instruction, which the stranger never can command. But without the practice of
                    those habits of kindness and consideration, so earnestly recommended here, the
                    nearest relative, even the sister, may be placed on the same footing as the
                    stranger, and have no more familiar access to the heart than the mere
                    acquaintance.
                It is therefore most important to the true Christian, whose desire is to invite
                    others to a participation in the blessings she enjoys, that she should seek to
                    promote the happiness of those around her, in such a way as to render them easy
                    and familiar in her presence, and to convince them that she is in word and deed
                    their friend. Until this object is attained,
                    little good can be done in the way of influence; but this secured, innumerable
                    channels are opened, by which an enlightened mind may operate beneficially upon
                    others.
                We will imagine the case of a sister, whose feelings have been recently impressed
                    with the importance of some hitherto unpractised ditty, and who, at a loss how
                    to begin with that improvement in her daily conduct which conscience points out
                    as necessary to her peace, shrinks from the notice of the world, abashed at the
                    idea of assuming more than she has been accustomed to maintain. With what fear
                    and trembling will such a one, in her closet or her chamber, at the close of the
                    summer's evening, or by the last glimmer of the winter's fire, when she and her
                    sister share the silent hours of night together, unfold the burden of her
                    spirit, and reveal the inner workings of her troubled mind! What should we say
                    of a sister who treated this confidence with treachery, with ridicule or spleen?
                    What should we say, but that she deserved to find the heart she had thus
                    insulted a sealed book to her for ever? What should we say, on the other hand,
                    of her who met this confidence with tenderness and respect? That she enjoyed one
                    of the greatest privileges permitted us in this our imperfect and degraded
                    state—the privilege of imparting consolation
                    and instruction at the same time, and of binding to her bosom the fond affection
                    of a sister, as her comfort and support through all her after years.
                It is a common remark for sisters to make upon each other, that they would have
                    paid some deference to the religious scruple, or the pious wish, had it
                    originated with a more consistent person. They should remember that there must
                    be a dawning of imperfect light, to usher in the perfect day; and that he who
                    crushes the first germ of vegetation, commits an act equivalent to that of him
                    who fells the stately tree. They should remember also, it is not only the great
                    and public efforts of christian benevolence and charity, that are owned of God,
                    and blessed with his approval; but that at the hour of midnight, in the secret
                    chamber, and when the world takes no cognizance of our actions, His eye beholds
                    them, and His ear is open to detect the slightest whisper that conveys its
                    blessing or its bane to the heart of a familiar friend.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER IX.
                DOMESTIC HABITS—CONSIDERATION AND KINDNESS.
                THERE yet remain some aspects of human life, which it is impossible to
                    pass over without the most earnest solicitude, that even if in all other
                    capacities woman should forget her responsibility, she might remember what is
                    due from her in these. It is, then, to the sacred and inalienable bond between a
                    daughter and her parents, that our attention must now be given.
                It would seem but reasonable to suppose, that as soon as an amiable young woman
                    of even partially enlightened mind, attained that stage of maturity when most
                    rational beings begin to make use of their own powers of observation, she would
                    naturally be led to reflect upon the situation of her mother, to contemplate her
                    character and habits, and to regard, with sympathy at least, the daily and hourly fatigues, and anxieties, which the
                    nature of her domestic circumstances renders it necessary for her to undergo. If
                    the young person has brothers or sisters less advanced in life than herself, she
                    cannot fail to observe the assiduity with which all their wants are provided for
                    by maternal care, as well as the self-denial and disinterested love, by which
                    their safety is guarded, and their happiness preserved.
                It is equally reasonable to suppose, that having such interesting subjects of
                    grateful and affectionate consideration continually present to her eye, and to
                    her mind, the young person would reason thus: “In this manner my mother has
                    watched over me. Through long nights of weariness and exhaustion she has rocked
                    me in her arms, and stilled the sighs of her own bosom, from the fear of
                    disturbing my repose. Not only has she denied herself every amusement and every
                    gratification that would have drawn her away from the sphere of my childish
                    pastimes, but also the wonted recreations necessary for the preservation of her
                    health; until her cheek grew pale, and her step feeble in my service. I was then
                    unable to make any other return than by my infantine caresses; and often when
                    she was the most weary, or the most enfeebled, my pampered selfishness was the most requiring. Thus I have incurred
                    a debt of gratitude, for the repayment of which the limit of a natural life will
                    scarcely be sufficient. The summer of her existence is waning: mine is yet to
                    come. I will so cultivate my feelings, and regulate my habits, as to enjoy the
                    happiness of sharing her domestic burdens, and thus prove to her that I am not
                    unmindful of the benefit I have myself derived from the long-suffering of a
                    mother's love.”
                Do we find this to be the prevailing feeling amongst the young ladies of the
                    present day? Do we find the respected and venerated mother so carefully
                    cherished, that she is permitted to sit in perfect peace, the presiding genius,
                    as she ought to be, over every department of domestic comfort? her cares
                    lightened by participation with her affectionate daughters, her mind relieved of
                    its burdens by their watchful love, herself arrayed in the best attire, as a
                    badge of her retirement from active duty, and smiling as the steps of time glide
                    past her, because she knows that younger feet are walking in her own sweet ways
                    of pleasantness and peace.
                Is this the picture presented in the present day by the far-famed homes of
                    England? Do we not rather find the mother, the faithful and time-worn mother of the family, not only the moving spring of
                    all domestic management, but the actual working power, by which every household
                    plan is carried into practical effect. I refer of course to cases where
                    domestics are few, and pecuniary means not over-abundant, where we see the
                    mother hastening with anxious solicitude to answer every call from every member
                    of the family; as if her part in the duties of life was not only to have waited
                    upon her children in infancy, but to conduct them to an easy and luxurious old
                    age; in short, to spare their feet from walking, their hands from labour, and
                    their heads from thought.
                I know that it is mistaken kindness in the mother to allow herself
                    thus to become a household drudge. I know also that young ladies are easily
                    satisfied with what appears to them a reasonable excuse, that “mamma prefers
                    doing all these things herself,” that she is such a dear kind soul, they would
                    not rob her even of the merit of mending their own garments.” But let
                    me ask how often she prefers doing these things herself, simply because of their
                    unwillingness to do them; and how their ungracious manner, when they have been
                    asked to relieve her, has wounded her patient spirit, and rendered it less
                    irksome to her to do the hardest manual labour, than to ask them again? Let me remind them also, that there is a
                    habit of doing things so awkwardly, that you will not be likely to be called
                    upon for your services a second time; and whether by accident or design, I will
                    not presume to say, but some young ladies certainly appear to be great adepts in
                    this method of performing their duties.
                It is a most painful spectacle, in families where the mother is the drudge, to
                    see the daughters elegantly dressed, reclining at their ease, with their
                    drawing, their music, their fancy-work, and their light reading; beguiling
                    themselves of the lapse of hours, days, and weeks, and never dreaming of their
                    responsibilities; but, as a necessary consequence of the neglect of duty,
                    growing weary of their useless lives, laying hold of every newly invented
                    stimulant to rouse their drooping energies, and blaming their fate, when they
                    dare not blame their God, for having placed them where they are.
                These individuals will often tell you with an air of affected compassion—for who
                    can believe it real?—that “poor dear mamma is working herself to death.” Yet no
                    sooner do you propose that they should assist her, than they declare she is
                    quite in her element—in, short, that she would never be happy if she
                    had only half as much to do.
                
                I have before observed, that it is not difficult to ascertain, on entering a
                    family, whether the female members of it are, or are not actuated by habits of
                    kindness and consideration; and in no instance is it more easily detected, than
                    in the behaviour of the daughters to their mother. We have probably all seen
                    elegant and accomplished young ladies doing the honours of the house to their
                    guests, by spreading before them that lavish profusion of books and pictures,
                    with which every table of every drawing-room is, in these modern times, adorned.
                    We have heard them expatiate with taste and enthusiasm upon the works of art,
                    upon the beauties of foreign scenery, and the delights of travelling abroad;
                    while the mother is simultaneously engaged in superintending the management of
                    the viands about to be spread before the company, or in placing the last leaf of
                    garniture around the dessert, upon which her daughters have never condescended
                    to bestow a thought.
                It is easy, in these cases, to see by the anxious and perturbed appearance of the
                    mistress of the house, when she does at last appear, that she has had no
                    assistance, but that which a very limited number of domestics could render,
                    behind the scenes; that every variety of the repast which her guests are pressed
                    to partake of, has cost her both trouble to
                    invent and labour to prepare; and we feel that we are regaling ourselves too
                    much at her expense.
                There is a painful contrast between the care and anxiety depicted on her brow,
                    and the indifference—the real or pretended ignorance with which the young ladies
                    speak, when it is absolutely necessary, of any of those culinary compositions
                    which they regard as belonging exclusively to the department of mothers and
                    servants. If by any possible mischance, the good woman alludes to the flavour of
                    her compounds, wishing, purely for the sake of her guests, that she had added a
                    little more of the salt, or the cinnamon,—indications of nausea, accompanied by
                    symptoms of indignation and disgust, immediately manifest themselves amongst the
                    young ladies, and they really wonder what mamma will be absurd enough to say
                    next.
                It is in such families as this, not only on days of leisure, but on days when
                    extra services are sure to be wanted in the home department, that the daughters
                    always find some pressing call upon their attention out of doors. They have
                    their morning calls to make; and there is that mysterious shopping to attend to,
                    that never has an end. Indeed, one would almost think, from the frequency with
                    which they resort to some of the most 
                        fashion-
                        fashionable
                     able shops in town, that each of
                    these young ladies had a peculiar taste for the mode of life prevailing in this
                    particular sphere of exertion, were it not for the indignation she manifests at
                    the remotest hint upon the duty of assisting her father in his.
                It is astonishing how duties out of doors accumulate upon persons who are glad of
                    any excuse to escape from those at home. No one can deny the necessity they are
                    under of pursuing that course of mental improvement begun at school; and there
                    are lectures on every science to be attended, borrowed books to be returned, and
                    little coteries of studious young people, to join in their morning classes.
                It is also curious to observe that these young ladies who can with difficulty be
                    induced to move about in their own homes, even to spare their mother's weary
                    feet, who esteem it an act of oppression in her to send them to the highest
                    apartment of the house, and of degradation in themselves, to descend to the
                    lowest,—it is curious to observe how these regard themselves as under an
                    absolute necessity to walk out every day for their health, and how they choose
                    that precise time for walking, when their mothers are most busy, and their
                    domestic peace, by a natural consequence, most likely to be invaded.
                
                I would touch, with extreme delicacy, upon another branch of public occupation,
                    because I believe it to be entered upon, in innumerable instances, with feelings
                    which do honour to humanity, and to that religion, under whose influence alone,
                    such avocations can be faithfully carried on. But I must confess, there appears
                    to me some ground to fear, that the amusement of doing public good, the
                    excitement it produces, and especially the exemption it purchases from domestic
                    requirements, has something to do with the zeal evinced by some young females to
                    be employed as instruments in the dissemination of religious knowledge, and the
                    augmentation of funds appropriated to benevolent uses.
                Fearing, however, lest what might assume even the faintest colouring of
                    uncharitableness, should fall from my pen on this delicate but most important
                    subject, I will leave it with the individuals thus engaged, as fitter for their
                    consideration, than for my remark. The world takes cognizance of their actions,
                    and it is perhaps occasionally too lavish in its bestowment of their praises.
                    But the world is a false friend, for it can applaud where there is little real
                    merit, and condemn where there ought to be no blame.
                Let not the really faithful and sincere be hurt
                    by these insinuations. Their cause is beyond the penetration of man, and their
                    real springs of action are known, where alone they can be truly estimated,—where
                    alone they can meet with their just reward.
                How different from the feelings called forth by habits such as I have just
                    described, are those with which we take up our abode in a family, where we know
                    that the morning sun has risen upon daughters, who meet its early beams with the
                    cheerful determination, that whatever may be the business of the day, their
                    hands, and not their mother's, shall do the actual work. Her experience, and her
                    ever-guiding judgment, may direct their labours; but she who has so often toiled
                    and watched for them, shall at least enjoy another opportunity of seeing how
                    gladly and how richly they can repay the debt. The first thought that occupies
                    their mind, is, how to guard her precious health. They meet her in the morning
                    with affectionate solicitude, and look to see if her cheek has become less pale;
                    whether her smile is languid, or cheerful—her step weary, or light.
                I must again repeat, that one of the surest tests of true disinterested love, is
                    this readiness to detect indisposition. Persons who are in the habit of
                    cherishing antipathies, seldom believe in the minor ailments of those they dislike. These facts render it
                    the more surprising, that daughters should not always see the
                    symptoms of exhausted strength, which too frequently manifest themselves in
                    industrious and care-taking mothers; that they should not watch with the
                    tenderest anxiety the slightest indication of their valuable health being liable
                    to decay. Yet so it is, that the mother of a family, who cares for every ailment
                    in her household, is the last to be cared for herself, except in cases affording
                    those beautiful exemplifications of filial duty, to which allusion has just been
                    made.
                With daughters who are sensible of the strong claims of a mother's love, no care
                    can be too great, no solicitude too tender, to bestow upon that beloved parent.
                    They know, that if deprived of this friend of their infancy—this guide of their
                    erring feet—the world will be comparatively poor to them: and as the miser
                    guards his hoarded treasure, they guard the life, for which that world would be
                    incapable of supplying a substitute.
                There are few subjects of contemplation more melancholy, than the waste of human
                    love which the aspect of this world presents—of deep, tender, untiring,
                    disinterested love, bestowed in such a manner as meets no adequate return; and
                    what must be the harvest gathered in, to a mother's faithful bosom, when she finds that she has reared up
                    children who are too refined to share her humble cares, too learned and too
                    clever to waste their talents on a sphere of thought and action like her own,
                    and too much engaged in the pursuit of intellectual attainments, even to think
                    of her!
                Yet to whom do we look for consolation when the blight of sickness or sorrow
                    falls upon our earthly peace, but to a mother! And who but a mother is invited
                    to partake of our afflictions or our trials? If the stigma of worldly
                    degradation falls upon us, we fly to a mother's love for that mantle of charity
                    which is denied elsewhere. With more honoured and distinguished associates, we
                    may have smiled away the golden hours of life's young prime; but the bitter
                    tears of experience are wept upon a mother's bosom. We keep for our summer
                    friends the amusing story, the brilliant witticism, or the intellectual
                    discourse; but we tell to a mother's ear the tale of our distress, and the
                    history of our wrongs. For all that belongs to the weakness and the wants of
                    humanity, a mother's affection is sorely taxed; why then should not daughters
                    have the noble feeling to say before the world, and to let their actions speak
                    the same language,—“This is my earliest, and my best friend.”
                
                It is true, the mother may be far behind the daughter in the accomplishments of
                    modern education; she may, perhaps, occasionally betray her ignorance of polite
                    literature, or her want of acquaintance with the customs of polished society.
                    But how can this in any way affect the debt of obligation existing between her
                    daughter and herself? or how can it lessen the validity of her claim to
                    gratitude for services received, and esteem for the faithfulness with which
                    those services have been performed?
                Let us not believe of the young ladies of the present day that they
                        can for any lengthened period, allow the march of mind to
                    outrun the growth of their kindly feelings. Let us rather hope the time is
                    coming when they will exhibit to the world that beautiful exemplification of
                    true dignity—a high degree of intellectual culture rendered conducive to the
                    happiness of those who claim their deepest gratitude and their tenderest
                    affection.
                The next view we propose to take of the domestic habits of the women of this
                    favoured country, is that of their behaviour in the relation between daughters
                    and fathers.
                The affection existing between fathers and daughters, is a favourite theme with
                    writers both of romance and reality; and the
                    familiar walks of life, we doubt not, are rich in instances of this peculiar
                    kind of affection, existing in a lovely, and most unquestionable form. Still
                    there are points of view in which this subject, as illustrated by the customs of
                    society in the present day, cannot be contemplated without pain.
                I have often had occasion to speak of the duties of women towards their fathers,
                    brothers, husbands, and sons, when engaged in the active pursuits of trade; and
                    there is an anomaly presented by society of this class in England, which I am
                    particularly anxious to point out to the rising generation.
                There are vast numbers of worthy and industrious men, not only of the young and
                    the middle-aged, but of those who are sinking into the vale of years, who spend
                    almost the whole of their waking lives in scenes and occupations, from which
                    almost everything in the shape of enjoyment must necessarily be shut out.
                In looking into the shops, the warehouses, the offices, and the counting-houses,
                    of our commercial and manufacturing towns, we are struck with the destitution of
                    comfort which everywhere prevails, and we ask,—“Are these the abodes of
                    free-born, independent men?”
                
                I should be sorry to be weak enough to suppose that an honest and industrious man
                    may not be just as happy when he treads on boards, as when be treads on Turkey
                    carpets; yet again, when we begin the early day with such individuals, and see
                    what their occupations actually are, from nine in the morning, often until late
                    in the afternoon or evening, for weeks, and months, and years, with scarcely any
                    respite or relaxation, we naturally ask how are the wives and daughters of these
                    men employed? For surely if there be a necessity for the father of the family to
                    be situated thus, the kinder and more disinterested members of his household
                    must be dwelling in abodes even more uncongenial and revolting than these. It is
                    but reasonable to expect that we should find them in apartments less luxurious
                    in their furniture, with windows less pervious to the light of day, their
                    persons perched upon harder stools, and altogether accommodated in an inferior
                    manner. And this we are led to expect, simply because it is difficult to believe
                    of generous-hearted women, that they would be willing to enjoy indulgences
                    purchased at the sacrifice of the comfort of those they love, and by the
                    degradation of those whom they look up to as their superiors.
                
                Perhaps we are told that to man it is no sacriflee to spend his life in these
                    dungeon-like apartments, shut in from the pure air, and compelled to deal with
                    the extreme minutiæ of what is neither interesting nor dignified in itself—that
                    he regards not these trifling inconveniences, that he is accustomed to them, and
                    that they are what the world esteems as manly and befitting; yet on being
                    invited to pay our respects to the ladies of the family, we find ourselves
                    transported into a scene so entirely different from that of his daily toil, that
                    we are led to exclaim,—“How opposite must be the tastes of men and women in this
                    sphere of life, in England!” A little more acquaintance with their domestic
                    habits, however, enables us to discover that their tastes are not so different
                    as their circumstances, and that the cares, the anxieties, and the actual
                    labour, which the man is undergoing every day, are placing him on a very
                    different footing, with regard to personal comfort, from the females of his
                    household.
                And how do the women strive to soothe these cares, to relieve these anxieties,
                    and to lighten these labours? Do they not often make their own personal expenses
                    extend to the extreme limit that his means will afford? Do they not dress, and
                    visit, receive visiters, and practise all
                    those elegant accomplishments, which their father's exertions have been taxed to
                    pay for?
                I know that the blame does not always rest with the female members of the family,
                    but that men, especially when they first marry, are often pleased to behold
                    their wives arrayed in the most costly habiliments which their means can
                    procure; in addition to this, they believe that their interest in the world is
                    advanced by keeping up a certain degree of costly display, both in dress and
                    furniture. As time advances, however, and their spirits grow less buoyant under
                    the pressure of accumulated cares, especially if these cares have been
                    unproductive of so golden a harvest as they had anticipated, and when daughters
                    are growing up to double—nay, to treble their mother's expenditure, by adding
                    all the imagined essentials of modern refinement; the father then perceives,
                    perhaps too late to retrieve his ruined circumstances, the error into which he
                    has been led; and fain would he then, in the midst of his bitter regrets,
                    persuade his daughters to begin to think and act upon different principles, from
                    those which he has himself so thoughtlessly instilled.
                Perhaps the father is sinking into the vale of years, his spirit broken, and some
                    of the growing infirmities of age stealing insidiously upon him. His manly figure begins to stoop, his eye grows dim,
                    and he comes home weary from his daily labour. What a melancholy picture is
                    presented by the image of such a man going forth in public, with his gaily and
                    expensively-dressed daughters fluttering by his side!
                Nor is this all. Let us follow them home. He rises early, wearied and worn as he
                    is, and, snatching a hasty breakfast before his daughters have come down, goes
                    forth to his daily avocations, leaving them to their morning calls, light
                    reading, and fancy-work, until his return. At the close of the day, his step is
                    again heard on the threshhold. He has begun to feel that the walk is too much
                    for him. Conveyances, in countless numbers, have passed him on his way, but
                    these are not times for him to afford the luxury of riding, for a rival
                    tradesman has just opened a tempting establishment in the neighbourhood of his
                    own, and the evils of competition are destroying half his gains. With a jaded
                    look and feeble step, then, he enters his home. He wipes the gathering dew from
                    his wrinkled forehead, sits down with a sigh almost amounting to a groan of
                    despondency, and then looks round upon the well-furnished parlour, where the
                    ladies of his family spend their idle hours.
                
                We will not libel the daughters so far as to say, they are guilty of neglect in
                    not inviting him to partake of his evening meal. They may even press their
                    kisses on his cheek, and express their welcome in the warmest terms. Supposing
                    they have done all this, and that he is beginning to feel invigorated and
                    refreshed, perhaps revived a little in his spirit by this evidence of their
                    affection, at length he smiles; and that smile has been eagerly watched for, as
                    the indication that his heart is warming into generosity.
                Now is the auspicious time: “Papa, dear, have you ever thought again of the silk
                    cloaks you promised us, as soon as Mr. Moody's bill was paid? And Emma wants a
                    velvet bonnet this winter. And Papa, dear, where did you say we could get the
                    best satin shoes?” “My love,” says the wife, in a graver, and more important
                    tone, “these poor girls are sadly in want of drawing-paper—indeed, of pencils,
                    and of every thing belonging to their drawing; for you know it is of no use
                    having a master to teach them, unless we provide them with the necessary
                    materials. And Isabella's music—I was positively ashamed to hear her play those
                    old pieces again at Mrs. Melburn's last night.”
                We have seen pictures of birds of prey hovering
                    about their dying victim; but I doubt whether a still more repulsive and
                    melancholy picture might not be made, of a man of business, in the decline of
                    life, when he naturally asks for repose, spurred and goaded into fresh
                    exertions, by the artificial wants and insatiable demands of his wife and
                    daughters.
                The root of the evil, I grant to be, not so much in the hard hearts of the
                    individuals here described, as in the system of false refinement which now
                    prevails in this country. But whatever the cause or its remedy may be, those
                    will be happy days for England, when her noble-minded women, despite the
                    prejudices of early education, shall stand forth before the world, and show that
                    they dare to be dutiful daughters rather than ladies of fashion; and that the
                    principles of integrity, generosity, and natural feeling, have taught them never
                    to wish for enjoyment purchased by the sacrifice of a father's health, or a
                    husband's peace.
                I know not whether it often occurs to the young, or only to those whose
                    experience has been of longer duration, to make this observation upon human
                    nature—that it is not intentional offence, or
                        intentional injury, which always inflicts the severest pain. A
                    mother who, by her ill-judged indulgence, fosters in her child a selfish and 
                        domi-
                        domineering
                     neering temper, and thus renders
                    such evil dispositions identified with the very nature of that child, so that it
                    is a stranger to any other principles of action, is as much hurt, when in after
                    life, her child is selfish and domineering towards herself, as if he actually
                    departed from his accustomed line of conduct, for the purpose of being pointedly
                    unkind to her. In the same way, the father who has brought up his family in
                    habits of extravagance, when he feels the tide of prosperity turning against
                    him, forgets that those habits are necessarily stronger than his reasoning, and
                    is wounded to the soul to think that his daughters are not more considerate.
                    Upon the same principle of groundless expectation, we often see well-meaning but
                    injudicious parents taking extreme pains to guard their children against one
                    particular error in conduct, or one species of vice, yet neglecting to lay that
                    only sure foundation of moral conduct which is to be found in religious
                    principle; and these, again, are shocked to find, as their children advance in
                    life, that all their endeavours have been unproductive of the desired result.
                    Nor must I, while pointing out errors in the behaviour of children towards their
                    parents, omit to observe, that if parents would be more solicitous to instil
                    into their minds the importance of relative and social duties faithfully performed, instead of captiously reproving them for
                    every deviation from the strict line of these duties, they would find themselves
                    more happy in their families, more tenderly watched over in sickness and
                    sorrow—more cherished and revered in the decline of life.
                Still, though the fault may, in some cases, have been originally with the
                    parents, there is little excuse for daughters who are of age to think and act
                    for themselves. Habit, we know, is proverbially accounted second nature; but we
                    know also, that even our first nature is capable of being changed.
                He who has become subject to a painful and dangerous disease, through the neglect
                    or mismanagement of those who had the care of him in early life, does not
                    content himself with saying it was the maltreatment of his nurse that brought
                    upon him this calamity. If the disease admits of remedy, if it even admits of
                    alleviation, he is as earnest in seeking out and applying the proper means of
                    relief, as if he had been the sole cause of his own affliction. And shall we
                    confine our powers of reasoning rightly, and acting promptly, to the promotion
                    of the benefit of the body, and leave the immortal mind to suffer for eternity,
                    without applying such remedies as are provided for its use?
                
                Whether the evil be in the original taint of our own nature, or in the same
                    nature inherent in another form, and operating upon us through the medium of
                    injudicious treatment, we stand in precisely the same position with regard to
                    moral responsibility, and accountability to the Searcher of all human
                    hearts.
                It is right that the tender sympathy of our friends should be excited, when we
                    tell them, that the faults for which they blame us, were fostered and encouraged
                    by the mistaken judgment of our parents in early life; but there is a tribunal
                    at which this plea will be of little avail, if, while the means of reformation
                    are yet within our reach, we suffer such habits to strengthen and establish
                    themselves as parts of our character; and I would earnestly recommend to the
                    young women of England, that they should rouse themselves, and act upon the
                    first conviction, that the advantages resulting from what is called a finished
                    education, are but so many additional talents lent them, for employment in the
                    service of that gracious Father, who has charged his children with the keeping
                    of each other's happiness; and who, when he instituted the parental bond, and
                    filled the mother's heart with love, and touched with tenderness the father's
                    firmer soul, was pleased to appoint them after
                    years of weakness, suffering, and infirmity, when their children would be able
                    to enjoy the holy privilege of conducting their feeble steps, in peace and
                    safety, towards the close of their earthly pilgrimage.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER X.
                DOMESTIC HABITS—CONSIDERATION AND KINDNESS.
                THAT branch of the subject upon which I am now entering, being one of so
                    much importance in the sum of human happiness, as scarcely to admit of
                    comparison with any other, it might be expected that I should especially direct
                    the attention of the reader to the duties of consideration and kindness in the
                    married state, by entering into the minutiæ of its especial requirements, and
                    recommending them, with all the earnestness of emphatic detail, to the serious
                    consideration of the women of England. Happy indeed should I be to do this, did
                    I not feel that, at the same time, I should be touching upon a theme too
                    delicate for the handling of an ordinary pen, and venturing beyond that veil,
                    which the sacredness of such a connexion is calculated to draw over all that is
                    extreme in the happiness or misery of human life.
                
                I shall therefore glance only upon those points which are most obvious to the eye
                    of a third party; and in doing this, it will be found, that many of the remarks
                    I have made upon the behaviour of daughters to their fathers, are equally
                    applicable to that of wives towards their husbands. There is, however, this
                    great difference—the connexion existing between married people is almost
                    invariably a matter of choice. A daughter may, sometimes, imagine herself
                    excused, by supposing that her father is too uncongenial in mind and character,
                    for her to owe him much in the way of companionship. She may think his manners
                    vulgar, and believe that if she had a father who was a gentleman, she would be
                    more attentive and considerate to him: but her husband cannot have married her
                    without her own consent; and therefore the engagement she has voluntarily
                    entered into, must be to fulfil the duties of a wife to him as he
                        is, not as she could have wished or imagined him to be.
                These considerations lead me to a view of the subject which I have often been
                    compelled to take with deep regret, but which I fear no human pen, and still
                    less mine, will be able to change—it is the false system of behaviour kept up
                    between those who are about to enter into the 
                        rela-
                        relation
                     tion of marriage; so that when they
                    settle down upon the true basis of their own characters, and appear to each
                    other what they actually are, the difference is sometimes so great, as almost to
                    justify the inquiry, whether the individual can really be the same.
                I presume not to expatiate upon that process denominated courtship, as it is
                    frequently carried on by men. I venture not to accuse them of injustice, in
                    cherishing, in their early intercourse with the object of their choice, the very
                    faults which they afterwards complain of in the wife. My chief solicitude is for
                    my own sex, that they should not only be faithful after marriage, but upright
                    and sincere before; and that they should scorn to engage a lover, by little acts
                    of consideration and kindness, which they are not prepared to practise even more
                    willingly towards the husband.
                I have known cases in which a kind-hearted woman would have esteemed herself
                    robbed of a privilege, if her lover had asked any other person than herself so
                    much as to mend his glove. Yet is it not possible for the same woman, two years
                    after marriage, to say—“My sister, or my cousin, will do that for you. I am too
                    busy now.”
                Nor is it the act alone, but the manner in which the act is done, that conveys a
                    false impression of what will be the manner of
                    that woman after marriage. I charge no one with intentional
                    deception. The very expression of the countenance is that of real and intense
                    enjoyment, while the act of kindness is performed. All I regret is, that the
                    same expression of countenance should not always accompany the same performance
                    in the wife. Women of acute sensibility must feel the loss of personal
                    attractions, when time begins to tell upon their youthful charms. But, oh! that
                    they would learn by the warning of others, rather than by their own experience,
                    that it is more frequently the want of this expression of cheerful, genuine,
                    disinterested kindness, than the want of youthful beauty, that alienates their
                    husbands' love, and makes them objects of indifference, or worse.
                The cultivation of acquaintance before marriage, with a view to that connexion
                    taking place, for the most part goes but a very little way towards the knowledge
                    of real character. The parties usually meet in the hey-day of inexperienced
                    youth; and while they exult in the unclouded sunshine of life, their mutual
                    endeavours to please, are rewarded by an equal willingness to be pleased. The
                    woman, especially, is placed in a situation highly calculated to excite the
                    greatest possible degree of complacency. She is treated by a being upon whom she depends, and he most probably her
                    superior, as if she was incapable of error, and guiltless of a single fault.
                    Perhaps she warns him of his mistake, speaks of her own defects, and assures him
                    that she is not the angelic creature he supposes her to be; but she does all
                    this with so sweet a grace, and looks all the while so pleased to be
                    contradicted, that her information goes for nothing; and we are by no means
                    assured that she is not better satisfied it should be so.
                If, for instance, she really wishes him to know that her temper is naturally bad,
                    why is she invariably so mild, and bland, and conciliating in his presence? If
                    she wishes him to believe that she has a mind not capable of entering fully into
                    the interest of his favourite books, and the subjects of his favourite
                    discourse, why does she appear to listen so attentively when he
                    reads, and ask so many questions calculated to draw him out into conversation?
                    If she wishes him to suppose that she is not always a lively and
                    agreeable companion, why does she not occasionally assume the tone and manner so
                    familiar to her family at home—answer him shortly, hang down her head, and mope
                    away the evening when he is near her? If she really wishes him to believe her,
                    when she tells him that she is but ill-informed, and wanting in judgment; why, when he talks with her, does she take
                    so much pains to express opinions generally believed to be correct, and
                    especially such as coincide with his own? If she occasionally acts from caprice,
                    and really wishes him to know that she does so, to the injury of the comfort of
                    those around her; why, whenever she practises in this way upon him, does she win
                    him back again, and soothe his feelings with redoubled kindness, and additional
                    solicitude to please.
                Perhaps she will tell me she acts in this manner, because it would be unamiable
                    and ungenerous to do otherwise. To which I answer, If it be unamiable and
                    ungenerous to the lover, how much more so must it be to the husband? I find no
                    fault with the sweetness, the irresistible charm of her behaviour before
                    marriage. It is no more than we ought to practise towards those
                    whose happiness is bound up with ours. The falling off afterwards is what I
                    regard as so much to be deplored in the character of woman; for wherever this is
                    observed, it seems to indicate that her mind has been low enough to be
                    influenced by a desire of establishing herself in an eligible home, and escaping
                    the stigma foolishly attached to the situation of an old maid.
                I have devoted an earlier chapter in this work
                    to the consideration of dress and manners; but I have omitted one of the most
                    striking points of view in which these subjects can be regarded,—the different
                    characters they sometimes assume before, and after marriage.
                When a young lady dresses with a view to general approbation, she is studiously
                    solicitous to observe, what she believes to be, the rules of good taste; and
                    more especially, if a gentleman, whose favourable opinion she values, evinces
                    any decided symptoms of becoming her admirer. She then meets him with her hair
                    arranged in the most becoming style; with the neat shoe, and pure-white gloves,
                    which she has heard him commend in others, with the pale scarf, the
                    quiet-coloured robe, and with the general aspect of her costume accommodated to
                    his taste. He cannot but observe this regard to his wishes, and he notes it down
                    as a proof of amiable temperament, as well as sympathy of habitual feeling.
                    Auguring well for his future happiness with a woman, who even in matters of such
                    trifling moment is willing to make his wish her law, he prevails upon her at
                    last to crown that happiness by the bestowment of her hand.
                In the course of three years, we look in upon this couple in the home they are
                    sharing together. We suppose the lady to be
                    the same, yet cannot feel quite sure, her whole appearance is so changed. The
                    hair that used to be so carefully braided, or so gracefully curled, is now
                    allowed to wander in dishevelled tresses, or swept away from a brow, whose
                    defects it was wont to cover. There is a forlornness in her whole appearance, as
                    if she had, not, as formerly, any worthy object for which to study these
                    secondary points of beauty; and we inwardly exclaim how the taste of her husband
                    must have changed, to allow him to be pleased with what is so entirely the
                    opposite of his original choice. On a second observation, however, we ask
                    whether he actually is pleased, for there is nothing like
                    satisfaction in the look with which he turns away from the unbecoming cap, the
                    soiled kerchief, and the neglected aspect of the partner of his life.
                If married women, who allow themselves to fall into that state of moral
                    degradation, which such an appearance indicates, feel pained at symptoms of
                    estrangement in their husband's affections, they must at least be satisfied to
                    endure the consequences of their own want of consideration, without sympathy or
                    commiseration. They may, perhaps, feel disposed to say their punishment is too
                    severe for such a fault. They love their husbands as faithfully as ever, and expected from them a love
                    that would have been more faithful in return, than to be shaken by any change in
                    mere personal appearance. But let me tell them, that the change which owes its
                    existence to our own fault, has a totally different effect upon the feelings of
                    a friend, from that which is the consequence of our misfortine; and one of the
                    most bitter and repulsive thoughts that can be made to rankle in a husband's
                    bosom, is, that his wife should only have deemed it necessary to charm his eye,
                    until she had obtained his hand; and that, through the whole of his after life,
                    he must look in vain for the exercise of that kind consideration in consulting
                    his tastes and wishes, that used to lend so sweet a charm to the season of
                    youthful intercourse.
                It is a subject well calculated to inspire the most serious regret, that men
                    should practise, throughout the season of courtship, that system of
                    indiscriminate flattery which lulls the better judgment of woman into a belief
                    that she must of necessity be delightful to him—delightful, faults and all—nay,
                    what is infinitely worse than this, into a secret suspicion, that the faults
                    which her female friends have been accustomed to point out, have no existence in
                    reality, and that to one who knows and loves her better, she must appear in her naturally amiable and attractive
                    character.—Could she be persuaded, on that important day, when she is led home
                    from the altar, adorned, attended upon, and almost worshipped—could she be
                    persuaded to cast one impartial glance into her own heart, she would see that
                    the treasure she was bestowing, had many drawbacks from its value, and that all
                    the happiness it was in her power to confer, must necessarily, from the nature
                    or that heart, be accompanied with some alloy.
                “Alas!” she would say, after this examination, “he knows me not. Time will reveal
                    to him my secretly cherished faults.” And when this conviction was confirmed
                    through the days and years of her after life, she would esteem it but a small
                    sacrifice of time and patience to endeavour to render herself personally
                    attractive to him. Nay, so grateful would she feel for his charitable
                    forgiveness, that when the evil dispositions inherent in her nature were thrown
                    into more 
                        glarihg
                        glaring
                     light, she would esteem it a privilege to be able by the simplest
                    means to convince him, that, with all her faults, she was not so guilty of a
                    disregard to his wishes, as to refuse in these minor points to conform her
                    habits to his taste.
                Many of the remarks into which I have been led by a consideration of the subject
                    of dress, are equally applicable to that of
                    manner, as relates to its connexion with social and domestic happiness before
                    and after marriage. We are all aware that neither beauty, nor personal
                    adornment, nor the most brilliant conversation, can be rendered altogether
                    charming to any individual, without the accompaniment of a peculiar kind of
                    manner, by which that individual is made to feel that he partakes in the
                    pleasant thoughts, and kind feelings, of the party whose object it is to
                    please.
                Women who possess the tact, to know exactly how to give pleasure,
                    are peculiarly skilled in those earnest looks, and cheerful smiles, and animated
                    responses, which constitute more than half the charm of society. We sometimes
                    see, in social evening circles, the countenance of an intelligent young lady
                    lighted up with such a look of deep and glowing interest, as to render her
                    perfectly beautiful, during the time she is addressed by a distinguished friend,
                    or even an attractive stranger.
                I will not say that the same expression is not always worn by the same individual
                    at the domestic hearth, when she listens to the conversation of her husband. I
                    will not so far libel my countrywomen, because I know that there are noble and
                    admirable instances of women who are too
                    diffident and too simple-hearted to study how to shine in public, who yet, from
                    the intensity of their own feelings, the brilliance of their own powers of
                    perception, and the deep delight of listening to the gentle tones of a beloved
                    voice, when it speaks at once to their understanding and their hearts.—I know
                    that such women do wear an aspect of almost spiritual beauty, and speak and act
                    with an almost superhuman grace, when no eye beholds them but that which is most
                    familiar, and which is destined to look upon the same path of life with
                    theirs.
                After acknowledging these instances, I must suppose a case; and for the sake of
                    argument imagine what would be the feelings of a husband, who, in mixed society,
                    should see his wife the centre of an animated group—pleased herself, and giving
                    pleasure to all around her—the expression of intense interest depicted on her
                    countenance, and mingled with an apprehension so lively and vivid, as almost to
                    amount to presentiment of every probable turn in the discourse; her eyes lighted
                    up with animation, and her cheeks dimpled over with the play of sunny
                    smiles—what would be the feelings of a husband who should have marked all this,
                    and when at his own fireside he felt the want of pleasant converse to beguile
                    the winter's 
                        even-
                        evening
                     ing of its length, should be
                    answered by that peculiar tone of voice, that depression of countenance, and
                    that forbidding manner, which are more powerful in imposing silence than the
                    most imperative command?
                In fact, there is a manner all-powerful in its influence upon domestic happiness,
                    in which there seems to be embodied a spirit of evil too subtile for detection,
                    and too indefinite to be described by any name. It is not precisely a sullen
                    manner, nor, in its strictest sense, a repulsive manner: for the individual who
                    adopts it may be perfectly civil all the while. It does not consist in pointed
                    insult, or, indeed, in any thing pointed. It conveys no reproach, nor suffers
                    the party upon whom it operates to suppose that redress is the thing desired. It
                    invites no explanation, and makes no complaint. Its only visible characteristic
                    is, that the eye is never raised to gaze upon its object, but invariably
                    directed past it, as if that object had no ubiquity—in short, had no existence,
                    and was not required to have any.
                This is the manner I should describe as most expressive of natural antipathy
                    without the energy of active dislike; and yet this manner, as before stated, is
                    so potent in its influence, that it seems to
                    lay, as it were, an unseen axe at the root of all domestic confidence; and,
                    difficult as it must necessarily be for a woman to maintain this manner, there
                    have been instances in which it has destroyed a husband's peace, without
                    affording him even the satisfaction of any definite cause of complaint. There
                    are degrees of the same manner practised every day in all classes of society,
                    but never without a baneful effect, in poisoning our kindly feelings, and
                    decreasing the sum of human happiness.
                We are all too much disposed to put on what I would describe as company-manners.
                    Not only are our best dresses reserved for our visiters, but our best behaviour
                    too. I have often been struck with the bland smiles that have been put on in
                    welcoming guests, and the appearance of extreme interest with which such guests
                    have been listened to; when, five minutes after their departure, the same
                    subject having been taken up by some unfortunate member of the family, no
                    interest whatever has been elicited, no smile awakened, and scarcely so much as
                    a patient and respectful answer drawn forth. I have observed, also, with what
                    forbearance the absurdities of a stranger have been endured: the twice-told
                    tale, when begun again in company, has apparently been as fresh and entertaining
                        as the first time it was heard. The folly
                    of ignorance has then had no power to disgust, nor the impertinence of curiosity
                    to offend.
                When I have marked all this, I have thought, If we could but carry away our
                    company-smiles to the home fireside, speak always in the gentle and persuasive
                    tones made use of in the evening party, and move along the domestic walk with
                    that suavity of manner which characterises our intercourse with what is called
                    society,—how pleasant would those homes become to the friends who look for their
                    hours of refreshment and relaxation there; and how seldom should we have to
                    complain of our companionship being neglected for that of more brilliant circles
                    and more interesting scenes!
                In writing on the subject of consideration and kindness before and after
                    marriage, I have purposely confined my remarks to a very slight and superficial
                    view of the subject. The world that lies beyond, I cannot regard as within the
                    province of my pen—I might almost say, within the province of any pen: for such
                    is the difference in human character, and in the circumstances by which
                    character is developed, that it would scarcely be possible to speak definitely
                    of a line of conduct by which the lives of any two married women could properly be regulated, because such
                    conduct must bear strict reference to the habits and temperament of the husband,
                    whose peculiarities of character would have to be taken into account.
                I must therefore be satisfied to recommend this wide and important field of
                    contemplation to the serious attention and earnest solicitude of my
                    countrywomen; reminding them, only, before we leave this subject, that if, in
                    the first instance, they are induced by selfish feeling to consult their
                    immediate interest or convenience, they are, in a secondary manner, undermining
                    their own happiness by failing to consult that of the being whose destiny is
                    linked with theirs.
                What pen can describe the wretchedness of that woman, who finds herself doomed to
                    live unloved; and to whom can she look for confidence and affection, if shut out
                    from the natural sources of enjoyment at home? There is no loneliness—there can
                    be none, in all the waste or peopled deserts of this world, bearing the
                    slightest comparison with that of an unloved wife? She stands amidst her family
                    like a living statue amongst the marble memorials of the dead—instinct with
                    life, yet paralyzed with death—the burning tide of natural feeling circling
                    round her heart—the thousand channels frozen,
                    through which that feeling ought to flow.
                So pitiable, so utterly destitute of consolation is this state, to which many
                    women have reduced themselves by mere carelessness of the common and familiar
                    means of giving pleasure, that I must be pardoned for writing on this subject
                    with more earnestness than the minuteness of its detail would seem to warrant.
                    We may set off in life with high notions of loving, and of being loved, in exact
                    proportion to meritorious desert, as exemplified in great and noble deeds. But
                    on a closer and more experimental view of human life, we find that affection is
                    more dependent upon the minutiæ of every-day existence; and that there is a
                    greater sum of affection really lost, by filtering away through the failure of
                    seeming trifles, than by the shock of great events.
                We are apt also to deceive ourselves with regard to the revival of affection
                    after its decay. Much may be done to restore equanimity of mind, to obtain
                    forgiveness, and to be reinstated in esteem; but I am inclined to think, that
                    when once the bloom of love is gone—when it has been brushed away by too rude or
                    too careless a hand, it would be as vain to attempt to restore it, as to raise
                    again the blighted flower, or give wings to
                    the butterfly which the storm had beaten down.
                How important is it, then, that women should guard, with the most scrupulous
                    attention, this treasure of their hearts,—this blessing of their homes; and
                    since we are so constituted, that trifles make the sum of human happiness, that
                    they should lose no opportunity of turning these trifles to the best
                    account.
                Besides these considerations, there is one awful and alarming fact connected with
                    this subject, which ought to be indelibly impressed upon our minds; it is, that
                    we have but a short time, it may be but a very short time, allowed
                    us for promoting the comfort or the happiness of our fellow-creatures. Even if
                    we ourselves are spared to reach the widest range of human existence, how few of
                    those we love will number half that length of years! Even the hand that is
                    clasped in ours, the eyes that reflect the intelligence of our souls, and the
                    heart that beats an echo to every pulse we feel, may be cold and motionless
                    before to-morrow's sun has set!
                Were the secrets of every human bosom laid open, I believe we should behold no
                    darker passage in the page of experience, than that which has noted down our
                    want of kindness and 
                        consi-
                        consideration
                     deration to those who are gone
                    before us to another world.
                When we realize the agonizing sensation of bending over the feeble frame of a
                    beloved friend, when the mortal conflict is approaching, and the fluttering
                    spirit is about to leave its earthly tenement; and looking back upon a long,
                    dark past, all blotted over with instances of our unkindness or neglect, and
                    forward unto that little span of life, into which we would fain concentrate the
                    deep affection, that, in spite of inconsistencies in our past conduct, has all
                    the while been cherished in our hearts,—with what impassioned earnestness would
                    we arrest the pale messenger in his career, and stay the wings of time, and call
                    upon the impatient spirit to return, to see, and feel, and understand our
                    love.
                Perhaps we have been negligent in former seasons of bodily affliction; have not
                    listened patiently to the outpouring of natural feeling, and have held ourselves
                    excused from attendance in the sick-chamber; and there has gone forth that awful
                    sentence, “It is the last time!” the last time we can offer the cordial draught,
                    or smooth the restless pillow, or bathe the feverish brow! And now, though we
                    would search all the treasures of the earth for healing medicine, and rob
                    ourselves of sleep and rest, and sustenance,
                    to purchase for the sufferer one hour of quiet slumber, and pour our tears upon
                    that aching brow, until its burning heat was quenched;—it is in vain, for the
                    eye is glazed, the lips are paralyzed, the head begins to droop, and expiring
                    nature tells us it is all too late!
                Perhaps we have not been sympathizing, kind, or tender, in those by-gone years of
                    familiar confidence, when we were called upon to share the burdens of a weary
                    bosom, whose inner feelings were revealed to us, and us alone. Yes, we can
                    remember, in the sunny days of youth, and through the trials of maturer life,
                    when the appeals of affection were answered with fretfulness or captious spleen,
                    when estrangement followed, and we could not, if we had desired it, then draw
                    back the love we had repulsed. And now we hear again that awful sentence—“It is
                    the last time!”—the last time we can ever weep upon that bosom, or lay our hand
                    upon that head, or press a fond, fond kiss upon those closing lips. Fain would
                    we then throw open the flood-gates of our hidden feeling, and pour forth words
                    of more than tenderness. Alas! the once wished-for tide would flow, like the
                    rising surf around a shattered wreck—too late.
                
                Perhaps we have been guilty of a deeper sin against our heavenly Father, and the
                    human family whose happiness he has in some measure committed to our trust. And
                    oh! let the young ask diligently of the more experienced, how they can escape
                    the aching consciousness that may pursue them to the grave, and only then
                    commence the reality of its eternal torment—the consciousness of having wasted
                    all our influence, and neglected all our means of assisting those who were
                    associated with us by the closest ties, in preparing for another and a better
                    world.
                Perhaps they once sought our society for the benefit of spiritual communion.
                    Perhaps they would have consulted us in cases of moral difficulty, had we been
                    more gracious and conciliating. Perhaps we have treated lightly the serious
                    scruples they have laid before us, or, what is still more probable, perhaps the
                    whole tenour of our inconsistent lives has been the means of drawing them away
                    from the altar, on which they saw such unholy incense burning. And now, “it is
                    the last time”—the last time we can ever speak to them of eternity, of the state
                    of their trembling souls before the eye of a just and holy God, or raise their
                    fainting hopes to the mercy still offered to their acceptance, through Him who
                    is able to save to the uttermost. Oh! for the
                    trumpet of an archangel, to awake them from the increasing torpor of bodily and
                    spiritual death. Oh! for a voice that would embody in one deep, awful, and
                    tremendous word, all—all for which our wasted life was insufficient! It is in
                    vain that we would call upon the attributes of nature and of Deity to aid us.
                    They are gone! It was the final struggle; and never more will that pale marble
                    form be roused to life by words of hope or consolation. They are gone. The
                    portals of eternity are closed—It is too late.
                Let it be a subject of grateful acknowledgment with the young, that to them this
                    fearful sentence has not yet gone forth—that opportunity may still be offered
                    them to redeem the time. They know not, however, how much of this time remains
                    at their disposal; and it might occasionally be some assistance to them in their
                    duties, would they cultivate the habit of thinking, not only of their own death,
                    but of the death of their companions.
                There are few subjects more calculated for solemn and affecting thought, than the
                    fact that we can scarcely meet a blooming circle around a cheerful hearth, but
                    one individual at least, in that circle, will
                    be cherishing in her bosom the seeds of some fatal malady.
                It is recorded of the Egyptians, that amongst their ancient customs they
                    endeavoured to preserve the salutary remembrance that they were liable to death,
                    by placing at their festal boards, a human skeleton; so that while they feasted,
                    and enjoyed the luxuries of this life, they should find it impossible to beguile
                    themselves into a belief in its perpetual duration.
                It is not necessary that we should resort to means so unnatural and repulsive;
                    though the end is still more desirable for us, who are trusting in a better
                    hope, to keep in view. Neither is it necessary that the idea should be invested
                    with melancholy, and associated with depression. It is but looking at the truth.
                    And let us deceive ourselves as we may, the green church-yard with its
                    freshly-covered graves—the passing-bell—the slowly-moving hearse—the shutters
                    closed upon the apartment where the sound of merriment was lately heard—the
                    visitations of disease within our homes—even the hectic flush of beauty—all
                    remind us that the portion of time allotted for the exercise of kindly feeling
                    towards our fellow-creatures, is fleeting fast away; and that to-day, if ever, we must prove to the Great Shepherd of
                    the christian fold, that we are not regardless of that memorable
                        injunction—By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye
                        have love one to another.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER XI.
                SOCIAL INTERCOURSE OF THE WOMEN OF ENGLAND—CAPRICE—AFFECTATION—LOVE
                    OF ADMIRATION.
                THE higher admiration we bestow upon the nature and attributes of any
                    subject of contemplation, the more painful and acute is our perception of its
                    defects. And thus when we think of woman in her most elevated character,
                    consider the extent of her capabilities, and her wonderful and almost unfailing
                    power of being great on great occasions, we are the more disposed to regret that
                    she has a power equally unlimited, of making herself little; and that, when
                    indolence or selfishness is allowed to prevail over her better feelings, this
                    power is often exercised to the annoyance of society, and to her own
                    disgrace.
                Those who understand the construction of woman's mind, however, will find some
                    excuse for this, in the natural versatility of
                    her mental faculties, in the multiplicity of her floating ideas, in the play of
                    her fancy, and in the constant overflow of her feelings, which must expend
                    themselves upon some object, either worthy or unworthy; and which consequently
                    demand the utmost attention to what is really important, in order that this
                    waste of energy, of feeling, and emotion, may be avoided.
                The word caprice, in its familiar acceptation, is one of very indefinite
                    signification. I shall endeavour to confine my use of it to those cases in which
                    the whim of the moment is made the rule of action, without any reference to
                    right reason, or even to the gratification or annoyance of others; and I shall
                    endeavour to show, that with regard to this feminine fault, as well as many
                    others, women are not fairly dealt with by society.
                How often do we see, for instance, a beautiful and fascinating girl expressing
                    the most absurd antipathies, or sympathies, and acting in the most self-willed
                    and irrational manner; in short, performing a part, which, in a plain woman,
                    would be regarded not only as repulsive, but unamiable in the utmost degree; yet
                    because she is beautiful, her admirers appear to think all these little freaks
                    of fancy highly becoming, and captivating in the extreme. If she chooses to find fault with what all the rest of the company
                    are admiring—how delightfully peculiar are her tastes! If she will walk out when
                    others are not disposed for walking—what obsequious attendants she immediately
                    finds, all ready to say the evening is fine, the air inviting, and the general
                    aspect of nature exactly what she chooses it should be! If she persists in
                    refusing to play a favourite air—what a dear capricious creature she always is!
                    and in this, as well as all other whims, she must be humoured to the extent of
                    her selfishness.
                I will not pretend to say that beauty alone can command this influence, though it
                    unquestionably has a power beyond all calculation. The being who thus assumes
                    the right to tyrannize, must have obtained the suffrages of society by the
                    exercise of some particular powers of fascination, which she wants the judgment
                    and good feeling to use for better purposes.
                We have seen her, then, a sort of idol in society, the centre of an admiring
                    circle, endowed with the royal privilege of incapability of doing wrong. We have
                    seen her admired, apparently beloved; and we turn to the little coteries of
                    dissentients who are sure to be formed in all companies where a being of this
                    description is found. Amongst these we find
                    that her character is treated, not with justice, though that had been enough,
                    but with the sharp inspection of keen and envious eyes; and we are soon
                    convinced, that if in public she is raised to the distinction of an idol, she is
                    in private most unscrupulously deprived of the honours she was but too willing
                    to assume.
                I speak not of this instance, in order to bring forward the want of charity and
                    kindly feeling prevailing in the world. I simply state that such things are,—in
                    order to show that the deference paid to the caprices of women by a few partial
                    admirers, is no real test of the favour they obtain in general society. And if,
                    in such instances where youth and beauty cast their lovely mantle over every
                    defect, woman's faults are still brought to light, what must be her
                    situation—what her treatment by the world, where she has nothing of  kind
                    to palliate her weakness, or recommend her to the charity and forbearance of her
                    fellow-creatures.
                Caprice, like many other feminine faults, appears almost too trifling in its
                    minutiæ—too insignificant in its detail, to deserve our serious condemnation;
                    yet, if caprice has the power to make enemies, and to destroy happiness, it
                    ought not to be regarded as unimportant in itself. With regard to many other subjects of consideration
                    connected with the virtues or the errors of woman, we have had to observe, that
                    each individual act may be almost beneath our notice in itself, and yet may form
                    a part of such a whole, as the utmost capabilities of human intellect would be
                    unable to treat with justice and effect.
                The case is precisely the same with feminine caprice. It is but a slight
                    deviation either from sense or propriety, to choose to differ from
                    the majority of opinions, to choose to do, and to make others do, what is not
                    agreeable to them, or to refuse to do what would give them pleasure. But, when
                    this mode of conduct becomes habitual, when beauty fades, and the idol of
                    society is cast into the shade, when disappointment irritates the temper, and
                    “sickness rends the brow,” and grief sits heavily upon the soul—in these seasons
                    of nature's weakness, when woman's trembling heart is apt to sink within her, to
                    what loneliness and bitterness of experience must she be consigned, if her own
                    indulgence of caprice has driven from her all the friends who might have
                    administered to her consolation in this hour of need.
                This view of the subject, however, she is certainly at liberty to take, and,
                    counting the cost, to indulge her momentary wishes at the expense of her future peace. The question of most serious
                    importance, is, how far are we justified in trifling with the happiness, the
                    comfort, or even the convenience of others, for the sake of indulging our own
                    caprices?
                I have before stated, that in acting from caprice, we act without reference to
                    common sense, or right feeling. If, therefore, a woman chooses to
                    be capricious, there is no help for it. Argument has no power to convince her
                    that she is wrong, and opposition only strengthens her determination: no matter
                    how many are made to suffer annoyance from her folly, or grief from her
                    perverseness. It is her choice to be capricious, and they must
                    abide by the consequences. Thus she exemplifies—it may be said in actions
                    extremely minute and unimportant—but still she does exemplify, how much mischief
                    may be done by a weak judgment, a selfish temper, and an unenlightened mind.
                The domestic habits and social intercourse of the women of England, are
                    peculiarly favourable to the counteraction of the natural tendency to caprice in
                    the female character, because they afford a supply of constant occupation, and
                    invest that occupation with the dignity of moral duty. When, therefore, we find
                    individuals acting from caprice, in the middle
                    classes of English society, we know that it exists in spite of circumstances;
                    and we consequently regard with proportionate condemnation, those who are so far
                    deficient in good taste, and good feeling, as to prefer such a mode of
                    exhibiting their follies to the world.
                It might require some degree of philosophical examination, accurately to define
                    the nature and origin of caprice; yet so far as I have been able to ascertain by
                    observations upon society in general, I should be inclined to describe it as
                    arising from the same cause as affectation; and both to owe their existence to a
                    desire to attract attention, or a belief that attention is attracted by what is
                    said or done. Caprice refers more to a weak and vain desire to be important;
                    affectation, to a desire to make ourselves admired. Both are contemptible in the
                    extreme. Yet one is so powerful in provoking the temper, the other in exciting
                    ridicule and disgust, that both are worthy of our careful examination, in order
                    that we may detect the lurking evil wherever it exists in our own conduct.
                Affectation is in practice a species of minute deception; in effect, a palpable
                    mockery of that which is assumed. I am aware that it is often the accompaniment
                    of extreme bashfulness and diffidence of self;
                    but this is seldom or never the case, except where there is a secret, yet strong
                    desire, if it were possible, to be the object of admiration to others. Along
                    with affectation, there is generally a prevailing impression of being the object
                    upon which all, or at least many eyes are fixed. For who would be at the trouble
                    of all those distortions of countenance, inflexions of voice, and manœuvrings of
                    body and limb, which we often observe in company, did they not believe
                    themselves to be 
                        “The observed of all observers”?
                    
                If by thinking too meanly of ourselves, we are overwhelmed with humiliation in
                    public, and tormented with dissatisfaction in private, it is clear that there is
                    as much vanity and selfishness in this depreciation of our own character, as in
                    the more exalted and comfortable inflation of conceit. The only difference
                    is,—in one case we are piqued and wounded that we cannot be admired; in the
                    other, we believe ourselves to be admired when we are not.
                The suffering produced by this kind of vanity, is generally accompanied both with
                    affectation and bashfulness; but we must not suppose, because a blush suffuses
                    the countenance, and the 
                        out-
                        outstretched
                     stretched hand is seen to tremble,
                    that the individual who is guilty of this breach of fashionable indifference, is
                    necessarily free from vanity, or guiltless of a desire to be admired.
                Those who have travelled much, and seen much of the world, are generally cured
                    both of bashfulness and affectation, by one of these two causes,—either they
                    have been so often in company without making any impression, that they have
                    learned of how little importance it is to society in what manner they behave, or
                    how they look; or they have learned a still more useful lesson, that the
                    admiration of man, even in its fullest sense, goes but a little way towards
                    satisfying the heart.
                The affectation most frequently detected in the behaviour of women, is that which
                    arises from an inordinate desire of being agreeable. A certain degree of this
                    desire is unquestionably of great service in preserving them from the moral
                    degradation which I have before alluded to, as attaching to personal neglect—as
                    indicating a low state of mind wherever it exists, and procuring a low degree of
                    estimation for the individual who thus allows her negligence to gain the
                    ascendancy over her good taste.
                On the other hand, what may with propriety be called an inordinate
                    desire to be admired, when it takes the place
                    of higher motives and principles of action, is perhaps a more fertile source
                    both of folly and of suffering, than any other which operates upon the life and
                    conduct of woman. As exhibited through the single medium of affectation, it is
                    so varied in its character, and so unbounded in its sphere of operation, that to
                    attempt to describe it in detail would require volumes, rather than pages: I
                    shall therefore confine my remarks to that species of affectation which is the
                    most prevalent in the present day.
                As the peculiar kind of merit assumed by the hypocrite is, in some measure, a
                    test of what is most popular and most approved in society; so the prevailing
                    affectation of the day, is an indication of the taste of the times—of the
                    general tone of public feeling, and of the tendency of private habits. That
                    which most recommends itself to the acceptance and adoption of the young ladies
                    of the present day, is an affectation of refinement—not refinement of feeling as
                    relates to the means possessed by every human being, of increasing pleasure and
                    alleviating pain, in the circle of friends or relatives by which they are
                    surrounded; but refinement of self, so that the individual who has
                    attained to this degree of elevation, shall be exempt from all personal
                    obligations, particularly such as would render
                    her instrumental in the performance of social and domestic services amongst her
                    fellow-creatures. Women who affect this kind of refinement, are extremely
                    fastidious in all that relates to manual employment. They cannot
                        touch the coarse material that supplies our bodily wants, or
                    constitutes our personal comfort. They loathe the very mention of those culinary
                    compounds, which nevertheless their fair lips condescend to admit; and they
                    shrink with horror from the vulgar notion that the old grandmother-duties of
                    preparing a clean hearth, and a comfortable fireside, for a husband or a
                    brother, could by any possibility devolve upon them.
                For this kind of affectation, however, there is some excuse in our natural
                    indolence; and in the exemption it procures from personal exertion; but when we
                    see the absolute pains which some of the same individuals will take
                    to make themselves appear dependent, useless, and wholly inadequate to
                    self-preservation, we are startled with a new idea, and entirely at a loss to
                    account for this phenomenon in human nature.
                It is with difficulty I admit the belief that women are in reality the victims of
                    all those foolish fears, with which they profess to be annoyed, and with which
                    they unquestionably are very successful in
                    annoying others. It is with difficulty I admit this belief, because I see—and
                    see with admiration, that some of the most delicate women, the most sensitively
                    alive to impression, and the most susceptible both of pleasure and pain, can,
                    when called upon by duty, and actuated by principle, set all these idle fears
                    aside, and dare to do what man would almost shrink from. I cannot therefore
                    divest myself of all suspicion, that a little of this feminine timidity is
                    sometimes assumed, and a great deal of it encouraged, for the sake of effect—for
                    the sake of making it appear to society that the individual who acts this part,
                    is too refined to have ever been accustomed to the rough usages of common
                    life.
                I say this with all charity, and with much compassion for those whose bodily and
                    mental conformation does really render them the victims of
                    causeless fear; and when we see such persons endeavouring to subdue their
                    timidity, ashamed of it as a weakness, and especially solicitous for it not to
                    interfere with the comfort or convenience of others, they justly claim, not only
                    our sympathy, but our admiration. It is the display of terror that
                    I would speak of in terms which can scarcely be too contemptuous—the becoming
                    start, the modulated shriek, the studied appeal for manly 
                        protec-
                        protection
                     tion, and all that elaboration of
                    feminine delicacy, which it sometimes appears to be the business of a life to
                    exhibit.
                Besides this kind of affectation, I will mention another species, if possible
                    still more unaccountable in its nature and cause. It is the affectation of
                    ignorance respecting common things. It is by no means unusual with young ladies
                    to appear to plume themselves upon not knowing how any familiar or ordinary
                    thing is made or done. They refuse to understand anything about machinery, and
                    bring into their conversation, what they seem to regard as the most entertaining
                    blunders, whenever conversation turns upon the occupations of the labouring
                    classes. The same individuals seldom know the way to any place, are incapable of
                    discovering whether their faces are turned to the north or the south; and if you
                    ask them with any idea of receiving an answer, from what quarter the wind is
                    blowing, you might as well expect them to tell you whether the tide is at that
                    moment rising in Nootka sound.
                If any of these confessions of ignorance, when forced upon them, were attended
                    with embarrassment or shame, they would claim our sisterly compassion; and sorry
                    should I be to make their blushes the subject of public remark. But when we find this ignorance persisted in, made
                    conspicuous on every possible occasion, and attended with 
                        “nods, and becks, and wreathed smiles,”
                     as if it were sure to meet with a favourable reception in society, we
                    cannot withhold the exclamation of our patriot poet, that from our souls we
                    “loathe all affectation.”
                It is evident that this helplessness, and this ignorance, where they are assumed,
                    must be so for the purpose of attracting attention, claiming assistance, it may
                    be, from the other sex, and establishing an unquestionable claim to refinement,
                    by giving forth to society an idea of habits of exclusion from all vulgar or
                    degrading association.
                It is difficult to imagine a mode of life, or a combination of circumstances,
                    less advantageous to the cultivation of such false notions of refinement, than
                    those which are presented by the real situation of the women of England; and it
                    is impossible not to look, with gloomy anticipations for the future welfare of
                    our country, upon the increasing prevalence of these erroneous ideas of what is
                    really excellent and admirable in the female character.
                The view we have taken of the subjects at 
                        pre-
                        present
                     sent under consideration, naturally
                    leads us to that great root of more than half the folly and the misery existing
                    amongst women—the love of admiration.
                The extreme case, of a woman totally indifferent to the good opinion of her
                    fellow-creatures, would fail to recommend itself to our regard, inasmuch as it
                    would argue a deficiency in her nature, of those feelings which have been given
                    her as a means of happiness to herself and benefit to others. She would stand
                    amidst her fellow-creatures a lonely and isolated being, living and acting
                    without reference to the existence of any other being; and if she escaped the
                    thousand disappointments of those who act from opposite motives, she would be
                    equally exempt from any claim upon their affection.
                Such individuals, however, are so rare, that the consideration of their
                    peculiarities would be a fruitless waste of time and thought. It is to the
                    opposite extreme of character that our attention must now be given. And here I
                    would request the reader to bear in mind, that my remarks refer strictly to the
                    love of admiration, not to the love of approbation,
                    which I take to be a natural and lawful stimulus to all that is excellent in
                    female conduct.
                
                When we look upon human life with “critical inspection,” we find that a vast
                    proportion of the apparent motives acted upon before the world, are not the real
                    motives by which the individual actors are influenced; and that this system of
                    deception is often carried on unconsciously to them, because they are themselves
                    betrayed by the deceitfulness of their own hearts. In no instance is this more
                    strikingly the case than in our love of admiration. To gratify this desire, what
                    suffering are we not willing to endure, what pains do we not take, what patience
                    can we not exercise; and all under the most plausible pretences—pretences that
                    impose upon others less effectually than ourselves, that we are acting upon
                    higher and more praiseworthy principles. There is this difference, however, to
                    be observed between acting from worthy and unworthy motives: when our endeavours
                    are unsuccessful and our motives correct, we seldom give way to the fretfulness
                    of disappointment; but when our endeavours are ineffectual, and we look back
                    into our own hearts, and find them unsupported by any laudable object, our
                    fretfulness is often exasperated into bitterness and spleen.
                Observation and experience have taught me to believe that many of the secret
                    sorrows of woman's life, owe half their
                    poignancy to the disappointment of not being able to obtain the degree of
                    admiration which has been studiously sought. A popular and elegant writer has
                    said—“How often do the wounds of our vanity form the secret of our pathos!” And
                    to the situation, and the feelings of woman, this observation is more especially
                    applicable. Still, there is much to be said for woman in this respect. By the
                    nature of her own feelings, as well as by the established rules of polished
                    life, she is thrown, as it were, upon the good-will of society. Unable to assert
                    her own claims to protection, she must endeavour to ensure it by secondary
                    means, and she knows that the protection of man is best ensured by recommending
                    herself to his admiration.
                Nor is this all. There is but a faint line of demarkation between admiration and
                    love. Though essentially different in their nature, and not always called forth
                    by the same individual, their outward aspect is still so much alike, and there
                    is so frequent a transition made from the one to the other, that it requires
                    more able reasoning than the generality of women are capable of, to know exactly
                    when they are exciting admiration, and when they are inspiring love. There is,
                    however, one infallible test by which the case may be decided, and I 
                        can-
                        cannot
                     not too earnestly recommend to my
                    countrywomen to apply it to themselves. If they are admired without being
                    beloved, they may possibly be favourites in company abroad, but they will be no
                    favourites at home—they may obtain the goodwill of a mere acquaintance, but they
                    will be solitary and neglected at their own fireside. If they are cultivating
                    such habits as are calculated to make them really beloved, especially at home,
                    they may retire from company in which they have been wholly overlooked, to find
                    the warmest welcome of the domestic circle awaiting their return—they may not be
                    able to create any perceptible sensation when they appear in public, but every
                    familar countenance around their social hearth will be lighted up with smiles
                    when they appear.
                With regard to the love of admiration, it is much to be regretted that all women
                    who make this one of the chief objects of their lives, do not at the same time
                    evince an equal solicitude to be admired for what is really praiseworthy. Were
                    this the case, they would at least be employed in cultivating useful habits; and
                    as the student who aims at obtaining a prize, even if he fails in that direct
                    object, has obtained what is more desirable, in the power of application which
                    he has made himself master of; so the woman who aims at moral 
                        excel-
                        excellence
                     lence, if the taste of society is
                    too vitiated to receive with admiration the first impression her character is
                    calculated to make, has yet acquired such habits as will prove an inestimable
                    treasure throughout the whole of her after life.
                We do not, however, see that this is the case so much as might be desired in
                    modern society. There is an appearance amongst the women of the present day, of
                    being too eager for an immediate tribute of admiration, to wait for the
                    developement of moral worth; and thus they cultivate those more shining
                    accomplishments, which dazzle and delight for the moment, but leave no materials
                    for agreeable reflection behind. Like the conducter of an exhibition of
                    fire-works, they play off their splendid combinations of light and colour; but
                    the magazine is soon expended, and the scene closes with weariness, and vacuity,
                    and the darkness of night.
                What a waste of time, and means, and application, for such a result! What an
                    expenditure of thought and feeling, to have produced this momentary display!
                    Surely no philanthropist can behold unmoved the pitiful objects for which women
                    who court the incense of admiration, are spending their lives. Surely none of
                    the patriot sons of Britain can look on, and see with indifference the
                        sisters, the wives, the mothers, of our
                    English homes, perpetually employed, even in a world of care and suffering, of
                    anxiety and disappointment, in administering to the momentary gratification of
                    the eye and the ear, while the heart is left unsatisfied, and the drooping soul
                    uncheered.
                The desire of being beloved is an ambition of a far more amiable and praiseworthy
                    character. But who shall record the endless variety of suffering it entails upon
                    woman? I will not believe of my sex, that it is the love of admiration only,
                    which gives birth to all those rivalries and mortifications—that envy, and
                    spleen, and bitterness, which mar the felicity of female companionship. It must
                    be some deeper feeling; and I at least will give them credit for being wounded
                    in a tenderer point than their vanity, before they can so far do violence to
                    their gentler nature, as to revenge upon each other the slights and the
                    humiliations they receive.
                Yes: it is to human calculation the most pardonable, and yet it is the most
                    soul-besetting sin of woman, to be perpetually investing earthly objects with an
                    interest too intense for her own happiness; and asking of some oracle she has
                    herself established, for an answer to the language of her own heart. Let her
                    seek as she may, the admiration and applause
                    of the world, it never satisfies the craving of her soul. She must have
                    something to come home to—a shelter even in the brightest sunshine—a bower in
                    the fairest garden—a shrine within the richest temple. She cannot mingle with
                    the stream of life, and float securely on, as one amongst the many.
                    She will not even be exalted in solitary distinction. The world has no wealth to
                    offer, that she would possess alone.
                This is the true nature of woman; and the home she seeks is in the hearts of
                    those who are bound to her by affection. She knows that her place in this home
                    is not to be maintained without unceasing care; and hence the solicitude she
                    bestows upon things of trifling moment. She knows also that in some instances
                    she is liable to be supplanted; she feels, perhaps, that she is not worthy to
                    monopolize so honourable a place; and hence her watchfulness and jealousy. It
                    may be that she is “discarded thence,” for human love is sometimes treacherous;
                    and hence her wounded spirit, and the occasional outpouring of natural feeling,
                    by which she brings upon herself the odium of bitterness and revenge.
                Thus the darkest faults of woman may often be traced back to those peculiarities
                    of her nature, which, under favouring circumstances, and with the Divine
                    blessing, may constitute her highest
                    recommendation, and surest source of happiness. How important is it, then, since
                    to woman it is essential to be loved, that she should not expect to reap where
                    she has never sown, and thus incur the most painful disappointment to which her
                    suffering nature is liable!
                With regard to the anxiety to be admired, then, I would propose that
                        approve should be substituted for admire, and just
                    so far as women seek the approval of their friends, under the guidance of
                    religious truth, there is every reason to believe they will reap an abundant
                    reward. With regard to the desire to be beloved, I can only repeat, that the
                    women of England are peculiarly blessed in the means they possess of rendering
                    themselves estimable in society; and the opportunities they enjoy of cultivating
                    the kindest and happiest feelings of our nature. They have the homes of England
                    in their keeping; and the hearts within those homes must necessarily be
                    attracted or repelled by the light or the shade which their presence diffuses
                    around them. They cannot complain that circumstances are against them in the
                    attainment of moral worth. All the natural characteristics of their native
                    country are in their favour. The happiness of the whole human family, and
                    especially of man, supplies them with a never-failing motive. Nature and religion are both on their side—the one to
                    prompt, the other to lure them on. They have the gratitude of their
                    fellow-creatures awaiting their endeavours—and what is more, they have the
                    gracious approval of their heavenly Father, as their encouragement and
                    reward.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER XII.
                PUBLIC OPINION—PECUNIARY RESOURCES—INTEGRITY.
                THE respect paid by women to public opinion, and to the conventional
                    rules of society, might have been considered with some propriety under the head
                    of love of admiration, did not the immediate connexion of this subject with that
                    of integrity, render it more suited to the present chapter.
                To use a popular Germanism, it is but a one-sided view of the
                    subject that we take, when we suppose that the hope of being admired is the
                    strongest stimulus to the female character in all cases where her conduct is
                    referred to public opinion. The dread of being censured or condemned, exercises,
                    I am inclined to think, a far more extensive influence over her habits and her
                    feelings. Any deviation from the fashionable
                    mode of dress, or from the established usages of polished life, present an
                    appalling difficulty to a woman of ordinary mind brought up under the tutelage
                    of what is called the world. She cannot—positively cannot—dare not—will not do
                    any thing that the world has pronounced unlady-like. Nor, while she lives in the
                    world, and mixes in polished society, is it at all desirable that she should
                    deviate from such universally acknowledged rules, except where absolute duty
                    leads her into a different line of conduct. I should be the last person to
                    advise a woman to risk the consequences of such deviations, simply for the sake
                    of being singular; because, I regard the assumption of singularity for its own
                    sake, as one of the most absurd of all the varied specimens of affectation which
                    human life affords.
                To choose to be singular without a sufficient reason, and to
                        dare to be so in a noble cause, are so widely different, that I
                    desire to be clearly understood in the remarks I am about to make, as referring
                    strictly to those cases in which duty renders it necessary for women to deviate
                    from the fashions and established customs of the time or place in which they
                    live.
                While the tide of prosperity bears us smoothly on, and our means are ample, and
                    our luxuries abundant, we suffer little
                    inconvenience from the tyranny of the world in these respects. Indeed, it is
                    rather an agreeable amusement to many ladies to consult the fashions of the day,
                    and to be amongst the first to change their mode of dress—to order costly
                    furniture, and to receive company in the most approved and lady-like style. But
                    as I have before observed, of the class of persons to which this work chiefly
                    relates, the tide of prosperity is apt to ebb, as well as to flow; and as it
                    recedes from us, the whole aspect of the world is not only changed to us, but
                    the aspect of our conduct is changed to the world; so that, what it approved in
                    us before, and honoured with its countenance, is now the subject of its extreme
                    and bitter condemnation.
                It is then that we discover, we have been serving a hard master; but
                    unfortunately for thousands of human beings, the discovery brings with it no
                    freedom from that service. We loathe the cruel bondage; but habit is too strong
                    for conviction, and we continue to wear the galling chain. It is, then, in cases
                    of adverse fortune, that we see the incalculable benefit of having made the
                    moral duties of social and domestic life the rule of our conduct, and of having
                    regarded all outward embellishments as things
                    of very subordinate importance.
                It is a case of by no means rare occurrence, that the young women of England
                    return home from school more learned in the modes of dress, and habits of
                    conduct prevailing amongst the fashionable and the wealthy, than in any of those
                    systems of intellectual culture in which they have been instructed. Or if their
                    knowledge has not extended to what is done in fashionable life, they have at
                    least learned to despise what is done amongst the vulgar and the poor, to look
                    upon certain kinds of dress as impossible to be worn, and to regard with supreme
                    contempt every indication of the absence of fashionable manners. So far as their
                    means of information could be made to extend, they have laid down, for the
                    guidance of their future lives, the exact rules by which the outward conduct of
                    a lady ought to be regulated, and by these rules they determine to
                    abide.
                If this determination was applied exclusively to what is delicate, refined, and
                    lovely in the female character, they would unquestionably be preparing
                    themselves for being both esteemed and beloved; but unfortunately for them,
                    their attention is too often directed to the mode of dress worn by 
                        per-
                        persons
                     sons much higher than themselves in
                    worldly prosperity, and to all the minutiæ of look and manner which they regard
                    as indications of easy circumstances, and exemption from vulgar occupation.
                Nor is the school itself, or the mode of treatment there, to be regarded as the
                    source of these ideas and conclusions. The customs of modern society, and the
                    taste of modern times, are solely in fault. And wherever young ladies are
                    congregated together with the same means of communication as at school, the same
                    results must follow, until the public taste undergoes a material change, or
                    until the women of England have become learned in a higher school of wisdom.
                With the preparation here alluded to, our young women enter upon social life; and
                    as years roll on, the habits thus acquired of making custom and fashion the rule
                    of their lives, strengthen with the establishment of their character, and become
                    parts of their very being. What then is the consequence of such habits in the
                    day of their adversity, when the diminution of their pecuniary means leaves them
                    no longer the power of conforming to the world they have so loved? The
                    consequence is, that along with many real privations, their ideal sufferings are
                    increased a hundred-fold, by the fact that they must dress and live in a
                        manner different from what they have been
                    accustomed to—in short, that they must lose caste.
                How little has the mere circumstance of relinquishing our luxuries to do with the
                    distress attendant upon the loss of worldly substance. We find every day that
                    persons travelling expressly for enjoyment, joining in social excursions, and
                    even seeking the invigoration of their health, and the refreshment of their
                    spirits, from the sea-breezes, or in places of customary resort for the summer
                    months, voluntarily resign more than half their habitual indulgences, and
                    subject themselves, without a murmur, to the occupation of apartments which they
                    would scarcely think possible to be endured for a single day in their native
                    town; and all the while they are perhaps more happy and more cheerful than in
                    their elegant drawing-rooms at home.
                It is evident, then, that it cannot be their individual share in the
                    gratification of artificial wants, which they find it so heart-breaking to
                    resign. It must be that a certain number of polite and refined individuals
                    having combined to attach a high degree of importance to the means of
                        procuring the luxuries of life, all who belong to this class, when
                    compelled to exhibit in public a manifest destitution of such means, regard 
                        them-
                        themselves
                     selves, and expect to be regarded by
                    others, as having beome degraded in the sight of their fellow-creatures, and no
                    longer entitled to their favour or regard.
                It is of no use asserting that we all know better than to come to this
                    conclusion—that mankind are not so weak, or so unjust—that we appreciate the
                    moral worth of an individual beyond the luxuries of his table, or the costliness
                    of his dress. It is easy to say this; but it is not so easy to
                    believe it, because the practical proof of experience is against it. If, for
                    instance, we cared for none of these things, why should the aspect of human life
                    present such a waste of time, and health, and patience, and mental power, and
                    domestic peace, in the pursuit of wealth, when that wealth is expended, as soon
                    as gained, in maintaining an appearance of elegance and luxury before the
                    world?
                I am not prepared to argue about the benefits resulting from the encouragement of
                    artificial wants, and the increase of luxuries, on the broad scale of national
                    prosperity. There are pens more able and more fit for such a purpose. My
                    narrower views are confined to the individual evils resulting from an
                    over-strained ambition to keep pace with our wealthier associates in our
                        general habits; and I would write with
                    earnestness on this subject, because I believe that in England, at the present
                    time, these evils are of rapidly increasing extent.
                It may seem unimportant to those who have no experience in these affairs, to
                    speak of the private and domestic disputes arising out of artificial wants, on
                    one side, and inability to provide the demanded supply for them, on the other.
                    Yet what family, in moderate circumstances, has not some record of scenes, alike
                    humiliating to human nature, and destructive to human happiness, in which the
                    ill-judged request, or the harsh denial—the importunate appeal, or the agonizing
                    reply—the fretful remonstrance, or the bitter retort, have not at seasons cast a
                    shade over the domestic hearth, and destroyed the peace of the circle gathered
                    around the social board.
                It may appear still more like trifling, to speak of the sensations, with which a
                    member of a fallen family regards her dilapidated wardrobe, and looks, and looks
                    in vain for a garment sufficiently respectable to make her appearance in before
                    a rich relation. Perhaps she has but one—a call has to be made upon a person of
                    distinction, and as she proceeds on her way, eyeing with watchful anxiety every
                    speck and spray that would be likely to reduce
                    her garment below the average of respectability, a storm overtakes her. There
                    are carriages for all who can afford to pay for them, but none for her: and the
                    agony of losing her last claim to gentility takes possession of her soul.
                The reader may possibly smile at the absurdity of this case. A half-clad savage
                    from some barbarous island, would probably smile, could he be made to understand
                    it. But nothing can be farther from exciting a smile than the real
                    sensations it occasions. Nothing can be farther from a smile than the look with
                    which a failing tradesman regards the forlorn condition of his hat, when he
                    dares not brush it, lest he should render its destitution more apparent. Nothing
                    can be farther from a smile, than the glance he casts upon his threadbare coat,
                    when he knows of no possible resource in art or nature that can supply him with
                    a new one. And nothing can be farther from a smile, than the cold welcome we
                    give to a guest who presents himself unexpectedly, and must, perforce, look in
                    upon the scantiness of our half-furnished table.
                It is easy to class these sources of disquietude under the head of absurdities,
                    and to call them unworthy of rational beings; but I do believe, there is more
                    real misery existing in the world at the
                    present time, from causes like these, than from all those publicly-acknowledged
                    calamities which are more uniformly attributed to the dispensations of
                    Providence.
                I do not mean that these miseries arise directly from, or are by any means
                    confined to, our personal appearance, or the furniture of our houses; but when
                    we contemplate the failure of pecuniary means, as it is regarded by the world,
                    and attempt to calculate the immense variety of channels through which the
                    suffering it produces is made to flow, in consequence of the customs and habits
                    of society, I believe they will be found to extend through every variety of
                    human life, to the utmost range of human feeling. Is it not to escape this
                    suffering that the man of unsound principles too frequently applies himself to
                    dishonourable means—that the suicide prepares the deadly draught—and that the
                    emigrant sometimes forsakes his native land, and consigns himself to the
                    solitude of unpeopled wilds?—In short, what more remains within the range of
                    human capability, which man has not done, with the hope of flying from the
                    horrors attendant upon the falling away of his pecuniary means?
                When the reality of this suffering is acknowledged, as it must be by
                    all who look upon society as it exists at the
                    present moment; the next subject of importance is, to consider how the suffering
                    can be obviated, and its fatal effects upon the peace and happiness of society
                    prevented.
                The most immediate means that could be made to operate upon woman would
                    unquestionably be, by implanting in her mind a deeper and more rational
                    foundation of thought and feeling—to put a stop to that endless variety of
                    ill-natured gossip which relates to the want of elegance, or fashionable air in
                    certain persons' dress and manner of living; so that there should be no more
                    questioning, “What will be thought of my wearing this dress again?” “What will
                    Miss P., or Mrs. W. say, if they see our old curtains?” “What can the Johnsons
                    mean by travelling outside?” “What will the people at church or chapel say, when
                    they see your shabby veil?” “I positively don't believe the Wilsons can afford a
                    new carpet, or they would surely have one; and they have discontinued their
                    subscription to our book-society.”
                It is neither grateful nor profitable to pursue these remarks any farther than as
                    they serve for specimens of that most contemptible of small-talk, which yet
                    exercises a powerful influence over the female mind—so much so, that I have
                    known the whole fabric of a woman's philosophy entirely overthrown, and her peace of mind for the moment
                    destroyed, by the simple question, whether she had no other dress than the one
                    she was so often seen to wear.
                There is another instance that occurs to me, as illustrating, in a striking
                    manner, the subject immediately under consideration: it is that of wearing
                    mourning for a deceased relative. This custom is so generally acknowledged as
                    desirable, that it needs no recommendation from my pen. One would suppose,
                    however, on a superficial view of it, that the wearing of black, as a general
                    costume indicative of the absence of festivity or merriment from the bereaved
                    family, was all that had been originally intended by this custom; and that it
                    should thus become an outward testimony of respect and sorrow for the dead.
                The fashion of the world, however, has imposed upon this custom, as applies to
                    females, certain restrictions, and additions so expensive in their nature as to
                    render it rather an article of luxury to wear genteel mourning, or that which is
                    indicative of the deepest grief. It interferes but little with the sorrow and
                    seclusion of a recent bereavement for the mistress of ample means to give
                        orders for an external exemplification of precisely the degree of
                    sorrow supposed to attend upon the loss of a
                    parent, or a distant relative. but when the means of pecuniary expenditure are
                    extremely small, and the materials for appearing properly in public have to be
                    made up at home, and prepared for use within a very limited time, it is evident
                    that greater regard to the sacredness of sorrow would suggest the desirableness
                    of a less elaborate style of dress, or perhaps a dress not absolutely new for
                    the occasion. Ladies, however, and those who have been accustomed to make
                    gentility the primary rule of their conduct, must mourn genteelly;
                    and, consequently, there are often scenes of bustling preparation, of invention,
                    and studious arrangement—scenes, upon which, if a stranger should look in, he
                    would see an appearance of activity, and interest, almost amounting to
                        amusement, in the very house where the shutters are still
                    closed; and which are wholly at variance with the silence and the sanctity of a
                    deep and solemn grief.
                Nor is this all. So extremely becoming and ladylike is the fashionable style of
                    mourning, that, under the plea of paying greater respect to the memory of the
                    dead, it has become an object of ambition to wear it in its greatest excellence;
                    and equally an object of dread, and source of humiliation, to be compelled to
                    wear it in an inferior style. Thus, when the loss of a father is attended with
                    the failure of his pecuniary resources, it
                    adds no little to the grief into which his daughters are plunged, to be under
                    the necessity of appearing so soon after their twofold loss, under such an
                    outward sign of poverty as is generally understood by the world to be betrayed
                    by cheap and humble mourning.
                It is evident that if the preparation of mourning had never been reduced to a
                    system—so many folds of crape for a parent—so many for a sister, and so on—the
                    peculiar style in which it might be made up would never have obtained half its
                    present importance, and respectable women, of fallen fortunes, might then have
                    appeared in public with the credit of paying as much honour to the memory of the
                    dead, as the more wealthy; nay, they might even have been so absorbed in their
                    heart-rending loss, and in all the solemn and affecting impressions it was
                    calculated to inspire, as to forget to have any new preparation for the
                    occasion, and might, without loss of respectability, appear again in those
                    accustomed habiliments of darkness and gloom which former instances of family
                    affliction and bereavement had been the means of bringing into use.
                I mention the instance of mourning, not because it differs materially from many
                    others, but because it appears to me to illustrate clearly and strikingly the degree of shame, and trouble, and
                    perplexity, in which women are involved by the habit of attaching too much
                    importance to the usages of society. I know that it is beneficial to the
                    character and the morals of women, that their good name should be guarded from
                    every breath of reproach; and that the wholesome restrictions of society are
                    absolutely necessary to prevent them from sometimes venturing too far under the
                    influence of generous and disinterested feeling. But my remarks apply
                    exclusively to cases where their moral worth would be established, not
                    endangered; and I would earnestly request my countrywomen to bear in mind the
                    immense difference between deviating from the rules of fashion, and breaking
                    through the wholesome restrictions of prudence.
                I have spoken in strong terms of the sufferings and inconveniences incident to
                    women, from their slavery to the opinion of the world; but were this
                    consideration all that had to be taken into account, they would unquestionably
                    have a right to adjust the balance, and act according to their own choice.
                There is, however, a far more important question connected with this subject—and
                    that is, the question of integrity.
                
                If there be one moral quality for which England as a nation is distinguished
                    above all others, I should say it was her integrity—integrity in her intercourse
                    with other nations—integrity in the administration of her government and
                    laws—integrity in the sound hearts and honourable feelings of her patriotic
                    sons.
                And shall her daughters be less solicitous to uphold this high standard of moral
                    worth? They answer “No!” But they are perhaps not all aware of the encroaching
                    and insidious nature of artificial wants, and tastes, and habits, founded upon
                    the fashion of the times, rather than upon any lasting principle of right. They
                    are not all aware, that to dress and live beyond their means, is a species of
                    public robbery; and that even if every lawful debt is paid, and the balance
                    struck without injury to character or credit, there are still the poor—the
                    starving, hungry, helpless poor—unsatisfied with bread. They have therefore the
                    strong claims, both of justice and benevolence, to fulfil, before the integrity
                    of their christian character can be complete.
                With regard to general benevolence, and charity to the poor, we are apt to
                    deceive ourselves to an extent which would be beyond our belief, were we not
                    convinced by the observation of every day,
                    that few—very few of those even in the middle ranks of life—few even of those
                    tender-hearted females who are so painfully affected by every exhibition of
                    human misery, do anything at all commensurate with their means, towards
                    alleviating the suffering which is to be found amongst the poor.
                I am not inclined to attach any high degree of merit to the mere act of giving
                    money to the poor, because I esteem it a luxury to be thus instrumental in
                    relieving their pressing difficulties; and I am also in considerable doubt
                    whether this is the best method of relieving them. The point I am about to
                    remark upon, however, is the extreme inconsistency of those longings, so
                    prevalent amongst ladies, that they could give to the poor; and the
                    lamentations they frequently utter relating to the absolute necessity they are
                    under, of not giving more. We find them elegantly dressed, dwelling amongst
                    costly furniture, and denying themselves nothing which their wealthier
                    neighbours enjoy—and all the while, they do so wish they could give more to the
                    poor!
                I confess it sickens the heart, and wearies the mind, to listen to absurdities
                    like this. If these individuals would but let the matter rest, and be content to be fashionable without
                        pretending to be generous, half their culpability would cease
                    to exist. But they go on to explain to you how their station in life, and their
                    credit in society, require them to dress and live in a certain way; and how they
                    consider themselves doing a benefit to their country by their encouragement of
                    its manufactures. It would not be inappropriate to ask them, as they enter a
                    fashionable and expensive establishment to purchase some costly articles of
                    dress, whether they are doing it in reality for the benefit of their country?
                    and there might be seasons when it would be equally appropriate to inquire,
                    whether they prefer their appearance before the world, to the spiritual
                    consolation of having made the injunctions of their blessed Saviour the rule of
                    their conduct.
                The measure of charity, which it is our duty to bestow upon the poor, is a point
                    of very difficult adjustment, as well as the manner we may choose to adopt in
                    the distribution of our means. We cannot properly make ourselves the judge of a
                    brother or a sister, in these respects. But if we have sufficient resources for
                    the purchase of luxuries, it is in vain to pretend that we cannot
                    give to the poor; and if we will not spare a little out of our little, we cannot expect to be believed, when
                    we boast of the pleasure it would afford us to be charitable with more.
                There are noble instances afforded by women in the middle classes of society in
                    England, of what can really be done in the way of benevolence, in a persevering
                    and unobtrusive manner, which it is truly refreshing to the soul to contemplate.
                    And I would earnestly recommend my young countrywomen to look seriously to
                    these, and to ask whether they cannot go and do likewise; rather than to
                    accustom themselves to the dangerous habit of inquiring whether they cannot
                    afford to purchase what is fashionable and becoming to a lady, even when it is
                    not necessary for comfort or respectability. By this means they would at least
                    be able to attain a degree of merit; for if they did not go to the
                    extent of the truly devoted and praiseworthy, they might avoid involving
                    themselves in that interminable chain of expensive contingencies, which are sure
                    to follow, if we set out in life by making it our first object of ambition to
                    stand well with the world, and to accommodate our dress and mode of living to
                    that which is most admired in society.
                The fallacious mode of reasoning induced by too slavish a conformity to the
                    fashions and the customs of the world, creates
                    an endless series of entanglements most fatally seductive to woman's better
                    feelings. The fact of having, or not having, absolute debts unpaid, seems to be,
                    with most young ladies, the boundary-line of their morality, as relates to their
                    pecuniary affairs; and well would it be if all were strictly
                    scrupulous even to this extent. Within this line, however, there may be
                    deviations from the integrity of a noble, generous, and enlightened mind, which
                    yet the world takes no cognizance of, and which do not materially affect the
                    character, as it is judged of by society in general.
                I have said that the world is an unjust judge; and in no instance is it more so
                    than in this. The world pays homage to an expensive, elegant, and lady-like
                    appearance; but it takes little note of the principle that would condemn this
                    appearance, if it could not be maintained without encroachment upon a parent's
                    limited means. The restrictions of civil law refer only to the payment of
                    pecuniary debts; and when these are discharged, we may appear without reproach
                    before society. But happily for us, we have a higher standard of moral duty; and
                    the integrity of the christian character requires a strict observance of points
                    of conduct unseen by society, and perhaps
                    known only to ourselves, and to the great Searcher of human hearts, by whose
                    judgment we must stand or fall.
                Reasoning, then, upon these subjects, from higher principles, we clearly perceive
                    that we have no right to indulge ourselves with luxuries, or to purchase the
                    countenance and favour of society, at the expense of a parent's peace, or by the
                    sacrifice of the comforts of his old age. We have no right to encroach upon
                    means not strictly and lawfully our own, even though they should be granted to
                    our necessities, for more than belongs to actual decency of appearance, and
                    sufficiency of subsistence, except in those cases where it is the desire of
                    wealthy friends or relatives that we should be adorned and supplied at their
                    expense. We have no right, and no woman of good feeling would wish to establish
                    a right, to dress and live at the extreme of expenditure, which a father, by
                    nothing less than hourly and incessant toil, can obtain the means of affording.
                    We have no right to make presents, and thus obtain the meed of gratitude and
                    admiration for our generosity, with money which is immediately transmitted from
                    our father's hand for that especial purpose, while our own resources remain
                    undiminished, our own 
                        pri-
                        private
                     vate store of treasures uninvaded,
                    and our circumstances wholly unaffected.
                I do not say that to each one of the immense variety of daily and familiar
                    actions, which might be classed under this head, there attaches the highest
                    degree of actual culpability. They are rather instances of encroachment, than of
                    absolute injustice and wrong. But I do say that the habit of
                    encroaching, just so far as decency will permit, and as occasion seems to
                    warrant, upon all that is noble and generous, upright and kind, in human
                    conduct, has a fatal tendency to corrupt the heart, while it produces at the
                    same time a deadening effect upon the highest and holiest aspirations of the
                    soul.
                What answer can be made by such a soul to the secret questionings of its internal
                    monitor? Or how shall we appeal to the gracious and merciful Creator of the
                    universe, who has given us all this glorious world for our enjoyment, and all
                    the elements of nature for our use; who has looked upon us in our degradation,
                    and pitied our infirmities, and opened the gates of heaven, that his mercy might
                    descend to us in a palpable and human form, and that we might receive the
                    conditions of his offered pardon, be healed, and live? —how shall we appeal to him in our private prayers,
                    or stand before him in the public sanctuary, with this confession on our
                    lips—that just so far as man could approve or condemn our actions, we have
                    deemed it expedient to be just; but that to him, and to the Saviour of our
                    souls, we have grudged the incense of a willing mind; and therefore we have
                    enhanced our pleasures, and gratified our pride, and fed our selfishness, by all
                    those trifling, yet forbidden means, which he has pronounced to be offensive in
                    his sight?
                Besides these considerations, there is one of immeasurable importance, connected
                    with our conduct in the sight of God. No human mind can set a bound, or
                    prescribe a measure, to its voluntary deviations from the line of duty. We have
                    been supposing a case in which these deviations are extremely minute, and yet so
                    numerous as to form as it were a circle round the heart—a circle of evil.
                    Imagine, then, this circle widening, and widening, year after year, through the
                    seasons of youth and maturity, and the dreary winter of old age. What an awful
                    and melancholy spectacle does the state of that heart present, enclosed as it
                    were in a deleterious atmosphere, and growing perpetually colder and more
                    callous by exclusion from the blessed light of heaven.
                
                Oh! let us not begin to breathe this deadly atmosphere! And you who
                    are yet inexperienced in the ways of human life, whose habits are not formed,
                    whose paths not chosen, whose line of conduct not decided, what a blessing would
                    it be to you, both in this world and in the world to come, were you to choose
                    that better part, that would enable you to look with a single eye
                    to what is most acceptable in the Divine sight, and most in accordance with the
                    will of God; leaving the embellishments of person, the luxuries of taste, and
                    the appropriation of worldly esteem, to be enjoyed or relinquished with a
                    grateful and contented mind, just as your heavenly Father may permit; and
                    bearing always about with you, as a talisman against the encroachments of evil,
                    even in the most simple or most specious form, the remembrance that none of
                    these things are worthy of a single wish, if they must necessarily be obtained
                    by the violation of his laws, or accompanied by the tokens of his
                    displeasure.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER XIII.
                HABITS AND CHARACTER—INTELLECTUAL ATTAINMENTS—EMPLOYMENT OF
                    TIME—MORAL COURAGE—RIGHT BALANCE OF MIND.
                TO those gentle readers, who have been kind enough to accompany me
                    through the foregoing pages, and who feel inclined to exercise their forbearance
                    through a few more, I feel that some apology, or rather some explanation, is
                    necessary for the manner in which I have so often been compelled to speak of the
                    extraordinary ambition manifested by my countrywomen, in the present day, to
                    make themselves mistress of every possible variety of intellectual attainment
                    that can be acquired at school; and I cannot help fearing, that many of my
                    remarks may appear to have been written with a view to depreciate the value of
                    these treasures of mind, and, as far as my single influence may extend, to deter
                    others from the pursuit of them.
                So far from this, I would repeat, if possible, in words which could not be forgotten, my firm conviction, that no human being
                    can learn too much, so that their sphere of intelligence does not extend to what
                    is evil. But, while the accumulation of a vast store of knowledge is one of the
                    objects we have in view in the culture of the mind, we must not forget that it
                    is by no means the only one. In rearing an infant, we not only
                    supply its appetite with food, but also find it necessary to teach it the habit,
                    and assist it in the power, of exercising its limbs; we guide its steps, and, as
                    far as we are able, give it just notions of exercising its bodily functions with
                    the best effect.
                To feed the mind, then, is but a small part of our duty. If we leave it helpless
                    and inert, without ability to exercise its various powers, and judgment to
                    exercise them aright, the most important portion of that duty is neglected. Thus
                    far, I believe, all who are employed in teaching the young, will go along with
                    me, for their experience must afford strong evidence in favour of this
                    statement. There are some points, however, in which, it appears to me, they have
                    allowed the fashion of the times to render their system of instruction extremely
                    defective. But, for this, I am by no means prepared to say, that they are in any
                    degree to blame; because they have the taste of the times to consult; and, they would obtain little credit for making
                    our young women what they ought to be, if that taste was not correct.
                With regard to moral discipline, or that mode of instruction by which women would
                    be fitted for their domestic and social duties, I have expressed my opinion in
                    an earlier chapter of this work; and, with regard to intellectual culture, I
                    hope to be pardoned if I now venture a few remarks.
                It appears to me, in looking abroad upon society, and contemplating the immense
                    variety of mental attainments which prevail amongst the young women of the
                    present day, that they are in imminent danger of supposing, when they have
                    acquired a vast amount of verbal knowledge, that the great work of education is
                    done. They are, in short, in danger of mistaking the means for the end; and of
                    resting satisfied that they are wiser than the generation before them.
                In the acquirement of languages, this is particularly the case. A young lady
                    obtains the reputation of being clever, when she has made herself mistress of
                    several languages; and with this she is generally satisfied; while she ought to
                    remember that she has but gained possession, as it were, of the
                        keys of vast storehouses of knowledge, for the use of which she
                    is responsible to society.
                
                Our young ladies are made acquainted while at school, with the dates of most of
                    the leading events of history, with the years when certain kings began to reign,
                    and the precise time of their holding the reins of government. The various
                    devices for impressing these events upon their recollection, are no less
                    ingenious than commendable; but could any plan be adopted for enabling them to
                    draw conclusions from such facts, to compare historical events with each other,
                    to trace the progress of civilization, and to ascertain what circumstances have
                    most invariably led to the rise or the fall of different empires—instead of
                    being confined to isolated facts, their conversation would then be fraught with
                    the richer burden of those important truths, for which history supplies nothing
                    more than illustration.
                Again, in the pursuit of science, there is a technicality that strikes the ear,
                    and gives an idea of vast superiority in the way of attainments; and there are
                    facts that may be impressed upon the memory, without the mind being in any way
                    enlarged, or enlightened by the reception of them. It is easy, for instance, to
                    talk of botany, without the thoughts at any time extending themselves to the
                    general economy of vegetation; and of astronomy, so as to tell the distances of
                        different planets, without the soul being
                    penetrated by one ray of illumination from the wisdom which designed, and which
                    controls the starry heavens. It is easy to attend a few scientific lectures, and
                    to return home talking of the names of gases, and of some of the most striking
                    phenomena of electricity, the galvanic battery, and other popular exhibitions of
                    the lecture-room; but it requires a totally different process of mind, to take a
                    general survey of the laws of the universe, and to bow before the conviction
                    that all must have been created by a hand divine.
                From our observations of rural or romantic scenery, it is easy to babble about
                    woods and waterfalls, about the ruggedness of mountains, and the grandeur of the
                    raging sea; but it does not follow as a necessary consequence that we have
                    formed any conception of the idea of abstract beauty, or of the reverential, but
                    admiring awe, which true sublimity is calculated to inspire. It does not follow
                    that we shall have learned to embody in the elements of nature, those subtler
                    essences of spirit and of mind, which, to the poetical and imaginative, people
                    every desert, and render vocal with melody the silence of night.
                It may be said, that in this busy world, there is little employment for the
                    imagination—little scope for the exercise of
                    poetical associations. I grant—for I am compelled to do so—that poetry should be
                    elbowed out of our working world to make room for machinery; but I see no reason
                    why the same train of thought, and course of reasoning, should not be carried
                    on. I grant that the materials are different; but why should we not still
                    endeavour to raise an altar in our minds for a higher, holier worship than that
                    of the mammon of this world? Why should we fix our attention solely upon the
                    material part of the universe, satisfying ourselves with the names of
                    substantial things, with their variety, classification, and physical properties?
                    Why should we confine ourselves to counting the pillars in the temple of nature,
                    computing its magnitude and measuring its height, without referring our
                    calculations, through the highest range of imagination, to the wonder-working
                    power of the great Artificer?
                It may be said, that we dwell too much in cities, and lead too artificial a life,
                    to be able to perceive the instrumentality of Divine Wisdom in all the events
                    that pass beneath our observation. If this be the case, there is the more need
                    that we should rouse ourselves by fresh efforts, to penetrate beyond the
                    polished surface of the world in which we live, into the deeper mysteries that
                        lie beyond—there is the more need that we
                    should endeavour to perceive, in the practical affairs of busy life, those great
                    principles by which the laws of nature are governed, and the system of the
                    universe upheld.
                If, for instance, we live in the heart of a thickly-peopled city, with the rush
                    of its busy multitudes around us, and the labour of man's hand, and the efforts
                    of his ingenuity, perpetually before our eyes, there is no reason why we should
                    look only at the splendour of its manufactured articles, amuse our fancy with
                    the outward aspect of its varied exhibitions of art, or regard with disgust the
                    occupations of the mechanic, because he handles the raw material, and touches
                    what is gross. Would it not be more consistent with the exercise of an
                    enlightened mind, to contemplate the wonders of that power which the Creator has
                    entrusted to the use of man, so that he lays hold, as it were, of the elements
                    of nature, and makes them submit to his will?
                Night falls not with stillness and repose upon the city, but we walk as through a
                    living blaze: and shall we pass on, like children, pleased with the glitter and
                    the show, without reflecting that man has been able to convert the darkest
                    substance from the bowels of the earth into the very source of all this light? Mountains and valleys, tracts of land and
                    floods of water, intervene between us and our distant friends; but we fly to
                    them with a rapidity, which, a few years ago, would have been pronounced, even
                    by philosophers, impossible. And shall we move like senseless matter, even
                    through the very heart of the mountain, calculating only the speed at which we
                    travel, without awaking to the momentous fact, that by the ingenuity of man,
                    mere vapour, proverbial as it is for its weakness, emptiness, and nothingness in
                    the creation, has been converted into the master-power by which the mighty
                    operations of men are carried on. We take our daily walks through the bustling
                    city, and gaze at the splendid exhibitions of taste, and learn the names of
                    those who are most skilled in music and painting, and all the sister arts; and
                    we speak in the cant terms that are most in vogue, and think we display
                    superiority of mind and intelligence to use them well; but should we not at the
                    same time cultivate the habit of bearing in remembrance the unchanging
                    principles of beauty, and of referring back to them whatever is offered to our
                    admiration in the form of art?
                We speak of the degrading cares and sordid views that occupy the working world;
                    but how have we endeavoured to pass beyond these, and to connect them with the world of thought? We hear of
                    the vast amount of labour carried on, and the relative expenses incurred, and
                    the different things that can be made and done within a given time: but why
                    should we not sometimes make a transition of thought from the material, to the
                    means of working it—from the means, to the power—and from the power that is
                    imparted, to the Creator who imparts. To-day the mechanic plies his busy tools.
                    To-morrow his hand may have become rigid and motionless beneath the stroke of
                    death. Thousands and tens of thousands pass away from the scene of their
                    labours, but the labour still goes on; for the laws of nature change not, and
                    the principles upon which the labour of man is carried into effect, remain the
                    same.
                As with one accord, our young ladies appear to have come to the determination of
                    dismissing from their minds even the faintest apprehension of the subject of
                    political economy, except when garnished to their taste by an attractive story;
                    nor could this be wondered at, were the subject necessarily associated with the
                    vulgarity of party politics. But they seem to forget that the coarse jargon of
                    popular excitement, has little to do with the spirit of their country's laws,
                    the policy of her negociations, the benevolence and wisdom of her institutions; and the principles of justice by which
                    her integrity is upheld. A little attention properly bestowed upon these
                    subjects would enable women, not only to converse with men upon some of their
                    favourite themes; but what is of more importance, to lead them away by
                    imperceptible degrees, from those partial views which are the result of
                    prejudice, those violent expressions which ignorance alone can justify, and that
                    personality of remark so destructive to the peace and good will of society.
                We are too apt, because we mingle in populous and busy scenes, and feel the
                    necessity of moving with the tide, to forget that what we see and hear, what is
                    obvious to the senses and palpable to the touch, is not all that we live for, or
                    even all that we live amongst. We should endeavour to find breathing-times even
                    amidst the hurry and the rush of present things. We should sometimes pause
                    amongst the multitude, and listen mentally, to the beating of the mighty pulse
                    of a tumultuous city, and ask, whether the Creator and Sustainer of this living
                    mass is not beholding the operation of the various powers he has set in motion,
                    marking its defects, supplying its deficiences, and sustaining the stupendous
                    whole. We should then be enabled to perceive something of the working of the
                        inner plan, how one class of human beings
                    depends upon another—how the principles of justice establish checks and
                    counter-checks, so that no single power shall be predominant; how poverty and
                    riches alternate, and how the vices of the bad are made to call forth the
                    virtues of the good; and by renewing our conviction that God is indeed here, as
                    well as present to the more peaceful and harmonious portions of his creation, we
                    should renew our faith, and enjoy perpetual refreshment for our souls.
                What we most want in education, then, is to invest material things with the
                    attributes of mind; and we want this more and more, as commerce, and arts, and
                    manufactures increase in importance and extent. We want it more and more, to
                    give interest to our familiar and necessary occupations; and we want it,
                    especially, that we may assist in redeeming the character of English
                        men from the mere animal, or rather, the mere mechanical state,
                    into which, from the nature and urgency of their occupations, they are in danger
                    of falling.
                We want it also for ourselves; for a time seems to be approaching, when the
                    middle class of society in England will have to be subdivided; and when the
                    lower portion of this class will of 
                        neces-
                        necessity
                     sity have to turn their attention to
                    a different style of living, and to different modes of occupation, thought, and
                    feeling. At present all this class are educated nearly upon the same plan. The
                    happiness of society, and our moral necessities, will surely, before long,
                    suggest the importance of females of this class being fitted for something very
                    different from drawing-room exhibitions.
                All that I have written in this volume, imperfect as it is, has been stimulated
                    by a desire to increase the moral worth of my countrywomen, and enhance the
                    domestic happiness of my native land. In order that this should be done
                    effectually, it seems to me indispensably necessary, that women, whose parents
                    are possessed of slender means, or engaged in business, and who can with extreme
                    difficulty accomplish even so much as what is called “making their way,”—that
                    women in this class should be educated, not simply for ladies, but for useful
                    and active members of society—and for this purpose, that they also should
                    consider it no degradation to render their activity conducive to the purposes of
                    trade.
                It is a curious anomaly in the structure of modern society, that gentlemen may
                    employ their hours of business in almost any degrading 
                        occupa-
                        occupation
                     tion, and, if they have but the
                    means of supporting a respectable establishment at home, may be gentlemen still;
                    while, if a lady does but touch any article, no matter how delicate, in the way
                    of of trade, she loses caste, and ceases to be a lady.
                I say this with all possible respect for those who have the good sense and the
                    moral courage to employ themselves in the business of their fathers and their
                    husbands, rather than to remain idle and dependent; because I know that many of
                    them are ladies in the best acceptation of the word—ladies in the
                    delicacy and propriety of their feelings, and more than ladies in the noble
                    dignity of their general conduct. Still I doubt not they have had their
                    difficulties to encounter from the influence of public opinion, and that their
                    generous feelings have been often wounded by the vulgar prejudices prevailing in
                    society against their mode of life.
                With the improvements of art, and the increase of manufactures, there must be an
                    increased demand for mechanics and work-people of every description; and
                    supposing English society to be divided, as it soon must be, into four classes,
                    there surely can be no reason why the second class of females should not be so
                    trained, as to partake in the advantages resulting from this extended sphere of active and useful occupation.—The only
                    field at present open for what is considered lady-like employment, is that of
                    educating the young; and hence the number of accomplished young women, too
                    refined for common usefulness, whose claims to public attention as governesses
                    tend so much to reduce the value of their services in that important sphere.
                There are, however, many descriptions of occupation connected with business in
                    its varied forms, which are by no means polluting to the touch, or degrading to
                    the mind; and it would be an unspeakable advantage to hundreds of young females,
                    if, instead of useless accomplishments, they could be instructed in these. In
                    addition to all kinds of fancy millinery, the entire monopoly of which they
                    might surely be permitted to enjoy, I would point out especially to their
                    attention, the art of engraving, which might very properly call into exercise
                    the taste and ingenuity of the female sex, without taxing too severely their
                    mental or bodily powers. To this I would add, the art of drawing patterns for
                    the muslin and calico printers, an occupation which appears peculiarly adapted
                    to the female taste, and which might be carried on without the least
                    encroachment upon the seclusion of domestic life, and the delicacy of the female
                        character. I have been led to understand
                    that this branch of business is almost exclusively carried on by men; and I
                    cannot but regret, that an employment, which offers a tempting luxury to those
                    who suffer from the combined evils of idleness and scanty means, should not also
                    be rendered productive of pecuniary benefit to women.
                It seems, however, to be from this pecuniary benefit that they shrink; for when
                    we observe the nature of their daily occupations, their common stitchery, their
                    worsted work, their copied music, their ingeniously-invented articles for
                    bazaars, it should be difficult to say in what sense they are more agreeable, or
                    more dignified, than many branches of art connected with trade. It must
                    therefore be the fact of receiving money for what they do, which renders the
                    latter so objectionable; and it is a strange paradox in our daily experience,
                    that this money should all the while be the very thing of which they are most in
                    want.
                The degradation of what is vulgarly called making their own living,
                    is, I believe, the obstacle of paramount difficulty; and therefore it is to
                    reduce this difficulty, and to render it more easily surmountable, that our
                    solicitude for the well-being of society, with all our influence, and all our
                    talent, ought to be employed.
                
                It is in vain to argue in such cases, that individuals have no right to think and
                    feel as they do—that women ought to be wiser than to consider
                    themselves degraded by working for their own subsistence; while such is the
                    constitution of society, and such the early bias of the female mind, that it is
                    almost impossible they should do otherwise. The great point to be gained, is to
                    penetrate at once to the root of the matter, and to begin by a different system
                    of education, to render moral courage—the courage to do what is right—the first
                    principle of female conduct.
                What a world of misery this single principle of action, thoroughly grafted into
                    the character, would spare the sons and daughters of men!
                I am inclined to think the foundation of moral courage must be laid in very early
                    life, so as to render it effectual in bearing us up under the trials of maturer
                    age; and it is not only to elevate the general character of my countrywomen, but
                    to spare them at least half the sufferings they now endure, that I would most
                    earnestly recommend them, in cultivating the mind, to cultivate also the
                    inestimable power of exercising moral courage, whenever the claims of duty are
                    set in opposition to the opinions of the world.
                For want of moral courage, how many 
                        misun-
                        misunderstandings
                     derstandings do we leave unsettled
                    amongst our friends, until, 
                        “The lightly uttered, careless word,”
                     the thoughtless action, or the false report, are allowed to poison the very
                    springs of affection, and to separate the dearest friends. For want of moral
                    courage, how often, and how fatally, do we fail in the sacred duty of reproving
                    what we see amiss, until the evil grows, and magnifies, and extends itself, and
                    becomes so obvious to general perception, that we scruple not to join in its
                    condemnation, forgetting that our own want of faithfulness may possibly be
                    chargeable with its existence.
                For want of moral courage, how do we sink, and see others sinking every day,
                    under the pressure of those pecuniary difficulties which I have already
                    described, until we are guilty of almost every species of paltry meanness, to
                    support an appearance of respectability before the world, forgetting that the
                    grand foundation of all respectability of character, is an honourable,
                    independent, and upright mind. For want of moral courage, how often do we stoop
                    and cringe, and submit to contumely, and eat the bread of humiliation, and wear
                    the rich garments that ought to cover us with shame, because we are despicable
                    enough to live upon what is not lawfully our
                    own, and what is often granted without good-will, and received without
                    satisfaction.
                Oh! that the women of England would rouse themselves with one accord, to break
                    these galling chains!—to exemplify in their own conduct, and to teach their
                    daughters, that there is no earthly enjoyment, no personal embellishment, no
                    selfish gratification, worth the sacrifice of just and honourable feeling—that
                    the humblest occupation, undertaken from a sense of duty, becomes ennobled in
                    the motive by which it is prompted, and that the severest self-denial may be
                    blessed and honoured by the Father of mercies, if endured in preference to an
                    infringement upon those laws which he has laid down for the government of the
                    human family.
                There is another point of view, in which it appears to me that the present
                    character of the women of England is extremely defective. It is as regards a
                    right balance of mind; or, in other words, a just estimate of the relative
                    importance of things in general.
                From the natural construction of the mind of woman, from the quickness of her
                    perceptions, and the intensity of her momentary feelings, she is apt to lay hold
                    of every thing calculated immediately to
                    strike her fancy, or to excite her emotions, with an earnestness that excludes
                    the possibility of her mind being kept alive to other impressions, even more
                    essential to her happiness, and more important in themselves.
                Hence we find in society, that women too frequently invest the affairs of the
                    moment, the circumstances occurring around them, and their own personal
                    experience, with a degree of interest wholly incomprehensible to strangers, and
                    often utterly contemptible to men. I do not—I will not believe—that women are
                    inferior to what is called the noble sex, in the moral world; but I do believe
                    that from this very cause arises more than half the contumely bestowed upon
                    their littleness of character. It is not that they want capacity or
                    understanding to judge of many things as well as men. It is that they are so
                    occupied with what is obvious on the surface of things, that they will not look
                    beyond; and hence their unceasing propensity to trifle, and to render themselves
                    apparently inferior to what they really are.
                This is the great leading defect in woman's character; and it is the more to be
                    regretted, that it presents to her mind innumerable sources of disquietude,
                    which with a more correct perception of the relative value of things, she might
                        escape. She is apt, for instance, to
                    attach as much importance, for the time, to the failure of her own musical
                    performance, as to the failure of a bank; and she appears to care little for the
                    invasion of a foreign country, when injury is threatened to her best attire. It
                    is no trifling humiliation to those who mix in society, if they have been
                    accustomed to raise their views a little higher in the contemplation of nature
                    and of human life, to be perpetually persecuted, in the midst of agreeable and
                    intelligent conversation, with questions about the minutiæ of dress and conduct
                    in some limited and local sphere of observation.
                I would not speak thus contemptuously of the familiar habits of my sex, if I did
                    not know that they were capable of something better, and if I did not desire—as
                    I desire their good and their happiness—that they would rouse themselves above
                    this paltry littleness, and learn to become, what I am confident they might be,
                    not only equal, but interesting and instructive companions to men.
                I have before remarked, that there is now, more than ever, a demand for the
                    exercise of their highest powers, and their noblest energies, to counteract the
                    effects of unremitting toil in obtaining the perishing things of this life.
                    There is a greater demand than ever upon their
                    capabilities of enhancing social and domestic happiness; and there is an equal
                    demand for the exercise I have already recommended, of the power they possess of
                    investing what is material with the attributes of mind.
                The littleness of character I have just described, is one of the chief causes why
                    they are not so estimable as they might be in their homes, or so interesting as
                    they are capable of being in their conversation with men. And thus their
                    husbands and their brothers are becoming increasingly attracted by the political
                    associations, and the public calls, now leading them away from those domestic
                    scenes which offer little to excite the attention, or fascinate the mind.
                It may be said, that English women in the present day are, in this respect at
                    least, superior to the generation before them. But granting that they are so,
                    the necessity for further improvement remains the same, because the habits of
                    men are progressively involving them more deeply in the interests of public
                    life; so that unless some strenuous efforts are made on the part of women, the
                    far-famed homes of England will lose their boasted happiness, and with their
                    happiness, their value in the scale of our country's moral worth.
                
                This is a serious subject, and one which ought to appeal to every mother's bosom
                    throughout our favoured land. It ought to be the solemn inquiry of every woman
                    who has the sacred duty of training up the young committed to her trust, in what
                    manner she may best guard against this growing evil, so as to stem the
                    desolating tide which seems to threaten our domestic peace.
                Let her, then, after this solemn inquiry has been made, endeavour to place
                    herself in idea in the situation of a traveller who ascends a mountain, and look
                    upon the varied aspects of human life as he regards the scene presented to his
                    view. At first he will be struck with the magnitude of the rock he is climbing,
                    amused perhaps with the plants that creep along its surface, and astonished with
                    the opening out of distant valleys, and broad rivers rolling between other
                    hills, amongst which his eye had never penetrated before. He advances a little
                    higher, and sees other views extending far and wide, and the pinnacle of rock he
                    at first thought so stupendous, diminishing beneath his feet—higher still, and
                    the broad river, with its sweeping tide, has shrunk into a silver thread—still
                    higher, and the pinnacle of rock is imperceptible, and he feels at last that he
                    has gained the actual summit of the highest
                    mountain, where he can compare the real height and distances of objects, and
                    perceive how limited in comparison was the line which formed the original
                    boundary of his vision—how small and low, and comparatively contemptible,the
                    highest eminence to which he had then ascended.
                It is in this manner that we ought to accustom ourselves to realize those views
                    of human life, and that estimate of sublunary things, that would bring all to
                    the standard of their real worth.
                Judged of by this process, and tried by this rule, how differently should we
                    appreciate the ordinary and familiar affairs of life. How little should we find
                    to occupy our thoughts, or engage our affections, in the trifles that now
                    constitute the actual business of our lives—how much should we find to admire
                    and value in what we now despise!
                It is to mothers, especially, that I would recommend this method of adjusting the
                    balance of the infant mind, because the longer the weights are allowed to remain
                    unequal, and the balance untrue, the more extensive must be the evil resulting
                    from the erroneous data upon which the youthful mind will reason. And let them
                    remember, that while the mistakes of their management will probably be exhibited
                    more strikingly in the conduct of their sons,
                    their daughters will extend the evil to a wider range of operation, by
                    instilling it again into the minds of another generation.
                It is not through a lifetime only, though that were sufficient for our follies—it
                    may be through the endless ages of eternity, that our good or evil influence
                    shall extend. I have pointed out to my countrywomen, as I pursued this work, the
                    high ambition of preserving a nation from the dangers which threaten the
                    destruction of its moral worth; but beyond this view, wide and exalted as it
                    unquestionably is, there opens out a field of glory, upon which to enter might
                    seem blessedness enough. Yet, when we contemplate the possibility of being the
                    means of inducing others to enter with us, and those the most beloved of earth's
                    treasures, surely it is worthy of our best energies—our most fervent zeal—our
                    tears—our prayers—that we may so use our influence, and so employ our means, as
                    that those whose happiness has been committed to our care, may partake with us
                    in the enjoyment of the mansions of eternal rest.
            
            THE END.
            FISHER, SONS, & CO., LONDON.
        
    
