
     ----CITATION----
        Nesbit, E. (Edith) (1858-1924). The Enchanted Castle. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 482 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2000-Nov-16).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7058
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    THE ENCHANTED CASTLE
                
                By E. NESBIT
                Illustrated by H.R. MILLAR
                
                    COWARD-McCANN, INC.
                    NEW YORK CITY
                
                
                Made and Printed in Great Britain
            
            
                
                TO MARGARET OSTLER WITH LOVE FROM E. NESBIT
                
                    Peggy, you came from the heath and moor,
                    And you brought their airs through my open door;
                    You brought the blossom of youth to blow
                    In the Latin Quarter of Soho.
                
                
                    For the sake of that magic I send you here
                    A tale of enchantments, Peggy dear,
                    —A bit of my work, and a bit of my heart...
                    The bit that you left when we had to part.
                
                
                    ROYALTY CHAMBERS, SOHO, W. September 25, 1907
                
            
        
        
            
            The Enchanted Castle
            
                CHAPTER I
                THERE were three of them—Jerry, Jimmy, and Kathleen. Of course, Jerry's
                    name was Gerald, and not Jeremiah, whatever you may think; and Jimmy's name was
                    James; and Kathleen was never called by her name at all, but Cathy, or Catty, or
                    Puss Cat, when her brothers were pleased with her, and Scratch Cat when they
                    were not pleased. And they were at school in a little town in the West of
                    England—the boys at one school, of course, and the girl at another, because the
                    sensible habit of having boys and girls at the same school is not yet as common
                    as I hope it will be some day. They used to see each other on Saturdays and
                    Sundays at the house of a kind maiden lady; but it was one of those houses where
                    it is impossible to play. You know the kind of house, don't you? There is a sort
                    of a something about that kind of house that makes you hardly able even to talk
                    to each other when you are left alone, and
                    playing seems unnatural and affected. So they looked forward to the holidays,
                    when they should all go home and be together all day long, in a house where
                    playing was natural and conversation possible, and where the Hampshire forests
                    and fields were full of interesting things to do and see. Their Cousin Betty was
                    to be there, too, and there were plans. Betty's school broke up before theirs,
                    and so she got to the Hampshire home first, and the moment she got there she
                    began to have measles, so that my three couldn't go home at all. You may imagine
                    their feelings. The thought of seven weeks at Miss Hervey's was not to be borne,
                    and all three wrote home and said so. This astonished their parents very much,
                    because they had always thought it was so nice for the children to have dear
                    Miss Hervey's to go to. However, they were “jolly decent about it,” as Jerry
                    said, and after a lot of letters and telegrams, it was arranged that the boys
                    should go and stay at Kathleen's school, where there were now no girls left and
                    no mistresses except the French one.
                “It'll be better than being at Miss Hervey's,” said Kathleen, when the boys came
                    round to ask Mademoiselle when it would be convenient for them to come; “and,
                    besides, out school's not half so ugly as yours. We do have tablecloths on the
                    tables and curtains at the windows, and yours is all deal boards, and desks, and
                    inkiness.”
                When they had gone to pack their boxes Kathleen made all the rooms as pretty
                        as she could with flowers in jam
                    jars—marigolds chiefly, because there was nothing much else in the back garden.
                    There were geraniums in the front garden, and calceolarias and lobelias; of
                    course, the children were not allowed to pick these.
                “We ought to have some sort of play to keep us going through the holidays,” said
                    Kathleen, when tea was over, and she had unpacked and arranged the boy's clothes
                    in the painted chests of drawers, feeling very grown-up and careful as she
                    neatly laid the different sorts of clothes in tidy little heaps in the drawers.
                    “Suppose we write a book.”
                “You couldn't,” said Jimmy.
                “I didn't mean me, of course,” said Kathleen, a little injured; “I meant us.”
                “Too much fag,” said Gerald briefly.
                “If we wrote a book,” Kathleen persisted, “about what the insides of schools
                    really are like, people would read it and say how clever we
                    were.”
                “Most likely expel us,” said Gerald. “No; we'll have an out-of-doors
                    game—bandits, or something like that. It wouldn't be bad if we could get a cave
                    and keep stores in it, and have our meals there.”
                “There aren't any caves,” said Jimmy, who was fond of contradicting every one.
                    “And, besides, your precious Mamselle won't let us go out alone, as likely as
                    not.”
                “Oh, we'll see about that,” said Gerald. “I'll go and talk to her like a
                    father.”
                
                “Like that?” Kathleen pointed the thumb of scorn at him, and he looked in the
                    glass.
                “To brush his hair and his clothes and to wash his face and hands was to our hero
                    but the work of a moment,” said Gerald, and went to suit the action to the
                    word.
                It was a very sleek boy, brown and thin and interesting-looking, that knocked at
                    the door of the parlour where Mademoiselle sat reading a yellow-covered book and
                    wishing vain wishes. Gerald could always make himself look interesting at a
                    moment's notice, a very useful accomplishment in dealing with strange grown-ups.
                    It was done by opening his grey eyes rather wide, allowing the corners of his
                    mouth to droop, and assuming a gentle, pleading expression, resembling that of
                    the late little Lord Fauntleroy—who must, by the way, be quite old now, and an
                    awful prig.
                “Entrez!” said Mademoiselle, in shrill French accents. So he entered.
                “Eh bien?” she said rather impatiently.
                “I hope I am not disturbing you,” said Gerald, in whose mouth, it seemed, butter
                    would not have melted.
                “But no,” she said, somewhat softened. “What is it that you desire?”
                “I thought I ought to come and say how do you do,” said Gerald, “because of you
                    being the lady of the house.”
                He held out the newly-washed hand, still damp and red. She took it.
                “You are a very polite little boy,” she said.
                
                “Not at all,” said Gerald, more polite than ever. “I am so sorry for you. It must
                    be dreadful to have us to look after in the holidays.”
                “But not at all,” said Mademoiselle in her turn. “I am sure you will be very good
                    childrens.”
                Gerald's look assured her that he and the others would be as near angels as
                    children could be without ceasing to be human.
                “We'll try,” he said earnestly.
                “Can one do anything for you?” asked the French governess kindly.
                “Oh, no, thank you,” said Gerald. “We don't want to give you any trouble at all.
                    And I was thinking it would be less trouble for you if we were to go out into
                    the woods all day to-morrow and take our dinner with us—something cold, you
                    know—so as not to be a trouble to the cook.”
                “You are very considerate,” said Mademoiselle coldly. Then Gerald's eyes smiled;
                    they had a trick of doing this when his lips were quite serious. Mademoiselle
                    caught the twinkle, and she laughed and Gerald laughed too.
                “Little deceiver!” she said. “Why not say at once you want to be free of surveillance, how you say—overwatching—without
                    pretending it is me you wish to please?”
                “You have to be careful with grown-ups,” said Gerald, “but it isn't all pretence
                    either. We don't want to trouble you—and we don't want you to—”
                
                
                “To trouble you. Eh bien! Your parents, they permit these days at woods?”
                “Oh, yes,” said Gerald truthfully.
                “Then I will not be more a dragon than the parents. I will forewarn the cook. Are
                    you content?”
                “Rather!” said Gerald. “Mademoiselle, you are a dear.”
                “A deer?” she repeated—“a stag?”
                “No, a—a chérie,” said Gerald—“a regular A1
                        chérie. And you shan't repent it. Is there
                    anything we can do for you—wind your wool, or find your spectacles, or——?”
                “He thinks me a grandmother!” said Mademoiselle, laughing more than ever. “Go
                    then, and be not more naughty than you must.”
                
                “Well, what luck?” the others asked.
                “It's all right,” said Gerald indifferently. “I told you it would be. The
                    ingenuous youth won the regard of the foreign governess, who in her youth had
                    been the beauty of her humble village.”
                “I don't believe she ever was. She's too stern,” said Kathleen.
                “Ah!” said Gerald, “that's only because you don't know how to manage her. She
                    wasn't stern with me.”
                “I say, what a humbug you are though, aren't you?” said Jimmy.
                “No, I'm a dip—what's-its-name? Something like an ambassador.
                    Dipsoplomatist—that's what I am. Anyhow, we've got our day, and if we don't find a cave in it my name's not Jack
                    Robinson.”
                Mademoiselle, less stern than Kathleen had ever seen her, presided at supper,
                    which was bread and treacle spread several hours before, and now harder and
                    drier than any other food you can think of. Gerald was very polite in handing
                    her butter and cheese, and pressing her to taste the bread and treacle.
                “Bah! it is like sand in the mouth—of a dryness! Is it possible this pleases
                    you?”
                “No,” said Gerald, “it is not possible, but it is not polite for boys to make
                    remarks about their food!”
                She laughed, but there was no more dried bread and treacle for supper after
                    that.
                “How do you do it?” Kathleen whispered admiringly as they said
                    good-night.
                “Oh, it's quite easy when you've once got a grown-up to see what you're after.
                    You'll see, I shall drive her with a rein of darning cotton after this.”
                Next morning Gerald got up early and gathered a little bunch of pink carnations
                    from a plant which he found hidden among the marigolds. He tied it up with black
                    cotton and laid it on Mademoiselle's plate. She smiled and looked quite handsome
                    as she stuck the flowers in her belt.
                “Do you think it's quite decent,” Jimmy asked later—“sort of bribing people to
                    let you do as you like with flowers and things and passing them the salt?”
                
                “It's not that,” said Kathleen suddenly. “I know what Gerald means,
                    only I never think of the things in time myself. You see, if you want grown-ups
                    to be nice to you the least you can do is to be nice to them and think of little
                    things to please them. I never think of any myself. Jerry does; that's why all
                    the old ladies like him. It's not bribery. It's a sort of honesty—like paying
                    for things.”
                “Well, anyway,” said Jimmy, putting away the moral question, “we've got a ripping
                    day for the woods.”
                They had.
                The wide High Street, even at the busy morning hour almost as quiet as a
                    dream-street, lay bathed in sunshine; the leaves shone fresh from last night's
                    rain, but the road was dry, and in the sunshine the very dust of it sparkled
                    like diamonds. The beautiful old houses, standing stout and strong, looked as
                    though they were basking in the sunshine and enjoying it.
                “But are there any woods?” asked Kathleen as they passed the
                    market-place.
                “It doesn't much matter about woods,” said Gerald dreamily, “we're sure to find
                        something. One of the chaps told me his father said when he was
                    a boy there used to be a little cave under the bank in a lane near the Salisbury
                    Road; but he said there was an enchanted castle there too, so perhaps the cave
                    isn't true either.”
                “If we were to get horns,” said Kathleen, “and
                    to blow them very hard all the way, we might find a magic castle.”
                “If you've got the money to throw away on horns...” said Jimmy
                    contemptuously.
                “Well, I have, as it happens, so there!” said Kathleen. And the horns were bought
                    in a tiny shop with a bulging window full of a tangle of toys and sweets and
                    cucumbers and sour apples.
                And the quiet square at the end of the town where the church is, and the houses
                    of the most respectable people, echoed to the sound of horns blown long and
                    loud. But none of the houses turned into enchanted castles.
                So they went along the Salisbury Road, which was very hot and dusty, so they
                    agreed to drink one of the bottles of gingerbeer.
                “We might as well carry the gingerbeer inside us as inside the bottle,” said
                    Jimmy, “and we can hide the bottle and call for it as we come back.”
                Presently they came to a place where the road, as Gerald said, went two ways at
                    once.
                “That looks like adventures,” said Kathleen; and they took the
                    right-hand road, and the next time they took a turning it was a left-hand one,
                    so as to be quite fair, Jimmy said, and then a right-hand one and then a left,
                    and so on, till they were completely lost.
                “Completely,” said Kathleen; “how jolly!”
                And now trees arched overhead, and the banks of the road were high and bushy. The
                    adventurers had long since ceased to blow their
                    horns. It was too tiring to go on doing that, when there was no one to be
                    annoyed by it.
                “Oh, kriky!” observed Jimmy suddenly, “let's sit down a bit and have some of our
                    dinner. We might call it lunch, you know,” he added persuasively.
                So they sat down in the hedge and ate the ripe red gooseberries that were to have
                    been their dessert.
                And as they sat and rested and wished that their boots did not feel so full of
                    feet, Gerald leaned back against the bushes, and the bushes gave way so that he
                    almost fell over backward. Something had yielded to the pressure of his back,
                    and there was the sound of something heavy that fell.
                “O Jimminy!” he remarked, recovering himself suddenly; “there's something hollow
                    in there—the stone I was leaning against simply went!”
                “I wish it was a cave,” said Jimmy; “but of course it isn't.”
                “If we blow the horns perhaps it will be,” said Kathleen, and hastily blew her
                    own.
                Gerald reached his hand through the bushes. “I can't feel anything but air,” he
                    said; “it's just a hole full of emptiness.” The other two pulled back the
                    bushes. There certainly was a hole in the bank. “I'm going to go in,” observed
                    Gerald.
                “Oh, don't!” said his sister. “I wish you wouldn't. Suppose there were
                    snakes!”
                “Not likely,” said Gerald, but he leaned forward
                    and struck a match. “It is a cave!” he cried, and put his knee on
                    the mossy stone he had been sitting on, scrambled over it, and disappeared.
                A breathless pause followed.
                “You all right?” asked Jimmy.
                “Yes; come on. You'd better come feet first—there's a bit of a drop.”
                “I'll go next,” said Kathleen, and went—feet first, as advised. The feet waved
                    wildly in the air.
                “Look out!” said Gerald in the dark; “you'll have my eye out. Put your feet
                        down, girl, not up. It's no use trying to fly here—there's no
                    room.”
                He helped her by pulling her feet forcibly down and then lifting her under the
                    arms. She felt rustling dry leaves under her boots, and stood ready to receive
                    Jimmy, who came in head first, like one diving into an unknown sea.
                “It is a cave,” said Kathleen.
                “The young explorers,” explained Gerald, blocking up the hole of entrance with
                    his shoulders, “dazzled at first by the darkness of the cave, could see
                    nothing.”
                “Darkness doesn't dazzle,” said Jimmy.
                “I wish we'd got a candle,” said Kathleen.
                “Yes, it does,” Gerald contradicted—“could see nothing. But their dauntless
                    leader, whose eyes had grown used to the dark while the clumsy forms of the
                    others were bunging up the entrance, had made a discovery.”
                
                
                
                “Oh, what!” Both the others were used to Gerald's way of telling a story while he
                    acted it, but they did sometimes wish that he didn't talk quite so long and so
                    like a book in moments of excitement.
                “He did not reveal the dread secret to his faithful followers till one and all
                    had given him their word of honour to be calm.”
                “We'll be calm all right,” said Jimmy impatiently.
                “Well, then,” said Gerald, ceasing suddenly to be a book and becoming a boy,
                    “there's a light over there—look behind you!”
                They looked. And there was. A faint greyness on the brown walls of the cave, and
                    a brighter greyness cut off sharply by a dark line, showed that round a turning
                    or angle of the cave there was daylight.
                “Attention!” said Gerald; at least, that was what he meant, though what he said
                    was “'Shun!” as becomes the son of a soldier. The others mechanically
                    obeyed.
                “You will remain at attention till I give the word ‘Slow march!’ on which you
                    will advance cautiously in open order, following your hero leader, taking care
                    not to tread on the dead and wounded.”
                “I wish you wouldn't!” said Kathleen.
                “There aren't any,” said Jimmy, feeling for her hand in the dark; “he only means,
                    take care not to tumble over stones and things.”
                Here he found her hand, and she screamed.
                “It's only me,” said Jimmy. “I thought you'd
                    like me to hold it. But you're just like a girl.”
                Their eyes had now begun to get accustomed to the darkness, and all could see
                    that they were in a rough stone cave, that went straight on for about three or
                    four yards and then turned sharply to the right.
                “Death or victory!” remarked Gerald. “Now, then—Slow march!”
                He advanced carefully, picking his way among the loose earth and stones that were
                    the floor of the cave. “A sail, a sail!” he cried, as he turned the corner.
                “How splendid!” Kathleen drew a long breath as she came out into the
                    sunshine.
                “I don't see any sail,” said Jimmy, following.
                The narrow passage ended in a round arch all fringed with ferns and creepers.
                    They passed through the arch into a deep, narrow gully whose banks were of
                    stones, moss-covered; and in the crannies grew more ferns and long grasses.
                    Trees growing on the top of the bank arched across, and the sunlight came
                    through in changing patches of brightness, turning the gully to a roofed
                    corridor of goldy-green. The path, which was of greeny-grey flagstones where
                    heaps of leaves had drifted, sloped steeply down, and at the end of it was
                    another round arch, quite dark inside, above which rose rocks and grass and
                    bushes.
                “It's like the outside of a railway tunnel,” said James.
                
                “It's the entrance to the enchanted castle,” said Kathleen. “Let's blow the
                    horns.”
                “Dry up!” said Gerald. “The bold Captain, reproving the silly chatter of his
                    subordinates——”
                “I like that!” said Jimmy, indignant.
                “I thought you would,” resumed Gerald—“of his subordinates, bade them advance
                    with caution and in silence, because after all there might be somebody about,
                    and the other arch might be an ice-house or something dangerous.”
                “What?” asked Kathleen anxiously.
                “Bears, perhaps,” said Gerald briefly.
                “There aren't any bears without bars—in England, anyway,” said Jimmy. “They call
                    bears bars in America,” he added absently.
                “Quick march!” was Gerald's only reply.
                And they marched. Under the drifted damp leaves the path was firm and stony to
                    their shuffling feet. At the dark arch they stopped.
                “There are steps down,” said Jimmy.
                “It is an ice-house,” said Gerald.
                “Don't let's,” said Kathleen.
                “Our hero,” said Gerald, “who nothing could dismay, raised the faltering hopes of
                    his abject minions by saying that he was jolly well going on, and they could do
                    as they liked about it.”
                “If you call names,” said Jimmy, “you can go on by yourself.” He added, “So
                    there!”
                “It's part of the game, silly,” explained Gerald kindly. “You can be Captain
                    to-morrow, so you'd better hold your jaw now, and begin to
                     think about what names you'll call us when
                    it's your turn.”
                Very slowly and carefully they went down the steps. A vaulted stone arched over
                    their heads. Gerald struck a match when the last step was found to have no edge,
                    and to be, in fact, the beginning of a passage, turning to the left.
                “This,” said Jimmy, “will take us back into the road.”
                “Or under it,” said Gerald. “We've come down eleven steps.”
                They went on, following their leader, who went very slowly for fear, as he
                    explained, of steps. The passage was very dark.
                “I don't half like it!” whispered Jimmy.
                Then came a glimmer of daylight that grew and grew, and presently ended in
                    another arch that looked out over a scene so like a picture out of a book about
                    Italy that every one's breath was taken away, and they simply walked forward
                    silent and staring. A short avenue of cypresses led, widening as it went, to a
                    marble terrace that lay broad and white in the sunlight. The children, blinking,
                    leaned their arms on the broad, flat balustrade and gazed. Immediately below
                    them was a lake—just like a lake in “The Beauties of Italy”—a lake with swans
                    and an island and weeping willows; beyond it were green slopes dotted with
                    groves of trees, and amid the trees gleamed the white limbs of statues. Against
                    a little hill to the left was a round white building with pillars, and to the
                    right a waterfall came tumbling down among
                    mossy stones to splash into the lake. Steps led from the terrace to the water,
                    and other steps to the green lawns beside it. Away across the grassy slopes deer
                    were feeding, and in the distance where the groves of trees thickened into what
                    looked almost a forest were enormous shapes of grey stone, like nothing that the
                    children had ever seen before.
                “That chap at school——” said Gerald.
                “It is an enchanted castle,” said Kathleen.
                “I don't see any castle,” said Jimmy.
                “What do you call that, then?” Gerald pointed to where, beyond a belt of
                    lime-trees, white towers and turrets broke the blue of the sky.
                “There doesn't seem to be any one about,” said Kathleen, “and yet it's all so
                    tidy. I believe it is magic.”
                “Magic mowing machines,” Jimmy suggested.
                “If we were in a book it would be an enchanted castle—certain to be,” said
                    Kathleen.
                “It is an enchanted castle,” said Gerald in hollow tones.
                “But there aren't any.” Jimmy was quite positive.
                “How do you know? Do you think there's nothing in the world but what
                        you've seen?” His scorn was crushing.
                “I think magic went out when people began to have steam-engines,” Jimmy insisted,
                    “and newspapers, and telephones and wireless telegraphing.”
                
                “Wireless is rather like magic when you come to think of it,” said Gerald.
                “Oh, that sort!” Jimmy's contempt was deep.
                “Perhaps there's given up being magic because people didn't believe in it any
                    more,” said Kathleen.
                “Well, don't let's spoil the show with any silly old not believing,” said Gerald
                    with decision. “I'm going to believe in magic as hard as I can. This is an
                    enchanted garden, and that's an enchanted castle, and I'm jolly well going to
                    explore. The dauntless knight then led the way, leaving his ignorant squires to
                    follow or not, just as they jolly well chose.” He rolled off the balustrade and
                    strode firmly down towards the lawn, his boots making, as they went, a clatter
                    full of determination.
                The others followed. There never was such a garden—out of a picture or a fairy
                    tale. They passed quite close by the deer, who only raised their pretty heads to
                    look, and did not seem startled at all. And after a long stretch of turf they
                    passed under the heaped-up heavy masses of lime-trees and came into a rose
                    garden, bordered with thick, close-cut yew hedges, and lying red and pink and
                    green and white in the sun, like a giant's many-coloured, highly-scented
                    pocket-handkerchief.
                “I know we shall meet a gardener in a minute, and he'll ask what we're doing
                    here. And then what will you say?” Kathleen asked with her nose in a rose.
                
                
                “I shall say we've lost our way, and it will be quite true,” said Gerald.
                But they did not meet a gardener or anybody else, and the feeling of magic got
                    thicker and thicker, till they were almost afraid of the sound of their feet in
                    the great silent place. Beyond the rose garden was a yew hedge with an arch cut
                    in it, and it was the beginning of a maze like the one in Hampton Court.
                “Now,” said Gerald, “you mark my words. In the middle of this maze we shall find
                    the secret enchantment. Draw your swords, my merry men all, and hark forward
                    tallyho in the utmost silence.”
                Which they did.
                It was very hot in the maze, between the close yew hedges, and the way to the
                    maze's heart was hidden well. Again and again they found themselves at the black
                    yew arch that opened on the rose garden, and they were all glad that they had
                    brought large, clean pocket-handkerchiefs with them.
                It was when they found themselves there for the fourth time that Jimmy suddenly
                    cried, “Oh, I wish—” and then stopped short very suddenly. “Oh!” he added in
                    quite a different voice, “where's the dinner?” And then in a stricken silence
                    they all remembered that the basket with the dinner had been left at the
                    entrance of the cave. Their thoughts dwelt fondly on the slices of cold mutton,
                    the six tomatoes, the bread and butter, the screwed-up paper of salt, the apple
                    turnovers, and the little thick glass that one
                    drank the gingerbeer out of.
                “Let's go back,” said Jimmy, “now this minute, and get our things and have our
                    dinner.”
                “Let's have one more try at the maze. I hate giving things up,” said Gerald.
                “I am so hungry!” said Jimmy.
                “Why didn't you say so before?” asked Gerald bitterly.
                “I wasn't before.”
                “Then you can't be now. You don't get hungry all in a minute. What's that?”
                “That” was a gleam of red that lay at the foot of the yew hedge—a thin little
                    line, that you would hardly have noticed unless you had been staring in a fixed
                    and angry way at the roots of the hedge.
                It was a thread of cotton. Gerald picked it up. One end of it was tied to a
                    thimble with holes in it, and the other——
                “There is no other end,” said Gerald, with firm triumph. “It's a
                    clue—that's what it is. What price cold mutton now? I've always felt something
                    magic would happen some day, and now it has.”
                “I expect the gardener put it there,” said Jimmy.
                “With a Princess's silver thimble on it? Look! there's a crown on the
                    thimble.”
                There was.
                “Come,” said Gerald in low, urgent tones, “if you are adventurers be
                    adventurers; and anyhow, I expect some one has
                    gone along the road and bagged the mutton hours ago.”
                He walked forward, winding the red thread round his fingers as he went. And it
                        was a clue, and it led them right into the middle of the maze.
                    And in the very middle of the maze they came upon the wonder.
                The red clue led them up two stone steps to a round grass plot. There was a
                    sun-dial in the middle, and all round against the yew hedge a low, wide marble
                    seat. The red clue ran straight across the grass and by the sun-dial, and ended
                    in a small brown hand with jewelled rings on every finger. The hand was,
                    naturally, attached to an arm, and that had many bracelets on it, sparkling with
                    red and blue and green stones. The arm wore a sleeve of pink and gold brocaded
                    silk, faded a little here and there but still extremely imposing, and the sleeve
                    was part of a dress, which was worn by a lady who lay on the stone seat asleep
                    in the sun. The rosy gold dress fell open over an embroidered petticoat of a
                    soft green colour. There was old yellow lace the colour of scalded cream, and a
                    thin white veil spangled with silver stars covered the face.
                “It's the enchanted Princess,” said Gerald, now really impressed. “I told you
                    so.”
                “It's the Sleeping Beauty,” said Kathleen. “It is—look how old-fashioned her
                    clothes are, like the pictures of Marie Antoinette's ladies in the history book.
                    She has slept for a hundred years. Oh, Gerald, you're the eldest; you must be
                    the Prince, and we never knew it.”
                
                
                “She isn't really a Princess,” said Jimmy. But the others laughed at him, partly
                    because his saying things like that was enough to spoil any game, and partly
                    because they really were not at all sure that it was not a Princess who lay
                    there as still as the sunshine. Every stage of the adventure—the cave, the
                    wonderful gardens, the maze, the clue, had deepened the feeling of magic, till
                    now Kathleen and Gerald were almost completely bewitched.
                “Lift the veil up, Jerry,” said Kathleen in a whisper; “if she isn't beautiful we
                    shall know she can't be the Princess.”
                “Lift it yourself,” said Gerald.
                “I expect you're forbidden to touch the figures,” said Jimmy.
                “It's not wax, silly,” said his brother.
                “No,” said his sister, “wax wouldn't be much good in this sun. And, besides, you
                    can see her breathing. It's the Princess right enough.” She very gently lifted
                    the edge of the veil and turned it back. The Princess's face was small and white
                    between long plaits of black hair. Her nose was straight and her brows finely
                    traced. There were a few freckles on cheek-bones and nose.
                “No wonder,” whispered Kathleen, “sleeping all these years in all this sun!” Her
                    mouth was not a rosebud. But all the same—
                “Isn't she lovely!” Kathleen murmured.
                “Not so dusty,” Gerald was understood to reply.
                “Now, Jerry,” said Kathleen firmly, “you're the eldest.”
                
                “Of course I am,” said Gerald uneasily.
                “Well, you've got to wake the Princess.”
                “She is not a Princess,” said Jimmy, with his hands in the pockets of his
                    knickerbockers; “she's only a little girl dressed up.”
                “But she's in long dresses,” urged Kathleen.
                “Yes, but look what a little way down her frock her feet come. She wouldn't be
                    any taller that Jerry if she was to stand up.”
                “Now then,” urged Kathleen. “Jerry, don't be silly. You've got to do it.”
                “Do what?” asked Gerald, kicking his left boot with his right.
                “Why, kiss her awake, of course.”
                “Not me!” was Gerald unhesitating rejoinder.
                “Well, some one's got to.”
                “She'd go for me as likely as not the minute she woke up,” said Gerald
                    anxiously.
                “I'd do it like a shot,” said Kathleen, “but I don't suppose it ud make any
                    difference me kissing her.”
                She did it; and it didn't. The Princess still lay in deep slumber.
                “Then you must, Jimmy. I daresay you'll do. Jump back quickly before she can hit
                    you.”
                “She won't hit him, he's such a little chap,” said Gerald.
                “Little yourself!” said Jimmy. “I don't mind kissing her. I'm not a
                    coward, like Some People. Only if I do, I'm going to be the dauntless leader for
                    the rest of the day.”
                “No, look here—hold on!” cried Gerald,
                     “perhaps I'd better——” But, in the meantime,
                    Jimmy had planted a loud, cheerful-sounding kiss on the Princess's pale cheek,
                    and now the three stood breathless, awaiting the result.
                And the result was that the Princess opened large, dark eyes, stretched out her
                    arms, yawned a little, covering her mouth with a small brown hand, and said,
                    quite plainly and distinctly, and without any room at all for mistake:—
                “Then the hundred years are over? How the yew hedges have grown! Which of you is
                    my Prince that aroused me from my deep sleep of so many long years?”
                “I did,” said Jimmy fearlessly, for she did not look as though she were going to
                    slap any one.
                “My noble preserver!” said the Princess, and held out her hand. Jimmy shook it
                    vigorously.
                “But I say,” said he, “you aren't really a Princess, are you?”
                “Of course I am,” she answered; “who else could I be? Look at my crown!” She
                    pulled aside the spangled veil, and showed beneath it a coronet of what even
                    Jimmy could not help seeing to be diamonds.
                “But——” said Jimmy.
                “Why,” she said, opening her eyes very wide, “you must have known about my being
                    here, or you'd never have come. How did you get past the
                    dragons?”
                Gerald ignored the question. “I say,” he said, “do you really believe in magic,
                    and all that?”
                “I ought to,” she said, “if anybody does. Look, here's the place where I pricked
                    my finger with the spindle.” She showed a
                    little scar on her wrist.
                “Then this really is an enchanted castle?”
                “Of course it is,” said the Princess. “How stupid you are!” She stood up, and her
                    pink brocaded dress lay in bright waves about her feet.
                “I said her dress would be too long,” said Jimmy.
                “It was the right length when I went to sleep,” said the Princess; “it must have
                    grown in the hundred years.”
                “I don't believe you're a Princess at all,” said Jimmy; “at least——”
                “Don't bother about believing it, if you don't like,” said the Princess. “It
                    doesn't so much matter what you believe as what I am.” She turned to the
                    others.
                “Let's go back to the castle,” she said, “and I'll show you all my lovely jewels
                    and things. Wouldn't you like that?”
                “Yes,” said Gerald with very plain hesitation. “But——”
                “But what?” The Princess's tone was impatient.
                “But we're most awfully hungry.”
                “Oh, so am I!” cried the Princess.
                “We've had nothing to eat since breakfast.”
                “And it's three now,” said the Princess, looking at the sun-dial. “Why, you've
                    had nothing to eat for hours and hours and hours. But think of me! I haven't had
                    anything to eat for a hundred years. Come along to the castle.”
                
                “The mice will have eaten everything,” said Jimmy sadly. He saw now that she
                    really was a Princess.
                “Not they,” cried the Princess joyously. “You forget everything's enchanted here.
                    Time simply stood still for a hundred years. Come along, and one of you must
                    carry my train, or I shan't be able to move now it's grown such a frightful
                    length.”
            
            
                
                CHAPTER II
                WHEN you are young so many things are difficult to believe, and yet the
                    dullest people will tell you that they are true—such things, for instance, as
                    that the earth goes round the sun, and that it is not flat but round. But the
                    things that seem really likely, like fairy-tales and magic, are, so say the
                    grown-ups, not true at all. Yet they are so easy to believe, especially when you
                    see them happening. And, as I am always telling you, the most wonderful things
                    happen to all sorts of people, only you never hear about them because the people
                    think that no one will believe their stories, and so they don't tell them to any
                    one except me. And they tell me, because they know that I can believe
                    anything.
                When Jimmy had awakened the Sleeping Princess, and she had invited the three
                    children to go with her to her palace and get something to eat, they all knew
                    quite surely that they had come into a place of magic happenings. And they
                    walked in a slow procession along the grass towards the castle. The Princess went first, and Kathleen carried her shining
                    train; then came Jimmy, and Gerald came last. They were all quite sure that they
                    had walked right into the middle of a fairy tale, and they were the more ready
                    to believe it because they were so tired and hungry. They were, in fact, so
                    hungry and tired that they hardly noticed where they were going, or observed the
                    beauties of the formal gardens through which the pink-silk Princess was leading
                    them. They were in a sort of dream, from which they only partially awakened to
                    find themselves in a big hall, with suits of armour and old flags round the
                    walls, the skins of beasts on the floor, and heavy oak tables and benches ranged
                    along it.
                The Princess entered, slow and stately, but once inside she twitched her sheeny
                    train out of Jimmy's hand and turned to the three.
                “You just wait here a minute,” she said, “and mind you don't talk while I'm away.
                    This castle is crammed with magic, and I don't know what will happen if you
                    talk.” And with that, picking up the thick goldy-pink folds under her arms, she
                    ran out, as Jimmy said afterwards, “most unprincesslike,” showing as she ran
                    black stockings and black strap shoes.
                Jimmy wanted very much to say that he didn't believe anything would happen, only
                    he was afraid something would happen if he did, so he merely made a face and put
                    out his tongue. The others pretended not to see this, which was much more crushing than anything they could
                    have said. So they sat in silence, and Gerald ground the heel of his boot upon
                    the marble floor. Then the Princess came back, very slowly and kicking her long
                    skirts in front of her at every step. She could not hold them up now because of
                    the tray she carried.
                It was not a silver tray, as you might have expected, but an oblong tin one. She
                    set it down noisily on the end of the long table and breathed a sigh of
                    relief.
                “Oh! it was heavy,” she said. I don't know what fairy feast the
                    children's fancy had been busy with. Anyhow, this was nothing like it. The heavy
                    tray held a loaf of bread, a lump of cheese, and a brown jug of water. The rest
                    of its heaviness was just plates and mugs and knives.
                “Come along,” said the Princess hospitably. “I couldn't find anything but bread
                    and cheese—but it doesn't matter, because everything's magic here, and unless
                    you have some dreadful secret fault the bread and cheese will turn into anything
                    you like. What would you like?” she asked Kathleen.
                “Roast chicken,” said Kathleen, without hesitation.
                The pinky Princess cut a slice of bread and laid it on a dish. “There you are,”
                    she said, “roast chicken. Shall I carve it, or will you?”
                “You, please,” said Kathleen, and received a piece of dry bread on a plate.
                
                “Green peas?” asked the Princess, cut a piece of cheese and laid it beside the
                    bread.
                Kathleen began to eat the bread, cutting it up with knife and fork as you would
                    eat chicken. It was no use owning that she didn't see any chicken and peas, or
                    anything but cheese and dry bread, because that would be owning that she had
                    some dreadful secret fault.
                “If I have, it is a secret, even from me,” she told herself.
                The others asked for roast beef and cabbage—and got it, she supposed, though to
                    her it only looked like dry bread and Dutch cheese.
                “I do wonder what my dreadful secret fault is,” she thought, as the
                    Princess remarked that, as for her, she could fancy a slice of roast peacock.
                    “This one,” she added, lifting a second mouthful of dry bread on her fork, “is
                    quite delicious.”
                “It's a game, isn't it?” asked Jimmy suddenly.
                “What's a game?” asked the Princess, frowning.
                “Pretending it's beef—the bread and cheese, I mean.”
                “A game? But it is beef. Look at it,” said the Princess, opening her
                    eyes very wide.
                “Yes, of course,” said Jimmy feebly. “I was only joking.”
                Bread and cheese is not perhaps so good as roast beef or chicken or peacock (I'm
                    not sure about the peacock. I never tasted peacock, did you?); but bread and
                    cheese is, at any rate,
                     very much better than nothing when you have
                    gone on having nothing since breakfast (gooseberries and gingerbeer hardly
                    count) and it is long past your proper dinner-time. Every one ate and drank and
                    felt much better.
                “Now,” said the Princess, brushing the bread-crumbs off her green silk lap, “if
                    you're sure you won't have any more meat you can come and see my treasures. Sure
                    you won't take the least bit more chicken? No? Then follow me.”
                She got up and they followed her down the long hall to the end where the great
                    stone stairs ran up at each side and joined in a broad flight leading to the
                    gallery above. Under the stairs was a hanging of tapestry.
                “Beneath this arras,” said the Princess, “is the door leading to my private
                    apartments.” She held the tapestry up with both hands, for it was heavy, and
                    showed a little door that had been hidden by it.
                “The key,” she said, “hangs above.”
                And so it did, on a large rusty nail.
                “Put it in,” said the Princess, “and turn it.”
                Gerald did so, and the great key creaked and grated in the lock.
                “Now push,” she said; “push hard, all of you.
                They pushed hard, all of them. The door gave way, and they fell over each other
                    into the dark space beyond.
                The Princess dropped the curtain and came after them, closing the door behind
                    her.
                
                “Look out!” she said; “look out! there are two steps down.”
                “Thank you,” said Gerald, rubbing his knee at the bottom of the steps. “We found
                    that out for ourselves.”
                “I'm sorry,” said the Princess, “but you can't have hurt yourselves much. Go
                    straight on. There aren't any more steps.”
                They went straight on—in the dark.
                “When you come to the door just turn the handle and go in. Then stand still till
                    I find the matches. I know where they are.”
                “Did they have matches a hundred years ago?” asked Jimmy.
                “I meant the tinder-box,” said the Princess quickly. “We always called it the
                    matches. Don't you? Here, let me go first.”
                She did, and when they had reached the door she was waiting for them with a
                    candle in her hand. She thrust it on Gerald.
                “Hold it steady,” she said, and undid the shutters of a long window, so that
                    first a yellow streak and then a blazing great oblong of light flashed at them
                    and the room was full of sunshine.
                “It makes the candle look quite silly,” said Jimmy.
                “So it does,” said the Princess, and blew out the candle. Then she took the key
                    from the outside of the door, put it in the inside keyhole, and turned it.
                The room they were in was small and high. Its domed ceiling was of deep blue with
                        gold
                     stars painted on it. The walls were of wood,
                    panelled and carved, and there was no furniture in it whatever.
                “This,” said the Princess, “is my treasure chamber.”
                “But where,” asked Kathleen politely, “are the treasures?”
                “Don't you see them?” asked the Princess.
                “No, we don't,” said Jimmy bluntly. “You don't come that bread-and-cheese game
                    with me—not twice over, you don't!”
                “If you really don't see them,” said the Princess, “I suppose I
                    shall have to say the charm. Shut your eyes, please. And give me your word of
                    honour you won't look till I tell you, and that you'll never tell any one what
                    you've seen.”
                Their words of honour were something that the children would rather not have
                    given just then, but they gave them all the same, and shut their eyes tight.
                “Wiggadil yougadoo begadee leegadeeve nowgadow?” said the Princess rapidly; and
                    they heard the swish of her silk train moving across the room. Then there was a
                    creaking, rustling noise.
                “She's locking us in!” cried Jimmy.
                “Your word of honour,” gasped Gerald.
                “Oh, do be quick!” moaned Kathleen.
                “You may look,” said the voice of the Princess. And they looked. The room was not
                    the same room, yet—yes, the starry-vaulted blue ceiling was there, and below it
                    half a dozen feet of the dark panelling, but
                    below that the walls of the room blazed and sparkled with white and blue and red
                    and green and gold and silver. Shelves ran round the room, and on them were gold
                    cups and silver dishes, and platters and goblets set with gems, ornaments of
                    gold and silver, tiaras of diamonds, necklaces of rubies, strings of emeralds
                    and pearls, all set out in unimaginable splendour against a background of faded
                    blue velvet. It was like the Crown jewels that you see when your kind uncle
                    takes you to the Tower, only there seemed to be far more jewels than you or any
                    one else has ever seen together at the Tower or anywhere else.
                The three children remained breathless, open-mouthed, staring at the sparkling
                    splendours all about them, while the Princess stood, her arm stretched out in a
                    gesture of command, and a proud smile on her lips.
                “My word!” said Gerald, in a low whisper. But no one spoke out loud. They waited
                    as if spellbound for the Princess to speak.
                She spoke.
                “What price bread-and-cheese games now?” she asked triumphantly. “Can I do magic,
                    or can't I?”
                “You can; oh, you can!” said Kathleen.
                “May we—may we touch?” asked Gerald.
                “All that is mine is yours,” said the Princess, with a generous wave of her brown
                    hand, and added quickly, “Only, of course, you mustn't take anything away with
                    you.”
                “We're not thieves!” said Jimmy. The others were
                    already busy turning over the wonderful things on the blue velvet shelves.
                “Perhaps not,” said the Princess, “but you're a very unbelieving little boy. You
                    think I can't see inside you, but I can. I know what you've been
                    thinking.”
                “What?” asked Jimmy.
                “Oh, you know well enough,” said the Princess. “You're thinking about the bread
                    and cheese that I changed into beef, and about your secret fault. I say, let's
                    all dress up and you be princes and princesses too.”
                “To crown our hero,” said Gerald, lifting a gold crown with a cross on the top,
                    “was the work of a moment.” He put the crown on his head, and added a collar of
                    SS and a zone of sparkling emeralds, which would not quite meet round his
                    middle. He turned from fixing it by an ingenious adaptation of his belt to find
                    the others already decked with diadems, necklaces, and rings.
                “How splendid you look!” said the Princess, “and how I wish your clothes were
                    prettier. What ugly clothes people wear nowadays! A hundred years ago——”
                Kathleen stood quite still with a diamond bracelet raised in her hand.
                “I say,” she said. “The King and Queen?”
                “What King and Queen?” asked the Princess.
                “Your father and mother, your sorrowing parents,” said Kathleen. “They'll have
                    waked up by now. Won't they be wanting to see you, after a hundred years, you
                    know?”
                
                “Oh—ah—yes,” said the Princess slowly. “I embraced my rejoicing parents when I
                    got the bread and cheese. They're having their dinner. They won't expect me yet.
                    Here,” she added, hastily putting a ruby bracelet on Kathleen's arm, “see how
                    splendid that is!”
                Kathleen would have been quite content to go on all day trying on different
                    jewels and looking at herself in the little silver-framed mirror that the
                    Princess took from one of the shelves, but the boys were soon weary of this
                    amusement.
                “Look here,” said Gerald, “if you're sure your father and mother won't want you,
                    let's go out and have a jolly good game of something. You could play besieged
                    castles awfully well in that maze—unless you can do any more magic tricks.”
                “You forget,” said the Princess, “I'm grown up. I don't play games. And I don't
                    like to do too much magic at a time, it's so tiring. Besides, it'll take us ever
                    so long to put all these things back in their proper places.”
                It did. The children would have laid the jewels just anywhere; but the Princess
                    showed them that every necklace, or ring, or bracelet had its own home on the
                    velvet—a slight hollowing in the shelf beneath, so that each stone fitted into
                    its own little nest.
                As Kathleen was fitting the last shining ornament into its proper place, she saw
                    that part of the shelf near it held, not bright jewels, but rings and brooches
                    and chains, as well as queer things that she did not know
                     the names of, and all were of dull metal and
                    odd shapes.
                “What's all this rubbish?” she asked.
                “Rubbish, indeed!” said the Princess. “Why those are all magic
                    things! This bracelet—any one who wears it has got to speak the truth. This
                    chain makes you as strong as ten men; if you wear this spur your horse will go a
                    mile a minute; or if you're walking it's the same as seven-league boots.”
                “What does this brooch do?” asked Kathleen, reaching out her hand. The Princess
                    caught her by the wrist.
                “You mustn't touch,” she said; “if any one but me touches them all the magic goes
                    out at once and never comes back. That brooch will give you any wish you
                    like.”
                “And this ring?” Jimmy pointed.
                “Oh, that makes you invisible.”
                “What's this?” asked Gerald, showing a curious buckle.
                “Oh, that undoes the effect of all the other charms.”
                “Do you mean really?” Jimmy asked. “You're not just kidding?”
                “Kidding indeed!” repeated the Princess scornfully. “I should have thought I'd
                    shown you enough magic to prevent you speaking to a Princess like
                        that!”
                “I say,” said Gerald, visibly excited. “You might show us how some of the things
                    act. Couldn't you give us each a wish?”
                The Princess did not at once answer. And the
                    minds of the three played with granted wishes—brilliant yet thoroughly
                    reasonable—the kind of wish that never seems to occur to people in fairy tales
                    when they suddenly get a chance to have their three wishes granted.
                “No,” said the Princess suddenly, “no; I can't give wishes to you,
                    it only gives me wishes. But I'll let you see the ring make me
                    invisible. Only you must shut your eyes while I do it.”
                They shut them.
                “Count fifty,” said the Princess, “and then you may look. And then you must shut
                    them again, and count fifty, and I'll reappear.”
                Gerald counted, aloud. Through the counting one could hear a creaking, rustling
                    sound.
                “Forty-seven, forty-eight, forty-nine, fifty!” said Gerald, and they opened their
                    eyes.
                They were alone in the room. The jewels had vanished and so had the Princess.
                “She's gone out by the door, of course,” said Jimmy, but the door was locked.
                “That is magic,” said Kathleen breathlessly.
                “Maskelyne and Devant can do that trick,” said Jimmy. “And I want my
                    tea.”
                “Your tea!” Gerald's tone was full of contempt. “The lovely Princess,” he went
                    on, “reappeared as soon as our hero had finished counting fifty. One, two,
                    three, four—”
                Gerald and Kathleen had both closed their eyes. But somehow Jimmy hadn't. He
                    didn't mean to cheat, he just forgot. And as Gerald's count reached twenty he
                    saw a panel under the window open slowly.
                
                “Her,” he said to himself. “I knew it was a trick!” and at once shut
                    his eyes, like an honourable little boy.
                On the word “fifty” six eyes opened. And the panel was closed and there was no
                    Princess.
                “She hasn't pulled it off this time,” said Gerald.
                “Perhaps you'd better count again,” said Kathleen.
                “I believe there's a cupboard under the window,” said Jimmy, “and she's hidden in
                    it. Secret panel, you know.”
                “You looked! that's cheating,” said the voice of the Princess so close to his ear
                    that he quite jumped.
                “I didn't cheat.”
                “Where on earth——What ever——” said all three together. For still there was no
                    Princess to be seen.
                “Come back visible, Princess dear,” said Kathleen. “Shall we shut our eyes and
                    count again?”
                “Don't be silly!” said the voice of the Princess, and it sounded very cross.
                “We're not silly,” said Jimmy, and his voice was cross too. “Why
                    can't you come back and have done with it? You know you're only hiding.”
                “Don't!” said Kathleen gently. “She is invisible, you know.”
                “So should I be if I got into the cupboard,” said Jimmy.
                “Oh yes,” said the sneering tone of the
                    Princess, “you think yourselves very clever, I dare say. But I
                    don't mind. We'll play that you can't see me, if you like.”
                “Well, but we can't,” said Gerald. “It's no use getting in a wax. If
                    you're hiding, as Jimmy says, you'd better come out. If you've really turned
                    invisible, you'd better make yourself visible again.”
                “Do you really mean,” asked a voice quite changed, but still the Princess's,
                    “that you can't see me?”
                “Can't you see we can't?” asked Jimmy rather unreasonably.
                The sun was blazing in at the window; the eight-sided room was very hot, and
                    every one was getting cross.
                “You can't see me?” There was the sound of a sob in the voice of the invisible
                    Princess.
                “No, I tell you,” said Jimmy, “and I want my tea—and——”
                What he was saying was broken off short, as one might break a stick of sealing
                    wax. And then in the golden afternoon a really quite horrid thing happened:
                    Jimmy suddenly leaned backwards, then forwards, his eyes opened wide and his
                    mouth too. Backward and forward he went, very quickly and abruptly, then stood
                    still.
                “Oh, he's in a fit! Oh, Jimmy, dear Jimmy!” cried Kathleen, hurrying to him.
                    “What is it, dear, what is it?”
                “It's not a fit,” gasped Jimmy angrily. “She shook me.”
                “Yes,” said the voice of the Princess, “and
                     I'll shake him again if he keeps on saying he
                    can't see me.”
                “You'd better shake me,” said Gerald angrily. “I'm nearer your own
                    size.”
                And instantly she did. But not for long. The moment Gerald felt hands on his
                    shoulders he put up his own and caught those other hands by the wrists. And
                    there he was, holding wrists that he couldn't see. It was a dreadful sensation.
                    An invisible kick made him wince, but he held tight to the wrists.
                “Cathy,” he cried, “come and hold her legs; she's kicking me.”
                “Where?” cried Kathleen, anxious to help. “I don't see any
                    legs.”
                “This is her hands I've got,” cried Gerald. “She is invisible right
                    enough. Get hold of this hand, and then you can feel your way down to her
                    legs.”
                Kathleen did so. I wish I could make you understand how very, very uncomfortable
                    and frightening it is to feel, in broad daylight, hands and arms that you can't
                    see.
                “I won't have you hold my legs,” said the invisible Princess,
                    struggling violently.
                “What are you so cross about?” Gerald was quite calm. “You said you'd be
                    invisible, and you are.”
                “I'm not.”
                “You are really. Look in the glass.
                “I'm not; I can't be.”
                “Look in the glass,” Gerald repeated, quite unmoved.
                
                “Let go, then,” she said.
                Gerald did, and the moment he had done so he found it impossible to believe that
                    he really had been holding invisible hands.
                “You're just pretending not to see me,” said the Princess anxiously, “aren't you?
                    Do say you are. You've had your joke with me. Don't keep it up. I don't like
                    it.”
                “On our sacred word of honour,” said Gerald, “you're still invisible.”
                There was a silence. Then, “Come,” said the Princess. “I'll let you out, and you
                    can go. I'm tired of playing with you.”
                They followed her voice to the door, and through it, and along the little passage
                    into the hall. No one said anything. Every one felt very uncomfortable.
                “Let's get out of this,” whispered Jimmy as they got to the end of the hall.
                But the voice of the Princess said: “Come out this way; it's quicker. I think
                    you're perfectly hateful. I'm sorry I ever played with you. Mother always told
                    me not to play with strange children.”
                A door abruptly opened, though no hand was seen to touch it. “Come through, can't
                    you!” said the voice of the Princess.
                It was a little ante-room, with long, narrow mirrors between its long, narrow
                    windows.
                “Goodbye,” said Gerald. “Thanks for giving us such a jolly time. Let's part
                    friends,” he added, holding out his hand.
                An unseen hand was slowly put in his, which closed on it, vice-like.
                
                “Now,” he said, “you've jolly well got to look in the glass and own
                    that we're not liars.”
                He led the invisible Princess to one of the mirrors, and held her in front of it
                    by the shoulders.
                “Now,” he said, “you just look for yourself.”
                There was a silence, and then a cry of despair rang through the room.
                “Oh—oh—oh! I am invisible. Whatever shall I do?”
                “Take the ring off,” said Kathleen, suddenly practical.
                Another silence.
                “I can't!” cried the Princess. “It won't come off. But it can't be
                    the ring; rings don't make you invisible.”
                “You said this one did,” said Kathleen, “and it has.”
                “But it can't,” said the Princess. “I was only playing at magic. I
                    just hid in the secret cupboard—it was only a game. Oh, whatever
                        shall I do?”
                “A game?” said Gerald slowly; “but you can do magic—the invisible
                    jewels, and you made them come visible.”
                “Oh, it's only a secret spring and the panelling slides up. Oh, what am I to
                    do?”
                Kathleen moved towards the voice and gropingly got her arms round a pink-silk
                    waist that she couldn't see. Invisible arms clasped her, a hot invisible cheek
                    was laid against hers, and warm invisible tears lay wet between the two
                    faces.
                
                “Don't cry, dear,” said Kathleen; “let me go and tell the King and Queen.”
                “The——?”
                “Your royal father and mother.”
                “Oh, don't mock me!” said the poor Princess. “You know
                    that was only a game, too, like——”
                “Like the bread and cheese,” said Jimmy triumphantly. “I knew that
                    was!”
                “But your dress and being asleep in the maze, and——”
                “Oh, I dressed up for fun, because every one's away at the fair, and I put the
                    clue just to make it all more real. I was playing at Fair Rosamond first, and
                    then I heard you talking in the maze, and I thought what fun; and now I'm
                    invisible, and I shall never come right again, never—I know I shan't! It serves
                    me right for lying, but I didn't really think you'd believe it—not more than
                    half, that is,” she added hastily, trying to be truthful.
                “But if you're not the Princess, who are you?” asked Kathleen, still
                    embracing the unseen.
                “I'm—my aunt lives here,” said the invisible Princess. “She may be home any time.
                    Oh, what shall I do?”
                “Perhaps she knows some charm——”
                “Oh, nonsense!” said the voice sharply; “she doesn't believe in charms. She
                        would be so vexed. Oh, I daren't let her see me like this!” she
                    added wildly. “And all of you here, too She'd be so dreadfully cross.”
                The beautiful magic castle that the children had
                    believed in now felt as though it were tumbling about their ears. All that was
                    left was the invisibleness of the Princess. But that, you will own, was a good
                    deal.
                “I just said it,” moaned the voice, “and it came true. I wish I'd never played at
                    magic—I wish I'd never played at anything at all.”
                “Oh, don't say that,” Gerald said kindly. “Let's go out into the garden, near the
                    lake, where it's cool, and we'll hold a solemn council. You'll like that, won't
                    you?”
                “Oh!” cried Kathleen suddenly, “the buckle; that makes magic come undone!”
                “It doesn't really,” murmured the voice that seemed to speak without
                    lips. “I only just said that.”
                “You only ‘just said’ about the ring,” said Gerald. “Anyhow, let's try.”
                “Not you—me,” said the voice. “You go down to the Temple of Flora,
                    by the lake. I'll go back to the jewel-room by myself. Aunt might see you.”
                “She won't see you,” said Jimmy.
                “Don't rub it in,” said Gerald. “Where is the Temple of Flora?”
                “That's the way,” the voice said; “down those steps and along the winding path
                    through the shrubbery. You can't miss it. It's white marble, with a statue
                    goddess inside.”
                The three children went down to the white marble Temple of Flora that stood close
                    against the side of the little hill, and sat down in its shadowy inside. It had
                    arches all round except against the hill behind
                    the statue, and it was cool and restful.
                They had not been there five minutes before the feet of a runner sounded loud on
                    the gravel. A shadow, very black and distinct, fell on the white marble
                    floor.
                “Your shadow's not invisible anyhow,” said Jimmy.
                “Oh, bother my shadow!” the voice of the Princess replied. “We left the key
                    inside the door, and it's shut itself with the wind, and it's a spring
                    lock!”
                There was a heartfelt pause.
                Then Gerald said, in his most business-like manner:
                “Sit down, Princess, and we'll have a thorough good palaver about it.”
                “I shouldn't wonder,” said Jimmy, “if we was to wake up and find it was
                    dreams.”
                “No such luck,” said the voice.
                “Well,” said Gerald, “first of all, what's your name, and if you're not a
                    Princess, who are you?”
                “I'm—I'm,” said a voice broken with sobs, “I'm
                    the—housekeeper's—niece—at—the—castle—and my name's Mabel Prowse.”
                “That's exactly what I thought,” said Jimmy, without a shadow of truth, because
                    how could he? The others were silent. It was a moment full of agitation and
                    confused ideas.
                “Well, anyhow,” said Gerald, “you belong here.”
                “Yes,” said the voice, and it came from
                     the floor, as though its owner had flung
                    herself down in the madness of despair. “Oh yes, I belong here right enough, but
                    what's the use of belonging anywhere if you're invisible?”
            
            
                
                CHAPTER III
                THOSE of my readers who have gone about much with an invisible companion
                    will not need to be told how awkward the whole business is. For one thing,
                    however much you may have been convinced that your companion is
                    invisible, you will, I feel sure, have found yourself every now and then saying,
                    “This must be a dream!” or “I know I shall wake up in
                    half a sec!” And this was the case with Gerald, Kathleen, and Jimmy as they sat
                    in the white marble Temple of Flora, looking out through its arches at the
                    sunshiny park and listening to the voice of the enchanted Princess, who really
                    was not a Princess at all, but just the housekeeper's niece, Mabel Prowse;
                    though, as Jimmy said, “she was enchanted, right enough.”
                “It's no use talking,” she said again and again, and the voice came from an
                    empty-looking space between two pillars; “I never believed anything would
                    happen, and now it has.”
                “Well,” said Gerald kindly, “can we do anything for you? Because, if not, I think
                    we ought to be going.”
                “Yes,” said Jimmy; “I do want my tea!”
                
                “Tea!” said the unseen Mabel scornfully. “Do you mean to say you'd go off to your
                    teas and leave me after getting me into this mess?”
                “Well, of all the unfair Princesses I ever met!” Gerald began. But Kathleen
                    interrupted.
                “Oh, don't rag her,” she said. “Think how horrid it must be to be invisible!”
                “I don't think,” said the hidden Mabel, “that my aunt likes me very much as it
                    is. She wouldn't let me go to the fair because I'd forgotten to put back some
                    old trumpery shoe that Queen Elizabeth wore—I got it out from the glass case to
                    try it on.”
                “Did it fit?” asked Kathleen, with interest.
                “Not it—much too small,” said Mabel. “I don't believe it ever fitted any
                    one.”
                “I do want my tea!” said Jimmy.
                “I do really think perhaps we ought to go,” said Gerald. “You see, it isn't as if
                    we could do anything for you.”
                “You'll have to tell your aunt,” said Kathleen kindly.
                “No, no, no!” moaned Mabel invisibly; “take me with you. I'll leave her a note to
                    say I've run away to sea.”
                “Girls don't run away to sea.”
                “They might,” said the stone floor between the pillars, “as stowaways, if nobody
                    wanted a cabin boy—cabin girl, I mean.”
                “I'm sure you oughtn't,” said Kathleen firmly.
                
                “Well, what am I to do?”
                “Really,” said Gerald, “I don't know what the girl can do. Let her
                    come home with us and have——”
                “Tea—oh, yes,” said Jimmy, jumping up.
                “And have a good council.”
                “After tea,” said Jimmy.
                “But her aunt 'll find she's gone.”
                “So she would if I stayed.”
                “Oh, come on,” said Jimmy.
                “But the aunt 'll think something's happened to her.”
                “So it has.”
                “And she'll tell the police, and they'll look everywhere for me.”
                “They'll never find you,” said Gerald. “Talk of impenetrable disguises!”
                “I'm sure,” said Mabel, “aunt would much rather never see me again than see me
                    like this. She'd never get over it; it might kill her—she has spasms as it is.
                    I'll write to her, and we'll put it in the big letter-box at the gate as we go
                    out. Has any one got a bit of pencil and a scrap of paper?”
                Gerald had a note-book, with leaves of the shiny kind which you have to write on,
                    not with a blacklead pencil, but with an ivory thing with a point of real lead.
                    And it won't write on any other paper except the kind that is in the book, and
                    this is often very annoying when you are in a hurry. Then was seen the strange
                    spectacle of a little ivory stick, with a leaden point, standing up at an odd, impossible-looking slant, and moving along
                    all by itself as ordinary pencils do when you are writing with them.
                “May we look over?” asked Kathleen.
                There was no answer. The pencil went on writing.
                “Mayn't we look over?” Kathleen said again.
                “Of course you may!” said the voice near the paper. “I nodded, didn't I? Oh, I
                    forgot, my nodding's invisible too.”
                The pencil was forming round, clear letters on the page torn out of the
                    note-book. This is what it wrote:
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    “DEAR AUNT,—
                                
                                “I am afraid you will not see me again for some time. A lady in a
                                    motor-car has adopted me, and we are going straight to the coast
                                    and then in a ship. It is useless to try to follow me. Farewell,
                                    and may you be happy. I hope you enjoyed the fair.
                                
                                    “MABEL.”
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                “But that's all lies,” said Jimmy bluntly.
                “No, it isn't; it's fancy,” said Mabel. “If I said I've become invisible, she'd
                    think that was a lie, anyhow.”
                “Oh, come along,” said Jimmy; “you can quarrel just as well
                    walking.”
                Gerald folded up the note as a lady in India had taught him to do years before,
                    and Mabel led them by another and very much
                    nearer way out of the park. And the walk home was a great deal shorter, too,
                    than the walk out had been.
                The sky had clouded over while they were in the Temple of Flora, and the first
                    spots of rain fell as they got back to the house, very late indeed for tea.
                Mademoiselle was looking out of the window, and came herself to open the
                    door.
                “But it is that you are in lateness, in lateness!” she cried. “You have had a
                    misfortune—no? All goes well?”
                “We are very sorry indeed,” said Gerald. “It took us longer to get home than we
                    expected. I do hope you haven't been anxious. I have been thinking about you
                    most of the way home.”
                “Go, then,” said the French lady, smiling; “you shall have them in the same
                    time—the tea and the supper.”
                Which they did.
                “How could you say you were thinking about her all the time?” said a
                    voice just by Gerald's ear, when Mademoiselle had left them alone with the bread
                    and butter and milk and baked apples. “It was just as much a lie as me being
                    adopted by a motor lady.”
                “No, it wasn't,” said Gerald, through bread and butter. “I was
                    thinking about whether she'd be in a wax or not. So there!”
                There were only three plates, but Jimmy let Mabel have his, and shared with
                    Kathleen. It was rather horrid to see the bread
                     and butter waving about in the air, and bite
                    after bite disappearing from it apparently by no human agency; and the spoon
                    rising with apple in it and returning to the plate empty. Even the tip of the
                    spoon disappeared as long as it was in Mabel's unseen mouth; so that at times it
                    looked as though its bowl had been broken off.
                Every one was very hungry, and more bread and butter had to be fetched. Cook
                    grumbled when the plate was filled for the third time.
                “I tell you what,” said Jimmy; “I did want my tea.”
                “I tell you what,” said Gerald; “it'll be jolly difficult to give
                    Mabel any breakfast. Mademoiselle will be here then. She'd have a fit if she saw
                    bits of forks with bacon on them vanishing, and then the forks coming back out
                    of vanishment, and the bacon lost for ever.”
                “We shall have to buy things to eat and feed our poor captive in secret,” said
                    Kathleen.
                “Our money won't last long,” said Jimmy, in gloom. “Have you got any
                    money?”
                He turned to where a mug of milk was suspended in the air without visible means
                    of support.
                “I've not got much money,” was the reply from near the milk, “but I've got heaps
                    of ideas.”
                “We must talk about everything in the morning,”
                    said Kathleen. “We must just say good-night to Mademoiselle, and then you shall
                    sleep in my bed, Mabel. I'll lend you one of my nightgowns.”
                “I'll get my own to-morrow,” said Mabel cheerfully.
                “You'll go back to get things?”
                “Why not? Nobody can see me. I think I begin to see all sorts of amusing things
                    coming along. It's not half bad being invisible.”
                It was extremely odd, Kathleen thought, to see the Princess's clothes coming out
                    of nothing. First the gauzy veil appeared hanging in the air. Then the sparkling
                    coronet suddenly showed on the top of the chest of drawers. Then a sleeve of the
                    pinky gown showed, then another, and then the whole gown lay on the floor in a
                    glistening ring as the unseen legs of Mabel stepped out of it. For each article
                    of clothing became visible as Mabel took it off. The nightgown, lifted from the
                    bed, disappeared a bit at a time.
                “Get into bed,” said Kathleen, rather nervously.
                The bed creaked and a hollow appeared in the pillow. Kathleen put out the gas and
                    got into bed; all this magic had been rather upsetting, and she was just the
                    least bit frightened, but in the dark she found it was not so bad. Mabel's arms
                    went round her neck the moment she got into bed, and the two little girls kissed
                    in the kind darkness, where the visible and the
                    invisible could meet on equal terms.
                “Good-night,” said Mabel. “You're a darling, Cathy; you've been most awfully good
                    to me, and I sha'n't forget it. I didn't like to say so before the boys, because
                    I know boys think you're a muff if you're grateful. But I am.
                    Good-night.”
                Kathleen lay awake for some time. She was just getting sleepy when she remembered
                    that the maid who would call them in the morning would see those wonderful
                    Princess clothes.
                “I'll have to get up and hide them,” she said. “What a bother!”
                And as she lay thinking what a bother it was she happened to fall asleep, and
                    when she woke again it was bright morning, and Eliza was standing in front of
                    the chair where Mabel's clothes lay, gazing at the pink Princess-frock that lay
                    on the top of her heap and saying, “Law!”
                “Oh, don't touch, please!” Kathleen leaped out of bed as Eliza was
                    reaching out her hand.
                “Where on earth did you get hold of that?”
                “We're going to use it for acting,” said Kathleen, on the desperate inspiration
                    of the moment. “It's lent me for that.”
                “You might show me, miss,” suggested Eliza.
                “Oh, please not!” said Kathleen, standing in front of the chair in her nightgown.
                    “You shall see us act when we are dressed up. There! And you won't tell any one,
                    will you?”
                “Not if you're a good little girl,” said Eliza.
                    “But you be sure to let me see when you do dress up. But
                    where——”
                Here a bell rang and Eliza had to go, for it was the postman, and she
                    particularly wanted to see him.
                “And now,” said Kathleen, pulling on her first stocking, “we shall have to
                        do the acting. Everything seems very difficult.”
                “Acting isn't,” said Mabel; and an unsupported stocking waved in the air and
                    quickly vanished. “I shall love it.”
                “You forget,” said Kathleen gently, “invisible actresses can't take part in plays
                    unless they're magic ones.”
                “Oh,” cried a voice from under a petticoat that hung in the air, “I've got
                        such an idea!”
                “Tell it us after breakfast,” said Kathleen, as the water in the basin began to
                    splash about and to drip from nowhere back into itself. “And oh! I do wish you
                    hadn't written such whoppers to your aunt. I'm sure we oughtn't to tell lies for
                    anything.”
                “What's the use of telling the truth if nobody believes you?” came from among the
                    splashes.
                “I don't know,” said Kathleen, “but I'm sure we ought to tell the truth.”
                “You can, if you like,” said a voice from the folds of a towel that
                    waved lonely in front of the wash-hand stand.
                “All right. We will, then, first thing after brek—your brek, I mean.
                    You'll have to wait up here till we can collar something and bring it up to you. Mind you dodge Eliza when she comes to
                    make the bed.”
                The invisible Mabel found this a fairly amusing game; she further enlivened it by
                    twitching out the corners of tucked-up sheets and blankets when Eliza wasn't
                    looking.
                “Drat the clothes!” said Eliza; “anyone ud think the things was bewitched.”
                She looked about for the wonderful Princess clothes she had glimpsed earlier in
                    the morning. But Kathleen had hidden them in a perfectly safe place-under the
                    mattress, which she knew Eliza never turned.
                Eliza hastily brushed up from the floor those bits of fluff which come from
                    goodness knows where in the best regulated houses. Mabel, very hungry and
                    exasperated at the long absence of the others at their breakfast, could not
                    forbear to whisper suddenly in Eliza's ear:—
                “Always sweep under the mats.”
                The maid started and turned pale. “I must be going silly,” she murmured; “though
                    it's just what mother always used to say. Hope I ain't going dotty, like Aunt
                    Emily. Wonderful what you can fancy, ain't it?”
                She took up the hearth-rug all the same, swept under it, and under the fender. So
                    thorough was she, and so pale, that Kathleen, entering with a chunk of bread
                    raided by Gerald from the pantry window, exclaimed:—
                “Not done yet. I say, Eliza, you do look ill! What's the matter?”
                “I thought I'd give the room a good turn-out,” said Eliza, still very pale.
                
                “Nothing's happened to upset you?” Kathleen asked. She had her own private
                    fears.
                “Nothing only my fancy, miss,” said Eliza. “I always was fanciful from a
                    child—dreaming of the pearly gates and them little angels with nothing on only
                    their heads and wings—so cheap to dress, I always think, compared with
                    children.”
                When she was got rid of, Mabel ate the bread and drank water from the
                    tooth-mug.
                “I'm afraid it tastes of cherry tooth-paste rather,” said Kathleen
                    apologetically.
                “It doesn't matter,” a voice replied from the tilted mug; “it's more interesting
                    than water. I should think red wine in ballads was rather like this.”
                “We've got leave for the day again,” said Kathleen, when the last bit of bread
                    had vanished, “and Gerald feels like I do about lies. So we're going to tell
                    your aunt where you really are.”
                “She won't believe you.”
                “That doesn't matter, if we speak the truth,” said Kathleen primly.
                “I expect you'll be sorry for it,” said Mabel; “but come on—and, I say, do be
                    careful not to shut me in the door as you go out. You nearly did just now.”
                In the blazing sunlight that flooded the High Street four shadows to three
                    children seemed dangerously noticeable. A butcher's boy looked far too earnestly
                    at the extra shadow, and his big, liver-coloured lurcher snuffed at the legs
                        of that shadow's mistress and whined
                    uncomfortably.
                “Get behind me,” said Kathleen; “then our two shadows will look like one.”
                But Mabel's shadow, very visible, fell on Kathleen's back, and the ostler of the
                    Davenant Arms looked up to see what big bird had cast that big shadow.
                A woman driving a cart with chickens and ducks in it called out:—
                “Halloa, missy, ain't you blacked yer back neither! What you been leaning up
                    against?”
                Every one was glad when they got out of the town.
                Speaking the truth to Mabel's aunt did not turn out at all as any one—even
                    Mabel—expected. The aunt was discovered reading a pink novelette at the window
                    of the housekeeper's room, which, framed in clematis and green creepers, looked
                    out on a nice little courtyard to which Mabel led the party.
                “Excuse me,” said Gerald, “but I believe you've lost your niece?”
                “Not lost, my boy,” said the aunt, who was spare and tall, with a drab fringe and
                    a very genteel voice.
                “We could tell you something about her,” said Gerald.
                “Now,” replied the aunt, in a warning voice, “no complaints, please. My niece has
                    gone, and I am sure no one thinks less than I do of her little pranks. If she's
                    played any tricks on you
                     it's only her light-hearted way. Go away,
                    children, I'm busy.”
                “Did you get her note?” asked Kathleen.
                The aunt showed rather more interest than before, but she still kept her finger
                    in the novelette.
                “Oh,” she said, “so you witnessed her departure? Did she seem glad to go?”
                “Quite,” said Gerald truthfully.
                “Then I can only be glad that she is provided for,” said the aunt. “I dare say
                    you were surprised. These romantic adventures do occur in our family. Lord
                    Yalding selected me out of eleven applicants for the post of housekeeper here.
                    I've not the slightest doubt the child was changed at birth and her rich
                    relatives have claimed her.”
                “But aren't you going to do anything—tell the police, or——”
                “Shish!” said Mabel.
                “I won't shish,” said Jimmy. “Your Mabel's invisible—that's all it
                    is. She's just beside me now.”
                “I detest untruthfulness,” said the aunt severely, “in all its forms. Will you
                    kindly take that little boy away? I am quite satisfied about Mabel.”
                “Well,” said Gerald, “you are an aunt and no mistake!
                    But what will Mabel's father and mother say?”
                “Mabel's father and mother are dead,” said the aunt calmly, and a little sob
                    sounded close to Gerald's ear.
                
                “All right,” he said, “we'll be off. But don't you go saying we didn't tell you
                    the truth, that's all.”
                “You have told me nothing,” said the aunt, “none of you, except that little boy,
                    who has told me a silly falsehood.”
                “We meant well,” said Gerald gently. “You don't mind our having come through the
                    grounds, do you? We're very careful not to touch anything.”
                “No visitors are allowed,” said the aunt, glancing down at her novel rather
                    impatiently.
                “Ah! but you wouldn't count us visitors,” said Gerald in his best
                    manner. “We're friends of Mabel's. Our father's Colonel of the —th.”
                “Indeed!” said the aunt.
                “And our aunt's Lady Sandling, so you can be sure we wouldn't hurt anything on
                    the estate.”
                “I'm sure you wouldn't hurt a fly,” said the aunt absently. “Goodbye. Be good
                    children.”
                And on this they got away quickly.
                “Why,” said Gerald, when they were outside the little court, “your aunt's as mad
                    as a hatter. Fancy not caring what becomes of you, and fancy believing that rot
                    about the motor lady!”
                “I knew she'd believe it when I wrote it,” said Mabel modestly. “She's not mad,
                    only she's always reading novelettes. I read the books in the big library. Oh,
                    it's such a jolly room—such a queer smell, like boots, and old leather books
                    sort of powdery at the edges. I'll take you
                    there some day. Now your consciences are all right about my aunt, I'll tell you
                    my great idea. Let's get down to the Temple of Flora. I'm glad you got aunt's
                    permission for the grounds. It would be so awkward for you to have to be always
                    dodging behind bushes when one of the gardeners came along.”
                “Yes,” said Gerald modestly, “I thought of that.”
                The day was as bright as yesterday had been, and from the white marble temple the
                    Italian-looking landscape looked more than ever like a steel engraving coloured
                    by hand, or an oleographic imitation of one of Turner's pictures.
                When the three children were comfortably settled on the steps that led up to the
                    white statue, the voice of the fourth child said sadly: “I'm not ungrateful, but
                    I'm rather hungry. And you can't be always taking things for me through your
                    larder window. If you like, I'll go back and live in the castle. It's supposed
                    to be haunted. I suppose I could haunt it as well as any one else. I am a sort
                    of ghost now, you know. I will if you like.”
                “Oh no,” said Kathleen kindly; “you must stay with us.”
                “But about food. I'm not ungrateful, really I'm not, but breakfast is breakfast,
                    and bread's only bread.”
                “If you could get the ring off, you could go back.”
                “Yes,” said Mabel's voice, “but you see, I can't. I tried again last night in
                    bed, and again this morning. And it's like
                    stealing, taking things out of your larder—even if it's only bread.”
                “Yes, it is,” said Gerald, who had carried out this bold enterprise.
                “Well, now, what we must do is to earn some money.”
                Jimmy remarked that this was all very well. But Gerald and Kathleen listened
                    attentively.
                “What I mean to say,” the voice went on, “I'm really sure is all for the best, me
                    being invisible. We shall have adventures—you see if we don't.”
                “‘Adventures,’ said the bold buccaneer, ‘are not always profitable.’” It was
                    Gerald who murmured this.
                “This one will be, anyhow, you see. Only you mustn't all go. Look here, if Jerry
                    could make himself look common——-”
                “That ought to be easy,” said Jimmy. And Kathleen told him not to be so jolly
                    disagreeable.
                “I'm not,” said Jimmy, “only——”
                “Only he has an inside feeling that this Mabel of yours is going to get us into
                    trouble,” put in Gerald. “Like La Belle Dame Sans Merci, and he does not want to
                    be found in future ages alone and palely loitering in the middle of sedge and
                    things.”
                “I won't get you into trouble, indeed I won't,” said the voice. “Why, we're a
                    band of brothers for life, after the way you stood by me yesterday. What I mean
                    is—Gerald can go to the fair and do conjuring.”
                
                “He doesn't know any,” said Kathleen.
                “I should do it really,” said Mabel, “but Jerry could look like
                    doing it. Move things without touching them and all that. But it wouldn't do for
                    all three of you to go. The more there are of children the younger they look, I
                    think, and the more people wonder what they're doing all alone by
                    themselves.”
                “The accomplished conjurer deemed these the words of wisdom,” said Gerald; and
                    answered the dismal “Well, but what about us?” of his brother and sister by
                    suggesting that they should mingle unsuspected with the crowd. “But don't let on
                    that you know me,” he said; “and try to look as if you belonged to some of the
                    grown-ups at the fair. If you don't, as likely as not you'll have the kind
                    policemen taking the little lost children by the hand and leading them home to
                    their stricken relations—French governess, I mean.”
                “Let's go now,” said the voice that they never could get quite used
                    to hearing, coming out of different parts of the air as Mabel moved from one
                    place to another. So they went.
                The fair was held on a waste bit of land, about half a mile from the castle
                    gates. When they got near enough to hear the steam-organ of the merry-go-round,
                    Gerald suggested that as he had ninepence he should go ahead and get something
                    to eat, the amount spent to be paid back out of any money they might make by
                    conjuring. The others waited in the shadows of a deep-banked lane, and he came
                    back, quite soon, though long after they had
                    begun to say what a long time he had been gone. He brought some Barcelona nuts,
                    red-streaked apples, small sweet yellow pears, pale pasty gingerbread, a whole
                    quarter of a pound of peppermint bulls-eyes, and two bottles of gingerbeer.
                “It's what they call an investment,” he said, when Kathleen said something about
                    extravagance. “We shall all need special nourishing to keep our strength up,
                    especially the bold conjurer.”
                They ate and drank. It was a very beautiful meal, and the far-off music of the
                    steam-organ added the last touch of festivity to the scene. The boys were never
                    tired of seeing Mabel eat, or rather of seeing the strange, magic-looking
                    vanishment of food which was all that showed of Mabel's eating. They were
                    entranced by the spectacle, and pressed on her more than her just share of the
                    feast, just for the pleasure of seeing it disappear.
                “My aunt!” said Gerald, again and again; “that ought to knock 'em !”
                It did.
                Jimmy and Kathleen had the start of the others, and when they got to the fair
                    they mingled with the crowd, and were as unsuspected as possible.
                They stood near a large lady who was watching the cocoanut shies, and presently
                    saw a strange figure with its hands in its pockets strolling across the trampled
                    yellowy grass among the bits of drifting paper and the sticks and straws that always litter the ground of an
                    English fair. It was Gerald, but at first they hardly knew him. He had taken off
                    his tie, and round his head, arranged like a turban, was the crimson
                    school-scarf that had supported his white flannels. The tie, one supposed, had
                    taken on the duties of the handkerchief. And his face and hands were a bright
                    black, like very nicely polished stoves!
                Every one turned to look at him.
                “He's just like a nigger!” whispered Jimmy. “I don't suppose it'll ever come off,
                    do you?”
                They followed him at a distance, and when he went close to the door of a small
                    tent, against whose door-post a long-faced melancholy woman was lounging, they
                    stopped and tried to look as though they belonged to a farmer who strove to send
                    up a number by banging with a big mallet on a wooden block.
                Gerald went up to the woman.
                “Taken much?” he asked, and was told, but not harshly, to go away with his
                    impudence.
                “I'm in business myself,” said Gerald, “I'm a conjurer, from India.”
                “Not you!” said the woman; “you ain't no nigger. Why, the backs of yer ears is
                    all white.”
                “Are they?” said Gerald. “How clever of you to see that!” He rubbed them with his
                    hands. “That better?”
                “That's all right. What's your little game?”
                “Conjuring, really and truly,” said Gerald. “There's smaller boys than me put on
                    to it in India. Look here, I owe you one for
                    telling me about my ears. If you like to run the show for me I'll go shares. Let
                    me have your tent to perform in, and you do the patter at the door.”
                “Lor' love you! I can't do no patter. And you're getting at me. Let's see you do
                    a bit of conjuring, since you're so clever an' all.”
                “Right you are,” said Gerald firmly. “You see this apple? Well, I'll make it move
                    slowly through the air, and then when I say ‘Go!’ it'll vanish.”
                “Yes—into your mouth! Get away with your nonsense.”
                “You're too clever to be so unbelieving,” said Gerald. “Look here!”
                He held out one of the little apples, and the woman saw it move slowly and
                    unsupported along the air.
                “Now—go!” cried Gerald, to the apple, and it went. “How's that?” he
                    asked, in tones of triumph.
                The woman was glowing with excitement, and her eyes shone. “The best I ever see!”
                    she whispered. “I'm on, mate, if you know any more tricks like that.”
                “Heaps,” said Gerald confidently; “hold out your hand.” The woman held it out;
                    and from nowhere, as it seemed, the apple appeared and was laid on her hand. The
                    apple was rather damp.
                She looked at it a moment, and then whispered: “Come on! there's to be no one in
                    it but just us two. But not in the tent. You take
                     a pitch here, 'longside the tent. It's worth
                    twice the money in the open air.”
                “But people won't pay if they can see it all for nothing.”
                “Not for the first turn, but they will after—you see. And you'll have to do the
                    patter.”
                “Will you lend me your shawl?” Gerald asked. She unpinned it—it was a red and
                    black plaid—and he spread it on the ground as he had seen Indian conjurers do,
                    and seated himself cross-legged behind it.
                “I mustn't have any one behind me, that's all,” he said; and the woman hastily
                    screened off a little enclosure for him by hanging old sacks to two of the
                    guy-ropes of the tent. “Now I'm ready,” he said. The woman got a drum from the
                    inside of the tent and beat it. Quite soon a little crowd had collected.
                “Ladies and gentlemen,” said Gerald, “I come from India, and I can do a conjuring
                    entertainment the like of which you've never seen. When I see two shillings on
                    the shawl I'll begin.”
                “I dare say you will!” said a bystander; and there were several short,
                    disagreeable laughs.
                “Of course,” said Gerald, “if you can't afford two shillings between you”—there
                    were about thirty people in the crowd by now—“I say no more.”
                Two or three pennies fell on the shawl, then a few more, then the fall of copper
                    ceased.
                “Ninepence,” said Gerald. “Well, I've got a generous nature. You'll get such a
                    ninepennyworth as you've never had before. I
                    don't wish to deceive you—I have an accomplice, but my accomplice is
                    invisible.”
                The crowd snorted.
                “By the aid of that accomplice,” Gerald went on, “I will read any letter that any
                    of you may have in your pocket. If one of you will just step over the rope and
                    stand beside me, my invisible accomplice will read that letter over his
                    shoulder.”
                A man stepped forward, a ruddy-faced, horsy-looking person. He pulled a letter
                    from his pocket and stood plain in the sight of all, in a place where every one
                    saw that no one could see over his shoulder.
                “Now!” said Gerald. There was a moment's pause. Then from quite the other side of
                    the enclosure came a faint, far-away, sing-song voice. It said:—
                “‘SIR,—Yours of the fifteenth duly to hand. With regard to the mortgage on your
                    land, we regret our inability—’”
                “Stow it!” cried the man, turning threateningly on Gerald.
                He stepped out of the enclosure explaining that there was nothing of that sort in
                    his letter; but nobody believed him, and a buzz of interested chatter began in
                    the crowd, ceasing abruptly when Gerald began to speak.
                “Now,” said he, laying the nine pennies down on the shawl, “you keep your eyes on
                    those pennies, and one by one you'll see them disappear.”
                And of course they did. Then one by one
                     they were laid down again by the invisible
                    hand of Mabel. The crowd clapped loudly. “Brayvo!” “That's something like!”
                    “Show us another!” cried the people in the front rank. And those behind pushed
                    forward.
                “Now,” said Gerald, “you've seen what I can do, but I don't do any more till I
                    see five shillings on this carpet.”
                And in two minutes seven-and-threepence lay there and Gerald did a little more
                    conjuring.
                When the people in front didn't want to give any more money, Gerald asked them to
                    stand back and let the others have a look in. I wish I had time to tell you of
                    all the tricks he did—the grass round his enclosure was absolutely trampled off
                    by the feet of the people who thronged to look at him. There is really hardly
                    any limit to the wonders you can do if you have an invisible accomplice. All
                    sorts of things were made to move about, apparently by themselves, and even to
                    vanish—into the folds of Mabel's clothing. The woman stood by; looking more and
                    more pleasant as she saw the money come tumbling in, and beating her shabby drum
                    every time Gerald stopped conjuring.
                The news of the conjurer had spread all over the fair. The crowd was frantic with
                    admiration. The man who ran the cocoanut shies begged Gerald to throw in his lot
                    with him; the owner of the rifle gallery offered him free board and lodging and
                    go shares; and a brisk, broad lady, in stiff black silk and a violet bonnet, tried to engage him for the forthcoming
                    Bazaar for Reformed Bandsmen.
                And all this time the others mingled with the crowd—quite unobserved, for who
                    could have eyes for any one but Gerald? It was getting quite late, long past
                    tea-time, and Gerald, who was getting very tired indeed, and was quite satisfied
                    with his share of the money, was racking his brains for a way to get out of
                    it.
                “How are we to hook it?” he murmured, as Mabel made his cap disappear from his
                    head by the simple process of taking it off and putting it in her pocket.
                    “They'll never let us get away. I didn't think of that before.”
                “Let me think!” whispered Mabel; and next moment she said, close to his ear:
                    “Divide the money, and give her something for the shawl. Put the money on it and
                    say...” She told him what to say.
                Gerald's pitch was in the shade of the tent; otherwise, of course, every one
                    would have seen the shadow of the invisible Mabel as she moved about making
                    things vanish.
                Gerald told the woman to divide the money, which she did honestly enough.
                “Now,” he said, while the impatient crowd pressed closer and closer, “I'll give
                    you five bob for your shawl.”
                “Seven-and-six,” said the woman mechanically.
                “Righto!” said Gerald, putting his heavy share of the money in his trouser
                    pocket.
                “This shawl will now disappear,” he said, picking it up. He handed it to Mabel,
                    who put it on; and, of course, it disappeared.
                    A roar of applause went up from the audience.
                “Now,” he said, “I come to the last trick of all. I shall take three steps
                    backward and vanish.” He took three steps backward, Mabel wrapped the invisible
                    shawl round him, and—he did not vanish. The shawl, being invisible, did not
                    conceal him in the least.
                “Yah!” cried a boy's voice in the crowd. “Look at 'im! 'E knows 'e can't do
                    it.”
                “I wish I could put you in my pocket,” said Mabel. The crowd was crowding closer.
                    At any moment they might touch Mabel, and then anything might happen—simply
                    anything. Gerald took hold of his hair with both hands, as his way was when he
                    was anxious or discouraged. Mabel, in invisibility, wrung her hands, as people
                    are said to do in books; that is, she clasped them and squeezed very tight.
                “Oh!” she whispered suddenly, “it's loose. I can get it off.”
                “Not——”
                “Yes—the ring.”
                “Come on, young master. Give us summat for our money,” a farm labourer shouted.
                    “I will,” said Gerald. “This time I really will vanish. Slip round into the
                    tent,” he whispered to Mabel. “Push the ring under the canvas. Then slip out at
                    the back and join the others. When I see you with them I'll disappear. Go slow,
                    and I'll catch you up.”
                “It's me,” said a pale and obvious Mabel in the
                    ear of Kathleen. “He's got the ring; come on, before the crowd begins to
                    scatter.”
                As they went out of the gate they heard a roar of surprise and annoyance rise
                    from the crowd, and knew that this time Gerald really had
                    disappeared.
                They had gone a mile before they heard footsteps on the road, and looked back. No
                    one was to be seen.
                Next moment Gerald's voice spoke out of clear, empty-looking space.
                “Halloa!” it said gloomily.
                “How horrid!” cried Mabel; “you did make me jump! Take the ring off. It makes me
                    feel quite creepy, you being nothing but a voice.”
                “So did you us,” said Jimmy.
                “Don't take it off yet,” said Kathleen, who was really rather thoughtful for her
                    age, “because you're still black, I suppose, and you might be recognised, and
                    eloped with by gipsies, so that you should go on doing conjuring for ever and
                    ever.”
                “I should take it off,” said Jimmy; “it's no use going about invisible, and
                    people seeing us with Mabel and saying we've eloped with her.”
                “Yes,” said Mabel impatiently, “that would be simply silly. And, besides, I want
                    my ring.”
                “It's not yours any more than ours, anyhow,” said Jimmy.
                “Yes, it is,” said Mabel.
                
                “Oh, stow it!” said the weary voice of Gerald beside her. “What's the use of
                    jawing?”
                “I want the ring,” said Mabel, rather mulishly.
                “Want”—the words came out of the still evening air—“want must be your master. You
                    can't have the ring. I can't get it off!”
            
            
                
                CHAPTER IV
                THE difficulty was not only that Gerald had got the ring on and couldn't
                    get it off, and was therefore invisible, but that Mabel, who had been invisible
                    and therefore possible to be smuggled into the house, was now plain to be seen
                    and impossible for smuggling purposes.
                The children would have not only to account for the apparent absence of one of
                    themselves, but for the obvious presence of a perfect stranger.
                “I can't go back to aunt. I can't and I won't,” said Mabel firmly, “not if I was
                    visible twenty times over.”
                “She'd smell a rat if you did,” Gerald owned—“about the motor-car, I mean, and
                    the adopting lady. And what we're to say to Mademoiselle about you——!” He tugged
                    at the ring.
                “Suppose you told the truth,” said Mabel meaningly.
                “She wouldn't believe it,” said Cathy; “or, if she did, she'd go stark, staring,
                    raving mad.”
                “No,” said Gerald's voice, “we daren't tell her. But she's really
                    rather decent. Let's ask her to let you stay the night because it's too late for
                    you to get home.”
                
                “That's all right,” said Jimmy, “but what about you?”
                “I shall go to bed,” said Gerald, “with a bad headache. Oh, that's
                    not a lie! I've got one right enough. It's the sun, I think. I know blacklead
                    attracts the concentration of the sun.”
                “More likely the pears and the gingerbread,” said Jimmy unkindly. “Well, let's
                    get along. I wish it was me was invisible. I'd do something different from going
                    to bed with a silly headache, I know that.”
                “What would you do?” asked the voice of Gerald just behind him.
                “Do keep in one place, you silly cuckoo!” said Jimmy. “You make me feel all
                    jumpy.” He had indeed jumped rather violently. “Here, walk between Cathy and
                    me.”
                “What would you do?” repeated Gerald, from that apparently
                    unoccupied position.
                “I'd be a burglar,” said Jimmy.
                Cathy and Mabel in one breath reminded him how wrong burgling was, and Jimmy
                    replied:
                “Well, then—a detective.”
                “There's got to be something to detect before you can begin detectiving,” said
                    Mabel.
                “Detectives don't always detect things,” said Jimmy, very truly. “If I couldn't
                    be any other kind I'd be a baffled detective. You could be one all right, and
                    have no end of larks just the same. Why don't you do it?”
                “It's exactly what I am going to do,” said Gerald. “We'll go round
                    by the police-station and see what they've got in the way of crimes.”
                
                They did, and read the notices on the board outside. Two dogs had been lost, a
                    purse, and a portfolio of papers “of no value to any but the owner.” Also
                    Houghton Grange had been broken into and a quantity of silver plate stolen.
                    “Twenty pounds reward offered for any information that may lead to the recovery
                    of the missing property.”
                “That burglary's my lay,” said Gerald; “I'll detect that. Here comes Johnson,” he
                    added; “he's going off duty. Ask him about it. The fell detective, being
                    invisible, was unable to pump the constable, but the young brother of our hero
                    made the inquiries in quite a creditable manner. Be creditable, Jimmy.”
                Jimmy hailed the constable.
                “Halloa, Johnson!” he said.
                And Johnson replied: “Halloa, young shaver!”
                “Shaver yourself!” said Jimmy, but without malice.
                “What are you doing this time of night?” the constable asked jocosely. “All the
                    dicky birds is gone to their little nesteses.”
                “We've been to the fair,” said Kathleen. “There was a conjurer there. I wish you
                    could have seen him.”
                “Heard about him,” said Johnson; “all fake, you know. The quickness of the 'and
                    deceives the hi.”
                Such is fame. Gerald, standing in the shadow, jingled the loose money in his
                    pocket to console himself.
                “What's that?” the policeman asked quickly.
                
                
                
                “Our money jingling,” said Jimmy, with perfect truth.
                “It's well to be some people,” Johnson remarked; “wish I'd got my pockets full to
                    jingle with.”
                “Well, why haven't you?” asked Mabel. “Why don't you get that twenty pounds
                    reward?”
                “I'll tell you why I don't. Because in this 'ere realm of liberty, and Britannia
                    ruling the waves, you aint allowed to arrest a chap on suspicion, even if you
                    know puffickly well who done the job.”
                “What a shame!” said Jimmy warmly. “And who do you think did
                    it?”
                “I don't think—I know.” Johnson's voice was ponderous as his boots. “It's a man
                    what's known to the police on account of a heap o' crimes he's done, but we
                    never can't bring it ome to 'im, nor yet get sufficient evidence to
                    convict.”
                “Well,” said Jimmy, “when I've left school I'll come to you and be apprenticed,
                    and be a detective. Just now I think we'd better get home and detect our supper.
                    Good-night!”
                They watched the policeman's broad form disappear through the swing door of the
                    police-station; and as it settled itself into quiet again the voice of Gerald
                    was heard complaining bitterly.
                “You've no more brains than a halfpenny bun,” he said; “no details about how and
                    when the silver was taken.”
                
                “But he told us he knew,” Jimmy urged.
                “Yes, that's all you've got out of him. A silly policeman's silly idea. Go home
                    and detect your precious supper! It's all you're fit for.”
                “What'll you do about supper?” Mabel asked.
                “Buns!” said Gerald, “halfpenny buns. They'll make me think of my dear little
                    brother and sister. Perhaps you've got enough sense to buy buns? I can't go into
                    a shop in this state.”
                “Don't you be so disagreeable,” said Mabel with spirit. “We did our best. If I
                    were Cathy you should whistle for your nasty buns.”
                “If you were Cathy the gallant young detective would have left home long ago.
                    Better the cabin of a tramp steamer than the best family mansion that's got a
                    brawling sister in it,” said Gerald. “You're a bit of an outsider at present, my
                    gentle maiden. Jimmy and Cathy know well enough when their bold leader is
                    chaffing and when he isn't.”
                “Not when we can't see your face we don't,” said Cathy, in tones of relief. “I
                    really thought you were in a flaring wax, and so did Jimmy, didn't you?”
                “Oh, rot!” said Gerald. “Come on! This way to the bun shop.”
                They went. And it was while Cathy and Jimmy were in the shop and the others were
                    gazing through the glass at the jam tarts and Swiss rolls and Victoria
                    sandwiches and Bath buns under the spread yellow muslin in the window, that
                    Gerald discoursed in Mabel's ear of the plans
                    and hopes of one entering on a detective career.
                “I shall keep my eyes open to-night, I can tell you,” he began. “I shall keep my
                    eyes skinned, and no jolly error. The invisible detective may not only find out
                    about the purse and the silver, but detect some crime that isn't even done yet.
                    And I shall hang about until I see some suspicious-looking characters leave the
                    town, and follow them furtively and catch them red-handed, with their hands full
                    of priceless jewels, and hand them over.”
                “Oh!” cried Mabel, so sharply and suddenly that Gerald was roused from his dream
                    to express sympathy.
                “Pain?” he said quite kindly. “It's the apples—they were rather
                    hard.”
                “Oh, it's not that,” said Mabel very earnestly. “Oh, how awful! I never thought
                    of that before.”
                “Never thought of what?” Gerald asked impatiently.
                “The window.”
                “What window?”
                “The panelled-room window. At home, you know—at the castle. That settles it—I
                        must go home. We left it open and the shutters as well, and all
                    the jewels and things there. Auntie'll never go in; she never does. That settles
                    it; I must go home—now—this minute.”
                Here the others issued from the shop, bun-bearing, and the situation was hastily
                    explained to them.
                
                
                “So you see I must go,” Mabel ended.
                And Kathleen agreed that she must.
                But Jimmy said he didn't see what good it would do. “Because the key's inside the
                    door, anyhow.”
                “She will be cross,” said Mabel sadly. “She'll have to get the
                    gardeners to get a ladder and——”
                “Hooray!” said Gerald. “Here's me! Nobler and more secret than gardeners or
                    ladders was the invisible Jerry. I'll climb in at the window—it's all ivy, I
                    know I could—and shut the window and the shutters all sereno, put the key back
                    on the nail, and slip out unperceived the back way, threading my way through the
                    maze of unconscious retainers. There'll be plenty of time. I don't suppose
                    burglars begin their fell work until the night is far advanced.”
                “Won't you be afraid?” Mabel asked. “Will it be safe—suppose you were
                    caught?”
                “As houses. I can't be,” Gerald answered, and wondered that the question came
                    from Mabel and not from Kathleen, who was usually inclined to fuss a little
                    annoyingly about the danger and folly of adventures.
                But all Kathleen said was, “Well, goodbye; we'll come and see you to-morrow,
                    Mabel. The floral temple at half-past ten. I hope you won't get into an awful
                    row about the motor-car lady.”
                “Let's detect our supper now,” said Jimmy.
                “All right,” said Gerald a little bitterly. It is hard to enter on an adventure
                    like this and to find the sympathetic interest
                    of years suddenly cut off at the meter, as it were. Gerald felt that he ought,
                    at a time like this, to have been the centre of interest. And he wasn't. They
                    could actually talk about supper. Well, let them. He didn't care! He spoke with
                    sharp sternness: “Leave the pantry window undone for me to get in by when I've
                    done my detecting. Come on, Mabel.” He caught her hand. “Bags I the buns,
                    though,” he added, by a happy afterthought, and snatching the bag, pressed it on
                    Mabel, and the sound of four boots echoed on the pavement of the High Street as
                    the outlines of the running Mabel grew small with distance.
                Mademoiselle was in the drawing-room. She was sitting by the window in the waning
                    light reading letters.
                “Ah, vous voici!” she said unintelligibly. “You
                    are again late; and my little Gerald, where is he?”
                This was an awful moment. Jimmy's detective scheme had not included any answer to
                    this inevitable question. The silence was unbroken till Jimmy spoke.
                “He said he was going to bed because he had a headache.” And this,
                    of course, was true.
                “This poor Gerald!” said Mademoiselle. “Is it that I should mount him some
                    supper?”
                “He never eats anything when he's got one of his headaches,” Kathleen said. And
                    this also was the truth.
                
                Jimmy and Kathleen went to bed, wholly untroubled by anxiety about their brother,
                    and Mademoiselle pulled out the bundle of letters and read them amid the ruins
                    of the simple supper.
                “It is ripping being out late like this,” said Gerald through the soft summer
                    dusk.
                “Yes,” said Mabel, a solitary-looking figure plodding along the high-road. “I do
                    hope auntie won't be very furious.”
                “Have another bun,” suggested Gerald kindly, and a sociable munching
                    followed.
                It was the aunt herself who opened to a very pale and trembling Mabel the door
                    which is appointed for the entrances and exits of the domestic staff at Yalding
                    Towers. She looked over Mabel's head first, as if she expected to see some one
                    taller. Then a very small voice said:—
                “Aunt!”
                The aunt started back, then made a step towards Mabel.
                “You naughty, naughty girl!” she cried angrily; “how could you give me such a
                    fright? I've a good mind to keep you in bed for a week for this, miss. Oh,
                    Mabel, thank Heaven you're safe!” And with that the aunt's arms went round Mabel
                    and Mabel's round the aunt in such a hug as they had never met in before.
                “But you didn't seem to care a bit this morning,” said Mabel, when she had
                        realised that her aunt really had been
                    anxious, really was glad to have her safe home again.
                “How do you know?”
                “I was there listening. Don't be angry, auntie.”
                “I feel as if I never could be angry with you again, now I've got you safe,” said
                    the aunt surprisingly.
                “But how was it?” Mabel asked.
                “My dear,” said the aunt impressively, “I've been in a sort of trance. I think I
                    must be going to be ill. I've always been fond of you, but I didn't want to
                    spoil you. But yesterday, about half-past three, I was talking about you to Mr.
                    Lewson, at the fair, and quite suddenly I felt as if you didn't matter at all.
                    And I felt the same when I got your letter and when those children came. And
                    to-day in the middle of tea I suddenly woke up and realised that you were gone.
                    It was awful. I think I must be going to be ill. Oh, Mabel, why did you do
                    it?”
                “It was—a joke,” said Mabel feebly. And then the two went in and the door was
                    shut.
                “That's most uncommon odd,” said Gerald, outside; “looks like more magic to me. I
                    don't feel as if we'd got to the bottom of this yet, by any manner of means.
                    There's more about this castle than meets the eye.”
                There certainly was. For this castle happened to be—but it would not be fair to
                    Gerald to tell you more about it than he knew on that night when he went alone
                    and invisible through the shadowy great
                    grounds of it to look for the open window of the panelled room. He knew that
                    night no more than I have told you; but as he went along the dewy lawns and
                    through the groups of shrubs and trees, where pools lay like giant
                    looking-glasses reflecting the quiet stars, and the white limbs of statues
                    gleamed against a background of shadow, he began to feel—well, not excited, not
                    surprised, not anxious, but—different.
                The incident of the invisible Princess had surprised, the incident of the
                    conjuring had excited, and the sudden decision to be a detective had brought its
                    own anxieties; but all these happenings, though wonderful and unusual, had
                    seemed to be, after all, inside the circle of possible things—wonderful as the
                    chemical experiments are where two liquids poured together make fire, surprising
                    as legerdemain, thrilling as a juggler's display, but nothing more. Only now a
                    new feeling came to him as he walked through those gardens; by day those gardens
                    were like dreams, at night they were like visions. He could not see his feet as
                    he walked, but he saw the movement of the dewy grass-blades that his feet
                    displaced. And he had that extraordinary feeling so difficult to describe, and
                    yet so real and so 
                        unforgetable
                        unforgettable
                    —the feeling that he was in another world, that had covered up and
                    hidden the old world as a carpet covers a floor. The floor was there all right,
                    underneath, but what he walked on was the carpet that covered it—and that carpet was drenched in magic, as the turf was
                    drenched in dew.
                The feeling was very wonderful; perhaps you will feel it some day. There are
                    still some places in the world where it can be felt, but they grow fewer every
                    year.
                The enchantment of the garden held him.
                “I'll not go in yet,” he told himself; “it's too early. And perhaps I shall never
                    be here at night again. I suppose it is the night that makes everything look so
                    different.”
                Something white moved under a weeping willow; white hands parted the long,
                    rustling leaves. A white figure came out, a creature with horns and goat's legs
                    and the head and arms of a boy. And Gerald was not afraid. That was the most
                    wonderful thing of all, though he would never have owned it. The white thing
                    stretched its limbs, rolled on the grass, righted itself, and frisked away
                    across the lawn. Still something white gleamed under the willow; three steps
                    nearer and Gerald saw that it was the pedestal of a statue—empty.
                “They come alive,” he said; and another white shape came out of the Temple of
                    Flora and disappeared in the laurels. “The statues come alive.”
                There was a crunching of the little stones in the gravel of the drive. Something
                    enormously long and darkly grey came crawling towards him, slowly, heavily. The
                    moon came out just in time to show its shape. It was one of those great lizards
                    that you see at the Crystal Palace,
                     made in stone, of the same awful size which
                    they were millions of years ago when they were masters of the world, before Man
                    was.
                “It can't see me,” said Gerald. “I am not afraid. It's come to life,
                    too.”
                As it writhed past him he reached out a hand and touched the side of its gigantic
                    tail. It was of stone. It had not “come alive,” as he had fancied, but
                        was alive in its stone. It turned, however, at the touch; but
                    Gerald also had turned, and was running with all his speed towards the house.
                    Because at that stony touch Fear had come into the garden and almost caught him.
                    It was Fear that he ran from, and not the moving stone beast.
                He stood panting under the fifth window; when he had climbed to the window-ledge
                    by the twisted ivy that clung to the wall, he looked back over the grey
                    slope—there was a splashing at the fish-pool that had mirrored the stars—the
                    shape of the great stone beast was wallowing in the shallows among the
                    lily-pads.
                Once inside the room, Gerald turned for another look. The fish-pond lay still and
                    dark, reflecting the moon. Through a gap in the drooping willow the moonlight
                    fell on a statue that stood calm and motionless on its pedestal. Everything was
                    in its place now in the garden. Nothing moved or stirred.
                “How extraordinarily rum!” said Gerald. “I shouldn't have thought you
                        could go to sleep walking through a garden and dream—like
                    that.”
                
                He shut the window, lit a match, and closed the shutters. Another match showed
                    him the door. He turned the key, went out, locked the door again, hung the key
                    on its usual nail, and crept to the end of the passage. Here he waited, safe in
                    his invisibility, till the dazzle of the matches should have gone from his eyes,
                    and he be once more able to find his way by the moonlight that fell in bright
                    patches on the floor through the barred, unshuttered windows of the hall.
                “Wonder where the kitchen is,” said Gerald. He had quite forgotten that he was a
                    detective. He was only anxious to get home and tell the others about that
                    extraordinarily odd dream that he had had in the gardens. “I suppose it doesn't
                    matter what doors I open. I'm invisible all right still, I suppose?
                    Yes; can't see my hand before my face.” He held up a hand for the purpose. “Here
                    goes!”
                He opened many doors, wandered into long rooms with furniture dressed in brown
                    holland covers that looked white in that strange light, rooms with chandeliers
                    hanging in big bags from the high ceilings, rooms whose walls were alive with
                    pictures, rooms whose walls were deadened with rows on rows of old books, state
                    bedrooms in whose great plumed four-posters Queen Elizabeth had no doubt slept.
                    (That Queen, by the way, must have been very little at home, for she seems to
                    have slept in every old house in England.) But he could not find the kitchen. At
                    last a door opened on stone steps that went
                    up—there was a narrow stone passage—steps that went down—a door with a light
                    under it. It was, somehow, difficult to put out one's hand to that door and open
                    it.
                “Nonsense!” Gerald told himself; “don't be an ass! Are you invisible, or aren't
                    you?”
                Then he opened the door, and some one inside said something in a sudden rough
                    growl.
                Gerald stood back, flattened against the wall, as a man sprang to the doorway and
                    flashed a lantern into the passage.
                “All right,” said the man, with almost a sob of relief. “It was only the door
                    swung open, it's that heavy—that's all.”
                “Blow the door!” said another growling voice; “blessed if I didn't think it was a
                    fair cop that time.”
                They closed the door again. Gerald did not mind. In fact, he rather preferred
                    that it should be so. He didn't like the look of those men. There was an air of
                    threat about them. In their presence even invisibility seemed too thin a
                    disguise. And Gerald had seen as much as he wanted to see. He had seen that he
                    had been right about the gang. By wonderful luck—beginner's luck, a card-player
                    would have told him—he had discovered a burglary on the very first night of his
                    detective career. The men were taking silver out of two great chests, wrapping
                    it in rags, and packing it in baize sacks. The door of the room was of iron six
                    inches thick. It was, in fact, the strong-room, and these men had picked the
                    lock. The tools they had done it with lay on
                    the floor, on a neat cloth roll, such as wood-carvers keep their chisels in.
                “Hurry up!” Gerald heard. “You needn't take all night over it.”
                The silver rattled slightly. “You're a rattling of them trays like bloomin'
                    castanets,” said the gruffest voice. Gerald turned and went away, very carefully
                    and very quickly. And it is a most curious thing that, though he couldn't find
                    the way to the servants' wing when he had nothing else to think of, yet now,
                    with his mind full, so to speak, of silver forks and silver cups, and the
                    question of who might be coming after him down those twisting passages, he went
                    straight as an arrow to the door that led from the hall to the place he wanted
                    to get to.
                As he went the happenings took words in his mind.
                “The fortunate detective,” he told himself, “having succeeded beyond his wildest
                    dreams, himself left the spot in search of assistance.”
                But what assistance? There were, no doubt, men in the house, also the aunt; but
                    he could not warn them. He was too hopelessly invisible to carry any weight with
                    strangers. The assistance of Mabel would not be of much value. The police?
                    Before they could be got—and the getting of them presented difficulties—the
                    burglars would have cleared away with their sacks of silver.
                Gerald stopped and thought hard; he held his head with both hands to do it. You
                    know the way—the same as you sometimes do for simple
                     equations or the dates of the battles of the
                    Civil War.
                Then with pencil, note-book, a window-ledge, and all the cleverness he could find
                    at the moment, he wrote:—
                
                    “You know the room where the silver is. Burglars are burgling it, the thick
                        door is picked. Send a man for police. I will follow the burglars if they
                        get away ere police arrive on the spot.”
                
                He hesitated a moment, and ended— 
                        “From a Friend—this is not a sell.”
                    
                This letter, tied tightly round a stone by means of a shoe-lace, thundered
                    through the window of the room where Mabel and her aunt, in the ardour of
                    reunion, were enjoying a supper of unusual charm—stewed plums, cream,
                    spongecakes, custard in cups, and cold bread-and-butter pudding.
                Gerald, in hungry invisibility, looked wistfully at the supper before he threw
                    the stone. He waited till the shrieks had died away, saw the stone picked up,
                    the warning letter read.
                “Nonsense!” said the aunt, growing calmer. “How wicked! Of course it's a
                    hoax.”
                “Oh! do send for the police, like he says,” wailed Mabel.
                “Like who says?” snapped the aunt.
                “Whoever it is,” Mabel moaned.
                “Send for the police at once,” said Gerald, outside, in the manliest voice he
                    could find. “You'll only blame yourself if you
                    don't. I can't do any more for you.”
                “I—I'll set the dogs on you!” cried the aunt.
                “Oh, auntie, don't!” Mabel was dancing with agitation. “It's true—I
                    know it's true. Do—do wake Bates!”
                “I don't believe a word of it,” said the aunt. No more did Bates when, owing to
                    Mabel's persistent worryings, he was awakened. But when he had seen the paper,
                    and had to choose whether he'd go to the strong-room and see that there really
                    wasn't anything to believe or go for the police on his bicycle, he choose the
                    latter course.
                When the police arrived the strong-room door stood ajar, and the silver, or as
                    much of it as three men could carry, was gone.
                Gerald's note-book and pencil came into play again later on that night. It was
                    five in the morning before he crept into bed, tired out and cold as a stone.
                “Master Gerald!”—it was Eliza's voice in his ears—“it's seven o'clock and another
                    fine day, and there's been another burglary—— My cats alive!” she screamed, as
                    she drew up the blind and turned towards the bed; “look at his bed, all crocked
                    with black, and him not there! Oh, Jimminy!” It was a scream this time. Kathleen
                    came running from her room; Jimmy sat up in his bed and rubbed his eyes.
                “Whatever is it?” Kathleen cried.
                “I dunno when I 'ad such a turn.” Eliza sat
                    down heavily on a box as she spoke. “First thing his bed all empty and black as
                    the chimley back, and him not in it, and then when I looks again he
                        is in it all the time. I must be going silly. I thought as much
                    when I heard them haunting angel voices yesterday morning. But I'll tell
                    Mam'selle of you, my lad, with your tricks, you may rely on that. Blacking
                    yourself all over like a dirty nigger and crocking up your clean sheets and
                    pillow-cases. It's going back of beyond, this is.”
                “Look here,” said Gerald slowly; “I'm going to tell you something.”
                Eliza simply snorted, and that was rude of her; but then, she had had a shock and
                    had not got over it.
                “Can you keep a secret?” asked Gerald, very earnest through the grey of his
                    partly rubbed-off blacklead.
                “Yes,” said Eliza.
                “Then keep it and I'll give you two bob.”
                “But what was you going to tell me?”
                “That. About the two bob and the secret. And you keep your mouth shut.”
                “I didn't ought to take it,” said Eliza, holding out her hand eagerly. “Now you
                    get up, and mind you wash all the corners, Master Gerald.”
                “Oh, I'm so glad you're safe,” said Kathleen, when Eliza had gone.
                “You didn't seem to care much last night,” said Gerald coldly.
                “I can't think how I let you go. I didn't care
                    last night. But when I woke this morning and remembered!”
                “There, that'll do—it'll come off on you,” said Gerald through the reckless
                    hugging of his sister.
                “How did you get visible?” Jimmy asked.
                “It just happened when she called me—the ring came off.”
                “Tell us all about everything,” said Kathleen.
                “Not yet,” said Gerald mysteriously.
                “Where's the ring?” Jimmy asked after breakfast. “I want to have a
                    try now.”
                “I—I forgot it,” said Gerald; “I expect it's in the bed somewhere.”
                But it wasn't. Eliza had made the bed.
                “I'll swear there aint no ring there,” she said. “I should 'a' seen it if there
                    had 'a' been.”
            
            
                
                CHAPTER V
                “SEARCH and research proving vain,” said Gerald, when every corner of
                    the bedroom had been turned out and the ring had not been found, “the noble
                    detective hero of our tale remarked that he would have other fish to fry in half
                    a jiff, and if the rest of you want to hear about last night...”
                “Let's keep it till we get to Mabel,” said Kathleen heroically.
                “The assignation was ten-thirty, wasn't it? Why shouldn't Gerald gas as we go
                    along? I don't suppose anything very much happened, anyhow.” This, of course,
                    was Jimmy.
                “That shows,” remarked Gerald sweetly, “how much you know. The
                    melancholy Mabel will await the tryst without success, as far as this one is
                    concerned. ‘Fish, fish, other fish—other fish I fry!’” he warbled to the tune of
                    “Cherry Ripe,” till Kathleen could have pinched him.
                Jimmy turned coldly away, remarking,
                “When you've quite done.”
                But Gerald went on singing—
                
                
                    
                        “‘Where the lips of Johnson smile,
                        There's the land of Cherry Isle.
                        Other fish, other fish,
                        Fish I fry.
                        Stately Johnson, come and buy!’”
                    
                
                “How can you,” asked Kathleen, “be so aggravating?”
                “I don't know,” said Gerald, returning to prose. “Want of sleep or
                    intoxication—of success, I mean. Come where no one can hear us. 
                        
                            “Oh, come to some island where no one can hear,
                            And beware of the keyhole that's glued to an ear,”
                        
                     he whispered, opened the door suddenly, and there, sure enough, was Eliza,
                    stooping without. She flicked feebly at the wainscot with a duster, but
                    concealment was vain.
                “You know what listeners never hear,” said Jimmy severely.
                “I didn't, then—so there!” said Eliza, whose listening ears were crimson. So they
                    passed out, and up the High Street, to sit on the churchyard wall and dangle
                    their legs. And all the way Gerald's lips were shut into a thin, obstinate
                    line.
                “Now,” said Kathleen. “Oh, Jerry, don't be a goat! I'm simply dying to hear what
                    happened.”
                “That's better,” said Gerald, and he told his story. As he told it some of the
                    white mystery and magic of the moonlit gardens got into his voice and his words,
                    so that when he told of the statues that came
                    alive, and the great beast that was alive through all its stone, Kathleen
                    thrilled responsive, clutching his arm, and even Jimmy ceased to kick the wall
                    with his boot heels, and listened open-mouthed.
                Then came the thrilling tale of the burglars, and the warning letter flung into
                    the peaceful company of Mabel, her aunt, and the bread-and-butter pudding.
                    Gerald told the story with the greatest enjoyment and such fulness of detail
                    that the church clock chimed half-past eleven as he said, “Having done all that
                    human agency could do, and further help being despaired of, our gallant young
                    detective—— Hullo, there's Mabel!”
                There was. The tail-board of a cart shed her almost at their feet.
                “I couldn't wait any longer,” she explained, “when you didn't come. And I got a
                    lift. Has anything more happened? The burglars had gone when Bates got to the
                    strong-room.”
                “You don't mean to say all that wheeze is real?” Jimmy asked.
                “Of course it's real,” said Kathleen. “Go on, Jerry. He's just got to where he
                    threw the stone into your bread-and-butter pudding, Mabel. Go on.”
                Mabel climbed on to the wall. “You've got visible again quicker than I did,” she
                    said.
                Gerald nodded and resumed:
                “Our story must be told in as few words as possible, owing to the fish-frying
                    taking place at twelve, and it's past the half-hour now. Having left his missive to do its warning work, Gerald de
                    Sherlock Holmes sped back, wrapped in invisibility, to the spot where by the
                    light of their dark-lanterns the burglars were still—still burgling with the
                    utmost punctuality and despatch. I didn't see any sense in running into danger,
                    so I just waited outside the passage where the steps are—you know?”
                Mabel nodded.
                “Presently they came out, very cautiously, of course, and looked about them. They
                    didn't see me—so deeming themselves unobserved they passed in silent Indian file
                    along the passage—one of the sacks of silver grazed my front part—and out into
                    the night.”
                “But which way?”
                “Through the little looking-glass room where you looked at yourself when you were
                    invisible. The hero followed swiftly on his invisible tennis-shoes. The three
                    miscreants instantly sought the shelter of the groves and passed stealthily
                    among the rhododendrons and across the park, and”—his voice dropped and he
                    looked straight before him at the pinky convolvulus netting a heap of stones
                    beyond the white dust of the road—“the stone things that come alive, they kept
                    looking out from between bushes and under trees—and I saw them all
                    right, but they didn't see me. They saw the burglars though, right enough; but
                    the burglars couldn't see them. Rum, wasn't it?”
                “The stone things?” Mabel had to have them explained to her.
                
                “I never saw them come alive,” she said, “and I've been il the
                    gardens in the evening as often as often.”
                “I saw them,” said Gerald stiffly.
                “I know, I know,” Mabel hastened to put herself right with him; “what I mean to
                    say is I shouldn't wonder if they're only visible when you're
                    invisible—the liveness of them, I mean, not the stoniness.”
                Gerald understood, and I'm sure I hope you do.
                “I shouldn't wonder if you're right,” he said. “The castle garden's enchanted
                    right enough; but what I should like to know is how and why. I say,
                    come on, I've got to catch Johnson before twelve. We'll walk as far as the
                    market and then we'll have to run for it.”
                “But go on with the adventure,” said Mabel. “You can talk as we go. Oh, do—it is
                    so awfully thrilling!”
                This pleased Gerald, of course.
                “Well, I just followed, you know, like in a dream, and they got out the cavy
                    way—you know, where we got in—and I jolly well thought I'd lost them; I had to
                    wait till they'd moved off down the road so that they shouldn't hear me rattling
                    the stones, and I had to tear to catch them up. I took my shoes off—I expect my
                    stockings are done for. And I followed and followed and followed and they went
                    through the place where the poor people live, and right down to the river. And——
                    I say, we must run for it.”
                
                So the story stopped and the running began.
                They caught Johnson in his own back-yard washing at a bench against his own
                    back-door.
                “Look here, Johnson,” Gerald said, “what'll you give me if I put you up to
                    winning that fifty pounds reward?”
                “Halves,” said Johnson promptly, “and a clout 'longside your head if you was
                    coming any of your nonsense over me.”
                “It's not nonsense,” said Gerald very impressively. “If you'll let
                    us in I'll tell you all about it. And when you've caught the burglars and got
                    the swag back you just give me a quid for luck. I won't ask for more.”
                “Come along in, then,” said Johnson, “if the young ladies'll excuse the towel.
                    But I bet you do want something more off of me. Else why not claim
                    the reward yourself?”
                “Great is the wisdom of Johnson—he speaks winged words.” The children were all in
                    the cottage now, and the door was shut. “I want you never to let on who told
                    you. Let them think it was your own unaided pluck and farsightedness.”
                “Sit you down,” said Johnson, “and if you're kidding you'd best send the little
                    gells home afore I begin on you.”
                “I am not kidding,” replied Gerald loftily, “never less. And any one but a
                    policeman would see why I don't want any one to know it was me. I found it out
                    at dead of night, in a place where I wasn't supposed to be; and there'd be a
                    beastly row if they found out at home about
                     me being out nearly all night.
                        Now do you see, my bright-eyed daisy?”
                Johnson was now too interested, as Jimmy said afterwards, to mind what silly
                    names he was called. He said he did see—and asked to see more.
                “Well, don't you ask any questions, then. I'll tell you all it's good for you to
                    know. Last night about eleven I was at Yalding Towers. No—it doesn't matter how
                    I got there or what I got there for—and there was a window open and I got in,
                    and there was a light. And it was in the strong-room, and there were three men,
                    putting silver in a bag.”
                “Was it you give the warning, and they sent for the police?” Johnson was leaning
                    eagerly forward, a hand on each knee.
                “Yes, that was me. You can let them think it was you, if you like. You were off
                    duty, weren't you?”
                “I was,” said Johnson, “in the arms of Murphy——”
                “Well, the police didn't come quick enough. But I was there—a lonely
                    detective. And I followed them.”
                “You did?”
                “And I saw them hide the booty and I know the other stuff from Houghton Court's
                    in the same place, and I heard them arrange about when to take it away.”
                “Come and show me where,” said Johnson, jumping up so quickly that his Windsor
                    arm-chair fell over backwards, with a crack, on the red-brick floor.
                
                “Not so,” said Gerald calmly; “if you go near the spot before the appointed time
                    you'll find the silver, but you'll never catch the thieves.”
                “You're right there.” The policeman picked up his chair and sat down in it again.
                    “Well?”
                “Well, there's to be a motor to meet them in the lane beyond the boat-house by
                    Sadler's Rents at one o'clock to-night. They'll get the things out at half-past
                    twelve and take them along in a boat. So now's your chance to fill your pockets
                    with chink and cover yourself with honour and glory.”
                “So help me!”—Johnson was pensive and doubtful still—“so help me! you
                        couldn't have made all this up out of your head.”
                “Oh yes, I could. But I didn't. Now look here. It's the chance of your lifetime,
                    Johnson! A quid for me, and a still tongue for you, and the job's done. Do you
                    agree?”
                “Oh, I agree right enough,” said Johnson. “I agree. But
                    if you're coming any of your larks——”
                “Can't you see he isn't?” Kathleen put in impatiently. “He's not a liar—we none
                    of us are.”
                “If you're not on, say so,” said Gerald, “and I'll find another policeman with
                    more sense.”
                “I could split about you being out all night,” said Johnson.
                “But you wouldn't be so ungentlemanly,” said Mabel brightly. “Don't you be so 
                        un- believing, when we're trying to
                            do you a good turn.”
                        unbelieving
                    
                “If I were you,” Gerald advised, “I'd go to the place where the silver is, with
                    two other men. You could make a nice little ambush in the wood-yard—it's close
                    there. And I'd have two or three more men up trees in the lane to wait for the
                    motor-car.”
                “You ought to have been in the force, you ought,” said Johnson admiringly; “but
                    s'pose it was a hoax!”
                “Well, then you'd have made an ass of yourself—I don't suppose it ud be the first
                    time,” said Jimmy.
                “Are you on?” said Gerald in haste. “Hold your jaw, Jimmy, you idiot!”
                “Yes,” said Johnson.
                “Then when you're on duty you go down to the wood-yard, and the place where you
                    see me blow my nose is the place. The sacks are tied with string to
                    the posts under the water. You just stalk by in your dignified beauty and make a
                    note of the spot. That's where glory waits you, and when Fame elates you and
                    you're a sergeant, please remember me.”
                Johnson said he was blessed. He said it more than once, and then remarked that he
                    was on, and added that he must be off that instant minute.
                Johnson's cottage lies just out of the town beyond the blacksmith's forge and the
                    children had come to it through the wood. They
                    went back the same way, and then down through the town, and through its narrow,
                    unsavoury streets to the towing-path by the timber yard. Here they ran along the
                    trunks of the big trees, peeped into the saw-pit, and—the men were away at
                    dinner and this was a favourite play place of every boy within miles-made
                    themselves a see-saw with a fresh cut, sweet-smelling pine plank and an
                    elm-root.
                “What a ripping place!” said Mabel, breathless on the see-saw's end. “I believe I
                    like this better than pretending games or even magic.”
                “So do I,” said Jimmy. “Jerry, don't keep sniffing so—you'll have no nose
                    left.”
                “I can't help it,” Gerald answered; “I daren't use my hankey for fear Johnson's
                    on the lookout somewhere unseen. I wish I'd thought of some other signal.”
                    Sniff! “No, nor I shouldn't want to now if I hadn't got not to. That's what's so
                    rum. The moment I got down here and remembered what I'd said about the signal I
                    began to have a cold—and—— Thank goodness! here he is.”
                The children, with a fine air of unconcern, abandoned the see-saw.
                “Follow my leader!” Gerald cried, and ran along a barked oak trunk, the others
                    following. In and out and round about ran the file of children, over heaps of
                    logs, under the jutting ends of piled planks, and just as the policeman's heavy
                    boots trod the towing-path Gerald halted at the end of a little landing-stage of
                        rotten boards, with a rickety handrail,
                    cried “Pax!” and blew his nose with loud fervour.
                “Morning,” he said immediately.
                “Morning,” said Johnson. “Got a cold, aint you?”
                “Ah! I shouldn't have a cold if I'd got boots like yours,” returned Gerald
                    admiringly. “Look at them. Any one ud know your fairy footstep a mile off. How
                    do you ever get near enough to any one to arrest them?” He skipped off the
                    landing-stage, whispered as he passed Johnson, “Courage, promptitude, and
                    despatch. That's the place,” and was off again, the active leader of an active
                    procession.
                “We've brought a friend home to dinner,” said Kathleen, when Eliza opened the
                    door. “Where's Mademoiselle?”
                “Gone to see Yalding Towers. To-day's show day, you know. An' just you hurry over
                    your dinners. It's my afternoon out, and my gentleman friend don't like it if
                    he's kept waiting.”
                “All right, we'll eat like lightning,” Gerald promised. “Set another place,
                    there's an angel.”
                They kept their word. The dinner—it was minced veal and potatoes and
                    rice-pudding, perhaps the dullest food in the world—was over in a quarter of an
                    hour.
                “And now,” said Mabel, when Eliza and a jug of hot water had disappeared up the
                    stairs together, “where's the ring? I ought to put it back.”
                “I haven't had a turn yet,” said Jimmy.
                     “When we find it Cathy and I ought to have
                    turns same as you and Gerald did.”
                “When you find it——?” Mabel's pale face turned paler between her dark locks.
                “I'm very sorry—we're all very sorry,” began Kathleen, and then the story of the
                    losing had to be told.
                “You couldn't have looked properly,” Mabel protested. “It can't have
                    vanished.”
                “You don't know what it can do—no more do we. It's no use getting your quills up,
                    fair lady. Perhaps vanishing itself is just what it does do. You see, it came
                    off my hand in the bed. We looked everywhere.”
                “Would you mind if I looked?” Mabel's eyes implored her little
                    hostess. “You see, if it's lost it's my fault. It's almost the same as stealing.
                    That Johnson would say it was just the same. I know he would.”
                “Let's all look again,” said Mabel, jumping up. “We were rather in a
                    hurry this morning.”
                So they looked, and they looked. In the bed, under the bed, under the carpet,
                    under the furniture. They shook the curtains, they explored the corners, and
                    found dust and flue, but no ring. They looked, and they looked. Everywhere they
                    looked. Jimmy even looked fixedly at the ceiling, as though he thought the ring
                    might have bounced up there and stuck. But it hadn't.
                “Then,” said Mabel at last, “your housemaid must have stolen it. That's all. I
                    shall tell her I think so.”
                
                And she would have done it too, but at that moment the front door banged and they
                    knew that Eliza had gone forth in all the glory of her best things to meet her
                    “gentleman friend.”
                “It's no use”—Mabel was almost in tears; “look here—will you leave me alone?
                    Perhaps you others looking distracts me. And I'll go over every inch of the room
                    by myself.”
                “Respecting the emotion of their guest, the kindly charcoal-burners withdrew,”
                    said Gerald. And they closed the door softly from the outside on Mabel and her
                    search.
                They waited for her, of course—politeness demanded it, and besides, they had to
                    stay at home to let Mademoiselle in; though it was a dazzling day, and Jimmy had
                    just remembered that Gerald's pockets were full of the money earned at the fair,
                    and that nothing had yet been bought with that money, except a few buns in which
                    he had had no share. And of course they waited impatiently.
                It seemed about an hour, and was really quite ten minutes, before they heard the
                    bedroom door open and Mabel's feet on the stairs.
                “She hadn't found it,” Gerald said.
                “How do you know?” Jimmy asked.
                “The way she walks,” said Gerald. You can, in fact, almost always tell whether
                    the thing has been found that people have gone to look for by the sound of their
                    feet as they return. Mabel's feet said “No go” as plain as they could speak. And
                    her face confirmed the cheerless news.
                
                A sudden and violent knocking at the back door prevented any one from having to
                    be polite about how sorry they were, or fanciful about being sure the ring would
                    turn up soon.
                All the servants except Eliza were away on their holidays, so the children went
                    together to open the door, because, as Gerald said, if it was the baker they
                    could buy a cake from him and eat it for dessert. “That kind of dinner sort of
                        needs dessert,” he said.
                But it was not the baker. When they opened the door they saw in the paved court
                    where the pump is, and the dust-bin, and the water-butt, a young man, with his
                    hat very much on one side, his mouth open under his fair bristly moustache, and
                    his eyes as nearly round as human eyes can be. He wore a suit of a bright
                    mustard colour, a blue necktie, and a goldish watch-chain across his waistcoat.
                    His body was thrown back and his right arm stretched out towards the door, and
                    his expression was that of a person who is being dragged somewhere against his
                    will. He looked so strange that Kathleen tried to shut the door in his face,
                    murmuring, “Escaped insane.” But the door would not close. There was something
                    in the way.
                “Leave go of me!” said the young man.
                “Ho yus! I'll leave go of you!” It was the voice of Eliza—but no Eliza could be
                    seen.
                “Who's got hold of you?” asked Kathleen.
                “She has, miss,” replied the unhappy stranger.
                “Who's she?” asked Kathleen, to gain time, as she afterwards explained, for she
                    now knew well enough that what was keeping the
                    door open was Eliza's unseen foot.
                “My fyongsay, miss. At least it sounds like her voice, and it feels like her
                    bones, but something's come over me, miss, an' I can't see her.”
                “That's what he keeps on saying,” said Eliza's voice. “E's my gentleman friend;
                    is 'e gone dotty, or is it me?”
                “Both, I shouldn't wonder,” said Jimmy.
                “Now,” said Eliza, “you call yourself a man; you look me in the face and say you
                    can't see me.”
                “Well—I can't,” said the wretched gentleman friend.
                “If I'd stolen a ring,” said Gerald, looking at the sky, “I should
                    go indoors and be quiet, not stand at the back door and make an exhibition of
                    myself.”
                “Not much exhibition about her,” whispered Jimmy; “good old ring!”
                “I haven't stolen anything,” said the gentleman friend. “Here, you
                    leave me be. It's my eyes has gone wrong. Leave go of me, d'ye hear?”
                Suddenly his hand dropped and he staggered back against the water-butt. Eliza had
                    “left go” of him. She pushed past the children, shoving them aside with her
                    invisible elbows. Gerald caught her by the arm with one hand, felt for her ear
                    with the other, and whispered, “You stand still and don't say a word. If you
                    do——well, what's to stop me from sending for the police?”
                
                
                Eliza did not know what there was to stop him. So she did as she was told, and
                    stood invisible and silent, save for a sort of blowing, snorting noise peculiar
                    to her when she was out of breath.
                The mustard-coloured young man had recovered his balance, and stood looking at
                    the children with eyes, if possible, rounder than before.
                “What is it?” he gasped feebly. “What's up? What's it all
                    about?”
                “If you don't know, I'm afraid we can't tell you,” said Gerald politely.
                “Have I been talking very strange-like?” he asked, taking off his hat and passing
                    his hand over his forehead.
                “Very,” said Mabel.
                “I hope I haven't said anything that wasn't good manners,” he said anxiously.
                “Not at all,” said Kathleen. “You only said your fiancée had hold of your hand, and that you couldn't see
                    her.”
                “No more I can.”
                “No more can we,” said Mabel.
                “But I couldn't have dreamed it, and then come along here making a penny show of
                    myself like this, could I?”
                “You know best,” said Gerald courteously.
                “But,” the mustard-coloured victim almost screamed, “do you mean to tell
                    me...”
                “I don't mean to tell you anything,” said Gerald quite truly, “but I'll give you
                    a bit of advice. You go home and lie down a bit and put a wet rag on your head. You'll be all right
                    to-morrow.”
                “But I haven't——”
                “I should,” said Mabel; “the sun's very hot, you know.”
                “I feel all right now,” he said, “but—well, I can only say I'm sorry, that's all
                    I can say. I've never been taken like this before, miss. I'm not subject to
                    it—don't you think that. But I could have sworn Eliza—— Aint she gone out to
                    meet me?”
                “Eliza's indoors,” said Mabel. “She can't come out to meet anybody to-day.”
                “You won't tell her about me carrying on this way, will you, miss? It might set
                    her against me if she thought I was liable to fits, which I never was from a
                    child.”
                “We won't tell Eliza anything about you.”
                “And you'll overlook the liberty?”
                “Of course. We know you couldn't help it,” said Kathleen. “You go home and lie
                    down. I'm sure you must need it. Good-afternoon.”
                “Good-afternoon, I'm sure, miss,” he said dreamily. “All the same I can feel the
                    print of her finger-bones on my hand while I'm saying it. And you won't let it
                    get round to my boss—my employer I mean? Fits of all sorts are against a man in
                    any trade.”
                “No, no, no, it's all right—goodbye,” said every one. And a silence
                    fell as he went slowly round the water-butt and the green yard-gate shut behind
                    him. The silence was broken by Eliza.
                
                “Give me up!” she said. “Give me up to break my heart in a prison cell!”
                There was a sudden splash, and a round wet drop lay on the doorstep.
                “Thunder shower,” said Jimmy; but it was a tear from Eliza.
                “Give me up,” she went on, “give me up”—splash—“but don't let me be took here in
                    the town where I'm known and respected”—splash. “I'll walk ten miles to be took
                    by a strange police—not Johnson as keeps company with my own cousin”—splash.
                    “But I do thank you for one thing. You didn't tell Elf as I'd stolen the ring.
                    And I didn't”—splash—“I only sort of borrowed it, it being my day out, and my
                    gentleman friend such a toff, like you can see for yourselves.”
                The children had watched, spellbound, the interesting tears that became visible
                    as they rolled off the invisible nose of the miserable Eliza. Now Gerald roused
                    himself, and spoke.
                “It's no use your talking,” he said. “We can't see you!”
                “That's what he said,” said Eliza's voice, “but——”
                “You can't see yourself,” Gerald went on. “Where's your hand?”
                Eliza, no doubt, tried to see it, and of course failed; for instantly, with a
                    shriek that might have brought the police if there had been any about, she went
                    into a violent fit of hysterics. The children did what they could, everything
                    that they had read of in books as suitable to
                    such occasions, but it is extremely difficult to do the right thing with an
                    invisible housemaid in strong hysterics and her best clothes. That was why the
                    best hat was found, later on, to be completely ruined, and why the best blue
                    dress was never quite itself again. And as they were burning bits of the feather
                    dusting-brush as nearly under Eliza's nose as they could guess, a sudden spurt
                    of flame and a horrible smell, as the flame died between the quick hands of
                    Gerald, showed but too plainly that Eliza's feather boa had tried to help.
                It did help. Eliza “came to” with a deep sob and said, “Don't, burn me real
                    ostrich stole; I'm better now.”
                They helped her up and she sat down on the bottom step, and the children
                    explained to her very carefully and quite kindly that she really was invisible,
                    and that if you steal—or even borrow—rings you can never be sure what will
                    happen to you.
                “But 'ave I got to go on stopping like this,” she moaned, when they had fetched
                    the little mahogany looking-glass from its nail over the kitchen sink, and
                    convinced her that she was really invisible, “for ever and ever? An' we was to a
                    bin married come Easter. No one won't marry a gell as 'e can't see. It aint
                    likely.”
                “No, not for ever and ever,” said Mabel kindly, “but you've got to go through
                    with it—like measles. I expect you'll be all right to-morrow.”
                
                “To-night, I think,” said Gerald.
                “We'll help you all we can, and not tell any one,” said Kathleen.
                “Not even the police,” said Jimmy.
                “Now let's get Mademoiselle's tea ready,” said Gerald.
                “And ours,” said Jimmy.
                “No,” said Gerald, “we'll have our tea out. We'll have a picnic and
                    we'll take Eliza. I'll go out and get the cakes.”
                “I shan't eat no cake, Master Jerry,” said Eliza's voice, “so don't
                    you think it. You'd see it going down inside my chest. It wouldn't be what I
                    should call nice of me to have cake showing through me in the open air. Oh, it's
                    a dreadful judgment—just for a borrow!”
                They reassured her, set the tea, deputed Kathleen to let in Mademoiselle—who came
                    home tired and a little sad, it seemed—waited for her and Gerald and the cakes,
                    and started off for Yalding Towers.
                “Picnic parties aren't allowed,” said Mabel.
                “Ours will be,” said Gerald briefly. “Now, Eliza, you catch on to Kathleen's arm
                    and I'll walk behind to conceal your shadow. My aunt! take your hat off. It
                    makes your shadow look like I don't know what. People will think we're the
                    county lunatic asylum turned loose.”
                It was then that the hat, becoming visible in Kathleen's hand, showed how little
                    of the sprinkled water had gone where it was meant to go—on Eliza's face.
                
                “Me best 'at,” said Eliza, and there was a silence with sniffs in it.
                “Look here,” said Mabel, “you cheer up. Just you think this is all a dream. It's
                    just the kind of thing you might dream if your conscience had got pains in it
                    about the ring.”
                “But will I wake up again?”
                “Oh yes, you'll wake up again. Now we're going to bandage your eyes and take you
                    through a very small door, and don't you resist, or we'll bring a policeman into
                    the dream like a shot.”
                I have not time to describe Eliza's entrance into the cave. She went head first:
                    the girls propelled and the boys received her. If Gerald had not thought of
                    tying her hands some one would certainly have been scratched. As it was Mabel's
                    hand was scraped between the cold rock and a passionate boot-heel. Nor will I
                    tell you all that she said as they led her along the fern-bordered gully and
                    through the arch into the wonderland of Italian scenery. She had but little
                    language left when they removed her bandage under a weeping willow where a
                    statue of Diana, bow in hand, stood poised on one toe, a most unsuitable
                    attitude for archery, I have always thought.
                “Now,” said Gerald, “it's all over—nothing but niceness now and cake and
                    things.”
                “It's time we did have our tea,” said Jimmy. And it was.
                Eliza, once convinced that her chest, though invisible, was not transparent, and
                    that her companions could not by looking
                    through it count how many buns she had eaten, made an excellent meal. So did the
                    others. If you want really to enjoy your tea, have minced veal and potatoes and
                    rice-pudding for dinner, with several hours of excitement to follow, and take
                    your tea late.
                The soft, cool green and grey of the garden were changing—the green grew golden,
                    the shadows black, and the lake where the swans were mirrored upside down, under
                    the Temple of Phœbus, was bathed in rosy light from the little fluffy clouds
                    that lay opposite the sunset.
                “It is pretty,” said Eliza, “just like a picture-postcard, aint
                    it?—the tuppenny kind.”
                “I ought to be getting home,” said Mabel.
                “I can't go home like this. I'd stay and be a savage and live in that white hut
                    if it had any walls and doors,” said Eliza.
                “She means the Temple of Dionysus,” said Mabel, pointing to it.
                The sun set suddenly behind the line of black fir-trees on the top of the slope,
                    and the white temple, that had been pink, turned grey.
                “It would be a very nice place to live in even as it is,” said Kathleen.
                “Draughty,” said Eliza, “and law, what a lot of steps to clean! What they make
                    houses for without no walls to 'em? Who'd live in——” She broke off, stared, and
                    added: “What's that?”
                “What?”
                “That white thing coming down the steps. Why, it's a young man in statooary.”
                
                “The statues do come alive here, after sunset,” said Gerald in very
                    matter-of-fact tones.
                “I see they do.” Eliza did not seem at all surprised or alarmed. “There's another
                    of 'em. Look at them little wings to his feet like pigeons.”
                “I expect that's Mercury,” said Gerald.
                “It's ‘Hermes’ under the statue that's got wings on its feet,” said Mabel,
                    “but——”
                “I don't see any statues,” said Jimmy. “What are you punching me
                    for?”
                “Don't you see?” Gerald whispered; but he need not have been so troubled, for all
                    Eliza's attention was with her wandering eyes that followed hither and thither
                    the quick movements of unseen statues. “Don't you see? The statues come alive
                    when the sun goes down—and you can't see them unless you're invisible—-and
                        I—if you do see them you're not frightened—unless
                    you touch them.”
                “Let's get her to touch one and see,” said Jimmy.
                “'E's lep' into the water,” said Eliza in a rapt voice. “My, can't he swim
                    neither! And the one with the pigeons' wings is flying all over the lake having
                    larks with 'im. I do call that pretty. It's like cupids as you see on
                    wedding-cakes. And here's another of 'em, a little chap with long ears and a
                    baby deer galloping alongside! An' look at the lady with the biby, throwing it
                    up and catching it like as if it was a ball. I wonder she ain't afraid. But it's
                    pretty to see 'em.”
                
                
                The broad park lay stretched before the children in growing greyness and a
                    stillness that deepened. Amid the thickening shadows they could see the statues
                    gleam white and motionless. But Eliza saw other things. She watched in silence
                    presently, and they watched silently, and the evening fell like a veil that grew
                    heavier and blacker. And it was night. And the moon came up above the trees.
                “Oh,” cried Eliza suddenly, “here's the dear little boy with the deer—he's coming
                    right for me, bless his heart!”
                Next moment she was screaming, and her screams grew fainter and there was the
                    sound of swift boots on gravel.
                “Come on!” cried Gerald; “she touched it, and then she was frightened. Just like
                    I was. Run! she'll send every one in the town mad if she gets there like that.
                    Just a voice and boots! Run! Run!”
                They ran. But Eliza had the start of them. Also when she ran on the grass they
                    could not hear her footsteps and had to wait for the sound of leather on
                    far-away gravel. Also she was driven by fear, and fear drives fast.
                She went, it seemed, the nearest way, invisibly through the waxing moonlight,
                    seeing she only knew what amid the glades and groves.
                “I'll stop here; see you to-morrow,” gasped Mabel, as the loud pursuers followed
                    Eliza's clatter across the terrace. “She's gone through the stable yard.”
                “The back way,” Gerald panted as they turned
                    the corner of their own street, and he and Jimmy swung in past the
                    water-butt.
                An unseen but agitated presence seemed to be fumbling with the locked back-door.
                    The church clock struck the half-hour.
                “Half-past nine,” Gerald had just breath to say. “Pull at the ring. Perhaps it'll
                    come off now.”
                He spoke to the bare doorstep. But it was Eliza, dishevelled, breathless, her
                    hair coming down, her collar crooked, her dress twisted and disordered, who
                    suddenly held out a hand—a hand that they could see; and in the hand, plainly
                    visible in the moonlight, the dark circle of the magic ring.
                
                “'Alf a mo!” said Eliza's gentleman friend next morning. He was waiting for her
                    when she opened the door with pail and hearthstone in her hand. “Sorry you
                    couldn't come out yesterday.”
                “So'm I.” Eliza swept the wet flannel along the top step. “What did you do?”
                “I 'ad a bit of a headache,” said the gentleman friend. “I laid down most of the
                    afternoon. What were you up to?”
                “Oh, nothing pertickler,” said Eliza.
                
                “Then it was all a dream,” she said, when he was gone; “but it'll be a lesson to
                    me not
                     to meddle with anybody's old ring again in a
                    hurry.”
                “So they didn't tell 'er about me behaving like I did,” said he as he went—“sun,
                    I suppose—like our Army in India. I hope I aint going to be liable to it, that's
                    all!”
            
            
                
                CHAPTER VI
                JOHNSON was the hero of the hour. It was he who had tracked the
                    burglars, laid his plans, and recovered the lost silver. He had not thrown the
                    stone—public opinion decided that Mabel and her aunt must have been mistaken in
                    supposing that there was a stone at all. But he did not deny the warning letter.
                    It was Gerald who went out after breakfast to buy the newspaper, and who read
                    aloud to the others the two columns of fiction which were the Liddlesby
                        Observer's report of the facts. As he read every mouth opened wider
                    and wider, and when he ceased with “this gifted fellow-townsman with detective
                    instincts which outrival those of Messrs. Lecoq and Holmes, and whose promotion
                    is now assured,” there was quite a blank silence.
                “Well,” said Jimmy, breaking it, “he doesn't stick it on neither, does he?”
                “I feel,” said Kathleen, “as if it was our fault—as if it was us had told all
                    these whoppers; because if it hadn't been for you they couldn't have, Jerry. How
                    could he say all that?”
                “Well,” said Gerald, trying to be fair, “you
                    know, after all, the chap had to say something. I'm glad I——” He stopped
                    abruptly.
                “You're glad you what?”
                “No matter,” said he, with an air of putting away affairs of state. “Now, what
                    are we going to do to-day? The faithful Mabel approaches; she will want her
                    ring. And you and Jimmy want it too. Oh, I know. Mademoiselle hasn't had any
                    attention paid to her for more days than our hero likes to confess.”
                “I wish you wouldn't always call yourself ‘our hero,’” said Jimmy; “you aren't
                    mine, anyhow.”
                “You're both of you mine,” said Kathleen hastily.
                “Good little girl.” Gerald smiled annoyingly. “Keep baby brother in a good temper
                    till Nursie comes back.”
                “You're not going out without us?” Kathleen asked in haste.
                
                        
                            “‘I haste away,
                            'Tis market day,’”
                        
                     sang Gerald, 
                        
                            “‘And in the market there
                            Buy roses for my fair.’
                        
                     If you want to come too, get your boots on, and look slippy about it.”
                “I don't want to come,” said Jimmy, and sniffed.
                Kathleen turned a despairing look on Gerald.
                “Oh, James, James,” said Gerald sadly, “how
                    difficult you make it for me to forget that you're my little brother! If ever I
                    treat you like one of the other chaps, and rot you like I should Turner or
                    Moberley or any of my pals—well, this is what comes of it.”
                “You don't call them your baby brothers,” said Jimmy, and truly.
                “No; and I'll take precious good care I don't call you it again. Come on, my hero
                    and heroine. The devoted Mesrour is your salaaming slave.”
                The three met Mabel opportunely at the corner of the square where every Friday
                    the stalls and the awnings and the green umbrellas were pitched, and poultry,
                    pork, pottery, vegetables, drapery, sweets, toys, tools, mirrors, and all sorts
                    of other interesting merchandise were spread out on trestle tables, piled on
                    carts whose horses were stabled and whose shafts were held in place by piled
                    wooden cases, or laid out, as in the case of crockery and hardware, on the bare
                    flagstones of the marketplace.
                The sun was shining with great goodwill, and, as Mabel remarked, “all Nature
                    looked smiling and gay.” There were a few bunches of flowers among the
                    vegetables, and the children hesitated, balanced in choice.
                “Mignonette is sweet,” said Mabel.
                “Roses are roses,” said Kathleen.
                “Carnations are tuppence,” said Jimmy; and Gerald, sniffing among the bunches of
                    tightly-tied tea-roses, agreed that this settled it.
                
                So the carnations were bought, a bunch of yellow ones, like sulphur, a bunch of
                    white ones like clotted cream, and a bunch of red ones like the cheeks of the
                    doll that Kathleen never played with. They took the carnations home, and
                    Kathleen's green hair-ribbon came in beautifully for tying them up, which was
                    hastily done on the doorstep.
                Then discreetly Gerald knocked at the door of the drawing-room, where
                    Mademoiselle seemed to sit all day.
                “Entrez!” came her voice; and Gerald entered. She was not reading, as usual, but
                    bent over a sketch-book; on the table was an open colour-box of un-English
                    appearance, and a box of that slate-coloured liquid so familiar alike to the
                    greatest artist in water-colours and to the humblest child with a sixpenny
                    paint-box.
                “With all of our loves,” said Gerald, laying the flowers down suddenly before
                    her.
                “But it is that you are a dear child. For this it must that I embrace you—no?”
                    And before Gerald could explain that he was too old, she kissed him with little
                    quick French pecks on the two cheeks.
                “Are you painting?” he asked hurriedly, to hide his annoyance at being treated
                    like a baby.
                “I achieve a sketch of yesterday,” she answered; and before he had time to wonder
                    what yesterday would look like in a picture she showed him a beautiful and exact
                    sketch of Yalding Towers.
                
                
                “Oh, I say—ripping!” was the critic's comment. “I say, mayn't the others come and
                    see?” The others came, including Mabel, who stood awkwardly behind the rest, and
                    looked over Jimmy's shoulder.
                “I say, you are clever,” said Gerald respectfully.
                “To what good to have the talent, when one must pass one's life at teaching the
                    infants?” said Mademoiselle.
                “It must be fairly beastly,” Gerald owned.
                “You, too, see the design?” Mademoiselle asked Mabel, adding: “A friend from the
                    town, yes?”
                “How do you do?” said Mabel politely. “No, I'm not from the town. I live at
                    Yalding Towers.”
                The name seemed to impress Mademoiselle very much. Gerald anxiously hoped in his
                    own mind that she was not a snob.
                “Yalding Towers,” she repeated, “but this is very extraordinary. Is it possible
                    that you are then of the family of Lord Yalding?”
                “He hasn't any family,” said Mabel; “he's not married.”
                “I would say are you—how you say?—cousin—sister—niece?”
                “No,” said Mabel, flushing hotly, “I'm nothing grand at all. I'm Lord Yalding's
                    housekeeper's niece.”
                “But you know Lord Yalding, is it not?”
                “No,” said Mabel, “I've never seen him.”
                “He comes then never to his château?”
                
                “Not since I've lived there. But he's coming next week.”
                “Why lives he not there?” Mademoiselle asked.
                “Auntie say he's too poor,” said Mabel, and proceeded to tell the tale as she had
                    heard it in the housekeeper's room: how Lord Yalding's uncle had left all the
                    money he could leave away from Lord Yalding to Lord Yalding's second cousin, and
                    poor Lord Yalding had only just enough to keep the old place in repair, and to
                    live very quietly indeed somewhere else; but not enough to keep the house open
                    or to live there; and how he couldn't sell the house because it was “in
                    tale.”
                “What is it then—in tail?” asked Mademoiselle.
                “In a tale that the lawyers write out,” said Mabel, proud of her knowledge and
                    flattered by the deep interest of the French governess; “and when once they've
                    put your house in one of their tales you can't sell it or give it away, but you
                    have to leave it to your son, even if you don't want to.”
                “But how his uncle could he be so cruel—to leave him the château and no money?”
                    Mademoiselle asked; and Kathleen and Jimmy stood amazed at the sudden keenness
                    of her interest in what seemed to them the dullest story.
                “Oh, I can tell you that too,” said Mabel. “Lord Yaiding wanted to marry a lady
                    his uncle didn't want him to, a barmaid or a ballet lady or something, and he
                        wouldn't give her up, and his uncle said,
                    ‘Well then,’ and left everything to the cousin.”
                “And you say he is not married.”
                “No—the lady went into a convent; I expect she's bricked-up alive by now.”
                “Bricked——?”
                “In a wall, you know,” said Mabel, pointing explainingly at the pink and gilt
                    roses of the wall-paper, “shut up to kill them. That's what they do to you in
                    convents.”
                “Not at all,” said Mademoiselle; “in convents are very kind good women; there is
                    but one thing in convents that is detestable—the locks on the doors. Sometimes
                    people cannot get out, especially when they are very young and their relations
                    have placed them there for their welfare and happiness. But brick—how you say
                    it?—enwalling ladies to kill them. No—it does itself never. And this Lord—he did
                    not then seek his lady?”
                “Oh, yes—he sought her right enough,” Mabel assured her; “but there are millions
                    of convents, you know, and he had no idea where to look, and they sent back his
                    letters from the post-office, and——”
                “Ciel!” cried Mademoiselle, “but it seems that one knows all in the housekeeper's
                    saloon.”
                “Pretty well all,” said Mabel simply.
                “And you think he will find her? No?”
                “Oh, he'll find her all right,” said Mabel, “when he's old and broken down, you
                    know—and dying; and then a gentle sister of charity will soothe his pillow, and just when he's dying
                    she'll reveal herself and say: ‘My own lost love!’ and his face will light up
                    with a wonderful joy and he'll expire with her beloved name on his parched
                    lips.”
                Mademoiselle's was the silence of sheer astonishment. “You do the prophesy, it
                    appears?” she said at last.
                “Oh no,” said Mabel, “I got that out of a book. I can tell you lots more fatal
                    love stories any time you like.”
                The French governess gave a little jump, as though she had suddenly remembered
                    something.
                “It is nearly dinner-time,” she said. “Your friend—Mabelle, yes—will be your
                    convivial, and in her honour we will make a little feast. My beautiful
                    flowers—put them to the water, Kathleen. I run to buy the cakes. Wash the hands,
                    all, and be ready when I return.”
                Smiling and nodding to the children, she left them, and ran up the stairs.
                “Just as if she was young,” said Kathleen.
                “She is young,” said Mabel. “Heaps of ladies have offers of marriage
                    when they're no younger than her. I've seen lots of weddings too, with much
                    older brides. And why didn't you tell me she was so beautiful?”
                “Is she?” asked Kathleen.
                “Of course she is; and what a darling to think of cakes for me, and calling me a
                    convivial!”
                
                “Look here,” said Gerald, “I call this jolly decent of her. You know, governesses
                    never have more than the meanest pittance, just enough to sustain life, and here
                    she is spending her little all on us. Supposing we just don't go out to-day, but
                    play with her instead. I expect she's most awfully bored really.”
                “Would she really like it?” Kathleen wondered. “Aunt Emily says grown-ups never
                    really like playing. They do it to please us.”
                “They little know,” Gerald answered, “how often we do it to please them.”
                “We've got to do that dressing-up with the Princess clothes anyhow—we said we
                    would,” said Kathleen. “Let's treat her to that.”
                “Rather near tea-time,” urged Jimmy, “so that there'll be a fortunate
                    interruption and the play won't go on for ever.”
                “I suppose all the things are safe?” Mabel asked.
                “Quite. I told you where I put them. Come on, Jimmy; let's help lay the table.
                    We'll get Eliza to put out the best china.”
                They went.
                “It was lucky,” said Gerald, struck by a sudden thought, “that the burglars
                    didn't go for the diamonds in the treasure-chamber.”
                “They couldn't,” said Mabel almost in a whisper; “they didn't know about them. I
                    don't believe anybody knows about them, except me—and you, and you're sworn to
                    secrecy.” This, you will remember, had been done almost at the beginning. “I
                    know aunt doesn't know. I just found out the
                    spring by accident. Lord Yalding's kept the secret well.”
                “I wish I'd got a secret like that to keep,” said Gerald.
                “If the burglars do know,” said Mabel, “it'll all come out at the
                    trial. Lawyers make you tell everything you know at trials, and a lot of lies
                    besides.”
                “There won't be any trial,” said Gerald, kicking the leg of the piano
                    thoughtfully.
                “No trial?”
                “It said in the paper,” Gerald went on slowly, “‘The miscreants must have
                    received warning from a confederate, for the admirable preparations to arrest
                    them as they returned for their ill-gotten plunder were unavailing. But the
                    police have a clue.’”
                “What a pity!” said Mabel.
                “You needn't worry—they haven't got any old clue,” said Gerald, still attentive
                    to the piano leg.
                “I didn't mean the clue; I meant the confederate.”
                “It's a pity you think he's a pity, because he was me,” said Gerald,
                    standing up and leaving the piano leg alone. He looked straight before him, as
                    the boy on the burning deck may have looked.
                “I couldn't help it,” he said. “I know you'll think I'm a criminal, but I
                    couldn't do it. I don't know how detectives can. I went over a prison once, with
                    father; and after I'd given the tip to Johnson I remembered that, and I just couldn't. I know I'm a beast, and not
                    worthy to be a British citizen.”
                “I think it was rather nice of you,” said Mabel kindly. “How did you warn
                    them?”
                “I just shoved a paper under the man's door—the one that I knew where he lived—to
                    tell him to lie low.”
                “Oh! do tell me—what did you put on it exactly?” Mabel warmed to this new
                    interest.
                “It said: ‘The police know all except your names. Be virtuous and you are safe.
                    But if there's any more burgling I shall split and you may rely on that from a
                    friend.’ I know it was wrong, but I couldn't help it. Don't tell the others.
                    They wouldn't understand why I did it. I don't understand it myself.”
                “I do,” said Mabel: “it's because you've got a kind and noble heart.”
                “Kind fiddlestick, my good child!” said Gerald, suddenly losing the burning boy
                    expression and becoming in a flash entirely himself. “Cut along and wash your
                    hands; you're as black as ink.”
                “So are you,” said Mabel, “and I'm not. It's dye with me. Auntie was dyeing a
                    blouse this morning. It told you how in Home Drivel—and she's as
                    black as ink too, and the blouse is all streaky. Pity the ring won't make just
                    parts of you invisible—the dirt, for instance.”
                “Perhaps,” Gerald said unexpectedly, “it won't make even all of you invisible
                    again.”
                “Why not? You haven't been doing anything to it—have you?” Mabel sharply
                    asked.
                
                “No; but didn't you notice you were invisible twenty-one hours; I was fourteen
                    hours invisible, and Eliza only seven—that's seven less each time. And now we've
                    come to——”
                “How frightfully good you are at sums!” said Mabel, awestruck.
                “You see, it's got seven hours less each time, and seven from seven is nought;
                    it's got to be something different this time. And then afterwards—it can't be
                    minus seven, because I don't see how—unless it made you more visible—thicker,
                    you know.”
                “Don't!” said Mabel; “you make my head go round.”
                “And there's another odd thing,” Gerald went on; “when you're invisible your
                    relations don't love you. Look at your aunt, and Cathy never turning a hair at
                    me going burgling. We haven't got to the bottom of that ring yet. Crikey! here's
                    Mademoiselle with the cakes. Run, bold bandits—wash for your lives!”
                They ran.
                It was not cakes only; it was plums and grapes and jam tarts and soda-water and
                    raspberry vinegar, and chocolates in pretty boxes and “pure, thick, rich” cream
                    in brown jugs, also a big bunch of roses. Mademoiselle was strangely merry, for
                    a governess. She served out the cakes and tarts with a liberal hand, made
                    wreaths of the flowers for all their heads—she was not eating much herself—drank
                    the health of Mabel, as the guest of the day, in the beautiful pink drink that
                    comes from mixing raspberry vinegar and
                    soda-water, and actually persuaded Jimmy to wear his wreath, on the ground that
                    the Greek gods as well as the goddesses always wore wreaths at a feast.
                There never was such a feast provided by any French governess since French
                    governesses began. There were jokes and stories and laughter. Jimmy showed all
                    those tricks with forks and corks and matches and apples which are so deservedly
                    popular. Mademoiselle told them stories of her own school-days when she was “a
                    quite little girl with two tight tresses—so,” and when they could not understand
                    the tresses, called for paper and pencil and drew the loveliest little picture
                    of herself when she was a child with two short fat pig-tails sticking out from
                    her head like knitting-needles from a ball of dark worsted. Then she drew
                    pictures of everything they asked for, till Mabel pulled Gerald's jacket and
                    whispered: “The acting!”
                “Draw us the front of a theatre,” said Gerald tactfully, “a French theatre.”
                “They are the same thing as the English theatres,” Mademoiselle told him.
                “Do you like acting—the theatre, I mean?”
                “But yes—I love it.”
                “All right,” said Gerald briefly. “We'll act a play for you—now—this afternoon if
                    you like.”
                “Eliza will be washing up,” Cathy whispered, “and she was promised to see
                    it.”
                “Or this evening,” said Gerald; “and please, Mademoiselle, may Eliza come in and
                    look on?”
                
                “But certainly,” said Mademoiselle; “amuse yourselves well, my children.”
                “But it's you,” said Mabel suddenly, “that we want to amuse. Because
                    we love you very much—don't we, all of you?”
                “Yes,” the chorus came unhesitatingly. Though the others would never have thought
                    of saying such a thing on their own account. Yet, as Mabel said it, they found
                    to their surprise that it was true.
                “Tiens!” said Mademoiselle, “you love the old French governess? Impossible,” and
                    she spoke rather indistinctly.
                “You're not old,” said Mabel; “at least not so very,” she added brightly, “and
                    you're as lovely as a Princess.”
                “Go then, flatteress!” said Mademoiselle, laughing; and Mabel went. The others
                    were already half-way up the stairs.
                Mademoiselle sat in the drawing-room as usual, and it was a good thing that she
                    was not engaged in serious study, for it seemed that the door opened and shut
                    almost ceaselessly all throughout the afternoon. Might they have the embroidered
                    antimacassars and the sofa cushions? Might they have the clothes-line out of the
                    washhouse? Eliza said they mightn't, but might they? Might they have the
                    sheep-skin hearth-rugs? Might they have tea in the garden, because they had
                    almost got the stage ready in the dining-room, and Eliza wanted to set tea?
                    Could Mademoiselle lend them any coloured clothes-scarves or dressing-gowns,
                        or
                     anything bright? Yes, Mademoiselle could, and
                    did—silk things, surprisingly lovely for a governess to have. Had Mademoiselle
                    any rouge? They had always heard that French ladies—— No. Mademoiselle
                    hadn't—and to judge by the colour of her face, Mademoiselle didn't need it. Did
                    Mademoiselle think the chemist sold rouge—or had she any false hair to spare? At
                    this challenge Mademoiselle's pale fingers pulled out a dozen hairpins, and down
                    came the loveliest blue-black hair, hanging to her knees in straight, heavy
                    lines.
                “No, you terrible infants,” she cried. “I have not the false hair, nor the rouge.
                    And my teeth—you want them also, without doubt?”
                She showed them in a laugh.
                “I said you were a Princess,” said Mabel, “and now I know. You're
                    Rupunzel. Do always wear your hair like that! May we have the peacock fans,
                    please, off the mantelpiece, and the things that loop back the curtains, and all
                    the handkerchiefs you've got?”
                Mademoiselle denied them nothing. They had the fans and the handkerchiefs and
                    some large sheets of expensive drawing-paper out of the school cupboard, and
                    Mademoiselle's best sable paint-brush and her paint-box.
                “Who would have thought,” murmured Gerald, pensively sucking the brush and gazing
                    at the paper mask he had just painted, “that she was such a brick in disguise? I
                    wonder why crimson lake always tastes just like Liebig's Extract.”
                
                Everything was pleasant that day somehow. There are some days like that, you
                    know, when everything goes well from the very beginning; all the things you want
                    are in their places, nobody misunderstands you, and all that you do turns out
                    admirably. How different from those other days which we all know too well, when
                    your shoe-lace breaks, your comb is mislaid, your brush spins on its back on the
                    floor and lands under the bed where you can't get at it—you drop the soap, your
                    buttons come off, an eyelash gets into your eye, you have used your last clean
                    handkerchief, your collar is frayed at the edge and cuts your neck, and at the
                    very last moment your suspender breaks, and there is no string. On such a day as
                    this you are naturally late for breakfast, and every one thinks you did it on
                    purpose. And the day goes on and on, getting worse and worse—you mislay your
                    exercise-book, you drop your arithmetic in the mud, your pencil breaks, and when
                    you open your knife to sharpen the pencil you split your nail. On such a day you
                    jam your thumb in doors, and muddle the messages you are sent on by grown-ups.
                    You upset your tea, and your bread-and-butter won't hold together for a moment.
                    And when at last you get to bed—usually in disgrace—it is no comfort at all to
                    you to know that not a single bit of it is your own fault.
                This day was not one of those days, as you will have noticed. Even the tea in the
                    garden—there was a bricked bit by a rockery that made a steady floor for the tea-table—was most delightful,
                    though the thoughts of four out of the five were busy with the coming play, and
                    the fifth had thoughts of her own that had had nothing to do with tea or
                    acting.
                Then there was an interval of slamming doors, interesting silences, feet that
                    flew up and down stairs.
                It was still good daylight when the dinner-bell rang—the signal had been agreed
                    upon at tea-time, and carefully explained to Eliza. Mademoiselle laid down her
                    book and passed out of the sunset-yellowed hall into the faint yellow gaslight
                    of the dining-room. The giggling Eliza held the door open before her, and
                    followed her in. The shutters had been closed—streaks of daylight showed above
                    and below them. The green-and-black tablecloths of the school dining-tables were
                    supported on the clothes-line from the backyard. The line sagged in a graceful
                    curve, but it answered its purpose of supporting the curtains which concealed
                    that part of the room which was the stage.
                Rows of chairs had been placed across the other end of the room—all the chairs in
                    the house, as it seemed—and Mademoiselle started violently when she saw that
                    fully half a dozen of these chairs were occupied. And by the queerest people,
                    too—an old woman with a poke bonnet tied under her chin with a red handkerchief,
                    a lady in a large straw hat wreathed in flowers and the oddest hands that stuck
                    out over the chair in front of her, several
                     men with strange, clumsy figures, and all
                    with hats on.
                “But,” whispered Mademoiselle, through the chinks of the tablecloths, “you have
                    then invited other friends? You should have asked me, my children.”
                Laughter and something like a “hurrah” answered her from behind the folds of the
                    curtaining tablecloths.
                “All right, Mademoiselle Rapunzel,” cried Mabel; “turn the gas up. It's only part
                    of the entertainment.”
                Eliza, still giggling, pushed through the lines of chairs, knocking off the hat
                    of one of the visitors as she did so, and turned up the three incandescent
                    burners.
                Mademoiselle looked at the figure seated nearest to her, stooped to look more
                    closely, half laughed, quite screamed, and sat down suddenly.
                “Oh!” she cried, “they are not alive!”
                Eliza, with a much louder scream, had found out the same thing and announced it
                    differently. “They ain't got no insides,” said she. The seven members of the
                    audience seated among the wilderness of chairs had, indeed, no insides to speak
                    of. Their bodies were bolsters and rolled-up blankets, their spines were
                    broom-handles, and their arm and leg bones were hockey sticks and umbrellas.
                    Their shoulders were the wooden cross-pieces that Mademoiselle used for keeping
                    her jackets in shape; their hands were gloves stuffed out with handkerchiefs;
                    and their faces were the paper masks painted
                    in the afternoon by the untutored brush of Gerald, tied on to the round heads
                    made of the ends of stuffed bolster-cases. The faces were really rather
                    dreadful. Gerald had done his best, but even after his best had been done you
                    would hardly have known they were faces, some of them, if they hadn't been in
                    the positions which faces usually occupy, between the collar and the hat. Their
                    eyebrows were furious with lamp-black frowns—their eyes the size, and almost the
                    shape, of five-shilling pieces, and on their lips and cheeks had been spent much
                    crimson lake and nearly the whole of a half-pan of vermilion.
                “You have made yourself an auditors, yes? Bravo!” cried Mademoiselle, recovering
                    herself and beginning to clap. And to the sound of that clapping the curtain
                    went up—or, rather, apart. A voice said, in a breathless, choked way, “Beauty
                    and the Beast,” and the stage was revealed.
                It was a real stage too—the dining-tables pushed close together and covered with
                    pink-and-white counterpanes. It was a little unsteady and creaky to walk on, but
                    very imposing to look at. The scene was simple, but convincing. A big sheet of
                    cardboard, bent square, with slits cut in it and a candle behind, represented,
                    quite transparently, the domestic hearth; a round hat-tin of Eliza's, supported
                    on a stool with a night-light under it, could not have been mistaken, save by
                    wilful malice, for anything but a copper. A
                    waste-paper basket with two or three school dusters and an overcoat in it, and a
                    pair of blue pyjamas over the back of a chair, put the finishing touch to the
                    scene. It did not need the announcement from the wings, “The laundry at Beauty's
                    home.” It was so plainly a laundry and nothing else.
                In the wings: “They look just like a real audience, don't they?” whispered Mabel.
                    “Go on, Jimmy,—don't forget the Merchant has to be pompous and use long
                    words.”
                Jimmy, enlarged by pillows under Gerald's best overcoat, which had been
                    intentionally bought with a view to his probable growth during the two years
                    which it was intended to last him, a Turkish towel turban on his head and an
                    open umbrella over it, opened the first act in a simple and swift soliloquy:
                “I am the most unlucky merchant that ever was. I was once the richest merchant in
                    Bagdad, but I lost all my ships, and now I live in a poor house that is all to
                    bits; you can see how the rain comes through the roof, and my daughters take in
                    washing. And——”
                The pause might have seemed long, but Gerald rustled in, elegant in
                    Mademoiselle's pink dressing-gown and the character of the eldest daughter.
                “A nice drying day,” he minced. “Pa dear, put the umbrella the other way up.
                    It'll save us going out in the rain to fetch water. Come on, sisters, dear
                    father's got us a new wash-tub. Here's luxury!”
                
                Round the umbrella, now held the wrong way up, the three sisters knelt and washed
                    imaginary linen. Kathleen wore a violet skirt of Eliza's, a blue blouse of her
                    own, and a cap of knotted handkerchiefs. A white nightdress girt with a white
                    apron and two red carnations in Mabel's black hair left no doubt as to which of
                    the three was Beauty.
                The scene went very well. The final dance with waving towels was all that there
                    is of charming, Mademoiselle said; and Eliza was so much amused that, as she
                    said, she got quite a nasty stitch along of laughing so hearty.
                You know pretty well what Beauty and the Beast would be like acted by four
                    children who had spent the afternoon in arranging their costumes and so had left
                    no time for rehearsing what they had to say. Yet it delighted them, and it
                    charmed their audience. And what more can any play do, even Shakespeare's?
                    Mabel, in her Princess clothes, was a resplendent Beauty; and Gerald a Beast who
                    wore the drawing-room hearthrugs with an air of indescribable distinction. If
                    Jimmy was not a talkative merchant, he made it up with a stoutness practically
                    unlimited, and Kathleen surprised and delighted even herself by the quickness
                    with which she changed from one to the other of the minor characters—fairies,
                    servants, and messengers. It was at the end of the second act that Mabel, whose
                    costume, having reached the height of elegance, could not be bettered and
                    therefore did not need to be changed, said to Gerald, sweltering under the weighty magnificence of his
                    beast-skin:—
                “I say, you might let us have the ring back.”
                “I'm going to,” said Gerald, who had quite forgotten it. “I'll give it you in the
                    next scene. Only don't lose it, or go putting it on. You might go out all
                    together and never be seen again, or you might get seven times as visible as any
                    one else, so that all the rest of us would look like shadows beside you, you'd
                    be so thick, or——”
                “Ready!” said Kathleen, bustling in, once more a wicked sister.
                Gerald managed to get his hand into his pocket under his hearthrug, and when he
                    rolled his eyes in agonies of sentiment, and said, “Farewell, dear Beauty!
                    Return quickly, for if you remain long absent from your faithful beast he will
                    assuredly perish,” he pressed a ring into her hand and added: “This is a magic
                    ring that will give you anything you wish. When you desire to return to your own
                    disinterested beast, put on the ring and utter your wish. Instantly you will be
                    by my side.”
                Beauty-Mabel took the ring, and it was the ring.
                The curtains closed to warm applause from two pairs of hands.
                The next scene went splendidly. The sisters were almost too natural
                    in their disagreeableness, and Beauty's annoyance when they splashed her
                    Princess's dress with real soap and water was
                    considered a miracle of good acting. Even the merchant rose to something more
                    than mere pillows, and the curtain fell on his pathetic assurance that in the
                    absence of his dear Beauty he was wasting away to a shadow. And again two pairs
                    of hands applauded.
                “Here, Mabel, catch hold,” Gerald appealed from under the weight of a
                    towel-horse, the tea-urn, the tea-tray, and the green baize apron of the boot
                    boy, which together with four red geraniums from the landing, the pampas-grass
                    from the drawing-room fireplace, and the indiarubber plants from the
                    drawing-room window were to represent the fountains and garden of the last act.
                    The applause had died away.
                “I wish,” said Mabel, taking on herself the weight of the tea-urn, “I wish those
                    creatures we made were alive. We should get something like applause then.”
                “I'm jolly glad they aren't,” said Gerald, arranging the baize and the
                    towel-horse. “Brutes! It makes me feel quite silly when I catch their paper
                    eyes.”
                The curtains were drawn back. There lay the hearth-rug-coated beast, in flat
                    abandonment among the tropic beauties of the garden, the pampas-grass shrubbery,
                    the indiarubber plant bushes, the geranium-trees and the urn fountain. Beauty
                    was ready to make her great entry in all the thrilling splendour of despair. And
                    then suddenly it all happened.
                Mademoiselle began it: she applauded the garden scene—with hurried little
                    clappings of her quick French hands. Eliza's
                    fat red palms followed heavily, and then—some one else was clapping, six or
                    seven people, and their clapping made a dull padded sound. Nine faces instead of
                    two were turned towards the stage, and seven out of the nine were painted,
                    pointed paper faces. And every hand and every face was alive. The applause grew
                    louder as Mabel glided forward, and as she paused and looked at the audience her
                    unstudied pose of horror and amazement drew forth applause louder still; but it
                    was not loud enough to drown the shrieks of Mademoiselle and Eliza as they
                    rushed from the room, knocking chairs over and crushing each other in the
                    doorway. Two distant doors banged, Mademoiselle's door and Eliza's door.
                “Curtain! curtain! quick!” cried Beauty-Mabel, in a voice that wasn't Mabel's or
                    the Beauty's. “Jerry—those things have come alive. Oh, whatever
                    shall we do?”
                Gerald in his hearthrugs leaped to his feet. Again that flat padded applause
                    marked the swish of cloths on clothes-line as Jimmy and Kathleen drew the
                    curtains.
                “What's up?” they asked as they drew.
                “You've done it this time!” said Gerald to the pink, perspiring Mabel. “Oh,
                    bother these strings!”
                “Can't you burst them? I've done it?” retorted Mabel. “I like
                    that!”
                “More than I do,” said Gerald.
                “Oh, it's all right,” said Mabel, “Come on. “We
                    must go and pull the things to pieces—then they can't go on being
                    alive.”
                “It's your fault, anyhow,” said Gerald with every possible absence of gallantry.
                    “Don't you see? It's turned into a wishing ring. I knew something
                    different was going to happen. Get my knife out of my pocket—this string's in a
                    knot. Jimmy, Cathy, those Ugly-Wuglies have come alive—because Mabel wished it.
                    Cut out and pull them to pieces.”
                Jimmy and Cathy peeped through the curtain and recoiled with white faces and
                    staring eyes. “Not me!” was the brief rejoinder of Jimmy. Cathy said, “Not
                    much!” And she meant it, any one could see that.
                And now, as Gerald, almost free of the hearthrugs, broke his thumb-nail on the
                    stiffest blade of his knife, a thick rustling and a sharp, heavy stumping
                    sounded beyond the curtain.
                “They're going out!” screamed Kathleen—“walking out—on their
                    umbrella and broomstick legs. You can't stop them, Jerry, they're too
                    awful!”
                “Everybody in the town'll be insane by to-morrow night if we don't
                    stop them,” cried Gerald. “Here, give me the ring—I'll unwish them.”
                He caught the ring from the unresisting Mabel, cried, “I wish the Uglies
                        weren't alive,” and tore through the door. He saw, in fancy,
                    Mabel's wish undone, and the empty hall strewed with limp bolsters, hats,
                    umbrellas, coats and gloves, prone abject properties from
                     which the brief life had gone out for ever.
                    But the hall was crowded with live things, strange things—all horribly short as
                    broomsticks and umbrellas are short. A limp hand gesticulated. A pointed white
                    face with red cheeks looked up at him, and wide red lips said something, he
                    could not tell what. The voice reminded him of the old beggar down by the bridge
                    who had no roof to his mouth. These creatures had no roofs to their mouths, of
                    course—they had no——
                “Aa oo ré o me me oo a oo ho el?” said the voice again. And it had said it four
                    times before Gerald could collect himself sufficiently to understand that this
                    horror—alive, and most likely quite uncontrollable—was saying, with a dreadful
                    calm, polite persistence:—
                “Can you recommend me to a good hotel?”
            
            
                
                CHAPTER VII
                “CAN you recommend me to a good hotel?” The speaker had no inside to his
                    head. Gerald had the best of reasons for knowing it. The speaker's coat had no
                    shoulders inside it—only the cross-bar that a jacket is slung on by careful
                    ladies. The hand raised in interrogation was not a hand at all; it was a glove
                    lumpily stuffed with pocket-handkerchiefs; and the arm attached to it was only
                    Kathleen's school umbrella. Yet the whole thing was alive, and was asking a
                    definite, and for anybody else, anybody who really was a body, a reasonable
                    question.
                With a sensation of inward sinking, Gerald realised that now or never was the
                    time for him to rise to the occasion. And at the thought he inwardly sank more
                    deeply than before. It seemed impossible to rise in the very smallest
                    degree.
                “I beg your pardon” was absolutely the best he could do; and the painted, pointed
                    paper face turned to him once more, and once more said:—
                “Aa oo ré o me me oo a oo ho el?”
                
                “You want a hotel?” Gerald repeated stupidly, “a good hotel?”
                “A oo ho el,” reiterated the painted lips.
                “I'm awfully sorry,” Gerald went on—one can always be polite, of course, whatever
                    happens, and politeness came natural to him—“but all our hotels shut so
                    early—about eight, I think.”
                “Och em er,” said the Ugly-Wugly. Gerald even now does not understand how that
                    practical joke—hastily wrought of hat, overcoat, paper face and limp hands—could
                    have managed, by just being alive, to become perfectly respectable, apparently
                    about fifty years old, and obviously well off, known and respected in his own
                    suburb—the kind of man who travels first class and smokes expensive cigars.
                    Gerald knew this time, without need of repetition, that the Ugly-Wugly had
                    said:—
                “Knock 'em up.”
                “You can't,” Gerald explained; “they're all stone deaf—every single person who
                    keeps a hotel in this town. It's—” he wildly plunged—“it's a County Council law.
                    Only deaf people allowed to keep hotels. It's because of the hops in the beer,”
                    he found himself adding; “you know, hops are so good for earache.”
                “I o wy ollo oo,” said the respectable Ugly-Wugly; and Gerald was not surprised
                    to find that the thing did “not quite follow him.”
                “It is a little difficult at first,” he said. The other Ugly-Wuglies were
                    crowding round. The lady in the poke bonnet said—Gerald found he was getting quite clever at understanding the
                    conversation of those who had no roofs to their mouths:—
                “If not a hotel, a lodging.”
                “My lodging is on the cold ground,” sang itself unbidden and unavailing in
                    Gerald's ear. Yet stay—was it unavailing?
                “I do know a lodging,” he said slowly, “but——” The tallest of the Ugly-Wuglies
                    pushed forward. He was dressed in the old brown overcoat and top-hat which
                    always hung on the school hat-stand to discourage possible burglars by deluding
                    them into the idea that there was a gentleman-of-the-house, and that he was at
                    home. He had an air at once more sporting and less reserved than that of the
                    first speaker, and any one could see that he was not quite a gentleman.
                “Wa I wo oo oh,” he began, but the lady Ugly-Wugly in the flower-wreathed hat
                    interrupted him. She spoke more distinctly than the others, owing, as Gerald
                    found afterwards, to the fact that her mouth had been drawn open,
                    and the flap cut from the aperture had been folded back—so that she really had
                    something like a roof to her mouth, though it was only a paper one.
                “What I want to know,” Gerald understood her to say, “is where are
                    the carriages we ordered?”
                “I don't know,” said Gerald, “but I'll find out. But we ought to be moving,” he
                    added; “you see, the performance is over, and they want to shut up the house and put the lights out.
                    Let's be moving.”
                “Eh—ech e oo-ig,” repeated the respectable Ugly-Wugly, and stepped towards the
                    front door.
                “Oo um oo,” said the flower-wreathed one; and Gerald assures me that her
                    vermilion lips stretched in a smile.
                “I shall be delighted,” said Gerald with earnest courtesy, “to do anything, of
                    course. Things do happen so awkwardly when you least expect it. I could go with
                    you, and get you a lodging, if you'd only wait a few moments in the—in the yard.
                    It's quite a superior sort of yard,” he went on, as a wave of surprised disdain
                    passed over their white paper faces—“not a common yard, you know; the pump,” he
                    added madly, “has just been painted green all over, and the dustbin is enamelled
                    iron.”
                The Ugly-Wuglies turned to each other in consultation, and Gerald gathered that
                    the greenness of the pump and the enamelled character of the dust-bin made, in
                    their opinion, all the difference.
                “I'm awfully sorry,” he urged eagerly, “to have to ask you to wait, but you see
                    I've got an uncle who's quite mad, and I have to give him his gruel at half-past
                    nine. He won't feed out of any hand but mine.” Gerald did not mind what he said.
                    The only people one is allowed to tell lies to are the Ugly-Wuglies; they are
                    all clothes and have no insides, because they are not human beings, but only a
                    sort of very real visions, and therefore
                    cannot be really deceived, though they may seem to be.
                Through the back door that has the blue, yellow, red and green glass in it, down
                    the iron steps into the yard, Gerald led the way, and the Ugly-Wuglies trooped
                    after him. Some of them had boots, but the ones whose feet were only broomsticks
                    or umbrellas found the open-work iron stairs very awkward.
                “If you wouldn't mind,” said Gerald, “just waiting
                        under the balcony? My uncle is so very mad. If he
                    were to see—see any strangers—I mean, even aristocratic ones-I couldn't answer
                    for the consequences.”
                “Perhaps,” said the flower-hatted lady nervously, “it would be better for us to
                    try and find a lodging ourselves?”
                “I wouldn't advise you to,” said Gerald as grimly as he knew how; “the police
                    here arrest all strangers. It's the new law the Liberals have just
                    made,” he added convincingly, “and you'd get the sort of lodging you wouldn't
                    care for—I couldn't bear to think of you in a prison dungeon,” he added
                    tenderly.
                “I ah wi oo er papers,” said the respectable Ugly-Wugly, and added something that
                    sounded like “disgraceful state of things.”
                However, they ranged themselves under the iron balcony. Gerald gave one last look
                    at them and wondered, in his secret heart, why he was not frightened, though in
                    his outside mind he was congratulating himself on his bravery. For the things
                    did look rather horrid. In that light it was
                    hard to believe that they were really only clothes and pillows and sticks—with
                    no insides. As he went up the steps he heard them talking among themselves—in
                    that strange language of theirs, all oo's and ah's; and he thought he
                    distinguished the voice of the respectable Ugly-Wugly saying, “Most gentlemanly
                    lad,” and the wreathed-hatted lady answering warmly: “Yes, indeed.”
                The coloured-glass door closed behind him. Behind him was the yard, peopled by
                    seven impossible creatures. Before him lay the silent house, peopled, as he knew
                    very well, by five human beings as frightened as human beings could be. You
                    think, perhaps, that Ugly-Wuglies are nothing to be frightened of. That's only
                    because you have never seen one come alive. You just make one—any old suit of
                    your father's, and a hat that he isn't wearing, a bolster or two, a painted
                    paper face, a few sticks and a pair of boots will do the trick; get your father
                    to lend you a wishing ring, give it back to him when it has done its work, and
                    see how you feel then.
                Of course the reason why Gerald was not afraid was that he had the ring; and, as
                    you have seen, the wearer of that is not frightened by anything
                    unless he touches that thing. But Gerald knew well enough how the others must be
                    feeling. That was why he stopped for a moment in the hall to try and imagine
                    what would have been most soothing to him if he had been as terrified as he knew
                    they were.
                
                “Cathy! I say! What ho, Jimmy! Mabel ahoy!” he cried in a loud, cheerful voice
                    that sounded very unreal to himself.
                The dining-room door opened a cautious inch.
                “I say—such larks!” Gerald went on, shoving gently at the door with his shoulder.
                    “Look out! what are you keeping the door shut for?”
                “Are you—alone?” asked Kathleen in hushed, breathless tones.
                “Yes, of course. Don't be a duffer!”
                The door opened, revealing three scared faces and the disarranged chairs where
                    that odd audience had sat.
                “Where are they? Have you unwished them? We heard them talking. Horrible!”
                “They're in the yard,” said Gerald with the best imitation of joyous excitement
                    that he could manage. “It is such fun! They're just like real
                    people, quite kind and jolly. It's the most ripping lark. Don't let on to
                    Mademoiselle and Eliza. I'll square them. Then Kathleen and Jimmy
                    must go to bed, and I'll see Mabel home, and as soon as we get outside I must
                    find some sort of lodging for the Ugly-Wuglies—they are such fun
                    though. I do wish you could all go with me.”
                “Fun?” echoed Kathleen dismally and doubting.
                “Perfectly killing,” Gerald asserted resolutely. “Now, you just listen to what I
                    say to Mademoiselle and Eliza, and back me up for all you're worth.”
                
                “But,” said Mabel, “you can't mean that you're going to leave me alone directly
                    we get out, and go off with those horrible creatures. They look like
                    fiends.”
                “You wait till you've seen them close,” Gerald advised. “Why, they're just
                        ordinary—the first thing one of them did was to ask me to
                    recommend it to a good hotel! I couldn't understand it at first, because it has
                    no roof to its mouth, of course.”
                It was a mistake to say that, Gerald knew it at once.
                Mabel and Kathleen were holding hands in a way that plainly showed how a few
                    moments ago they had been clinging to each other in an agony of terror. Now they
                    clung again. And Jimmy, who was sitting on the edge of what had been the stage,
                    kicking his boots against the pink counterpane, shuddered visibly.
                “It doesn't matter,” Gerald explained—“about the roofs, I mean; you
                    soon get to understand. I heard them say I was a gentlemanly lad as I was coming
                    away. They wouldn't have cared to notice a little thing like that if they'd been
                    fiends, you know.”
                “It doesn't matter how gentlemanly they think you; if you don't see me home you
                        aren't, that's all. Are you going to?” Mabel demanded.
                “Of course I am. We shall have no end of a lark. Now for Mademoiselle.”
                He had put on his coat as he spoke and now ran up the stairs. The others, herding
                    in the hall, could hear his light-hearted
                    there's-nothing-unusual-the-matter-whatever-did-you-bolt-like-that-for knock at
                    Mademoiselle's door, the reassuring “It's only me—Gerald, you know,” the pause,
                    the opening of the door, and the low-voiced parley that followed; then
                    Mademoiselle and Gerald at Eliza's door, voices of reassurance; Eliza's terror,
                    bluntly voluble, tactfully soothed.
                “Wonder what lies he's telling them,” Jimmy grumbled.
                “Oh! not lies,” said Mabel; “he's only telling them as much of the
                    truth as it's good for them to know.”
                “If you'd been a man,” said Jimmy witheringly, “you'd have been a beastly Jesuit,
                    and hid up chimneys.”
                “If I were only just a boy,” Mabel retorted, “I shouldn't be scared out of my
                    life by a pack of old coats.”
                “I'm so sorry you were frightened,” Gerald's honeyed tones floated
                    down the staircase; “we didn't think about you being frightened. And it
                        was a good trick, wasn't it?”
                “There!” whispered Jimmy, “he's been telling her it was a trick of ours.”
                “Well, so it was,” said Mabel stoutly.
                “It was indeed a wonderful trick,” said Mademoiselle; “and how did you move the
                    mannikins?”
                “Oh, we've often done it—with strings, you know,” Gerald explained.
                “That's true, too,” Kathleen whispered.
                “Let us see you do once again this trick so
                     remarkable,” said Mademoiselle, arriving at
                    the bottom-stair mat.
                “Oh, I've cleared them all out,” said Gerald. (“So he has,” from Kathleen aside
                    to Jimmy.) “We were so sorry you were startled; we thought you wouldn't like to
                    see them again.”
                “Then,” said Mademoiselle brightly, as she peeped into the untidy dining-room and
                    saw that the figures had indeed vanished, “if we supped and discoursed of your
                    beautiful piece of theatre?”
                Gerald explained fully how much his brother and sister would enjoy this. As for
                    him—Mademoiselle would see that it was his duty to escort Mabel home, and kind
                    as it was of Mademoiselle to ask her to stay the night, it could not be, on
                    account of the frenzied and anxious affection of Mabel's aunt. And it was
                    useless to suggest that Eliza should see Mabel home, because Eliza was nervous
                    at night unless accompanied by her gentleman friend.
                So Mabel was hatted with her own hat and cloaked with a cloak that was not hers;
                    and she and Gerald went out by the front door, amid kind last words and
                    appointments for the morrow.
                The moment that front door was shut Gerald caught Mabel by the arm and led her
                    briskly to the corner of the side street which led to the yard. Just round the
                    corner he stopped.
                “Now,” he said, “what I want to know is—are you an idiot or aren't you?”
                
                “Idiot yourself!” said Mabel, but mechanically, for she saw that he was in
                    earnest.
                “Because I'm not frightened of the Ugly-Wuglies. They're as harmless
                    as tame rabbits. But an idiot might be frightened, and give the whole show away.
                    If you're an idiot, say so, and I'll go back and tell them you're afraid to walk
                    home, and that I'll go and let your aunt know you're stopping.”
                “I'm not an idiot,” said Mabel; “and,” she added, glaring round her with the wild
                    gaze of the truly terror-stricken, “I'm not afraid of
                    anything.”
                “I'm going to let you share my difficulties and dangers,” said Gerald; “at least,
                    I'm inclined to let you. I wouldn't do as much for my own brother, I can tell
                    you. And if you queer my pitch I'll never speak to you again or let the others
                    either.”
                “You're a beast, that's what you are! I don't need to be threatened to make me
                    brave. I am.”
                “Mabel,” said Gerald, in low, thrilling tones, for he saw that the time had come
                    to sound another note, “I know you're brave. I believe
                    in you. That's why I've arranged it like this. I'm certain you've got the heart
                    of a lion under that black-and-white exterior. Can I trust you? To the
                    death?”
                Mabel felt that to say anything but “Yes” was to throw away a priceless
                    reputation for courage. So “Yes” was what she said.
                “Then wait here. You're close to the lamp. And when you see me coming with
                        them remember they're as
                    harmless as serpents—I mean doves. Talk to them just like you would to any one
                    else. See?”
                He turned to leave her, but stopped at her natural question:
                “What hotel did you say you were going to take them to?”
                “Oh, Jimminy!” the harassed Gerald caught at his hair with both hands. “There!
                    you see, Mabel, you're a help already”; he had, even at that moment, some tact
                    left. “I clean forgot! I meant to ask you—isn't there any lodge or anything in
                    the Castle grounds where I could put them for the night? The charm will break,
                    you know, some time, like being invisible did, and they'll just be a pack of
                    coats and things that we can easily carry home any day. Is there a lodge or
                    anything?”
                “There's a secret passage,” Mabel began—but at that moment the yard-door opened
                    and an Ugly-Wugly put out its head and looked anxiously down the street.
                “Righto!”—Gerald ran to meet it. It was all Mabel could do not to run in an
                    opposite direction with an opposite motive. It was all she could do, but she did
                    it, and was proud of herself as long as ever she remembered that night.
                And now, with all the silent precaution necessitated by the near presence of an
                    extremely insane uncle, the Ugly-Wuglies, a grisly band, trooped out of the yard
                    door.
                “Walk on your toes, dear,” the bonneted Ugly-Wugly whispered to the one with a wreath; and even at that
                    thrilling crisis Gerald wondered how she could, since the toes of one foot were
                    but the end of a golf club and of the other the end of a hockey-stick.
                Mabel felt that there was no shame in retreating to the lamp-post at the street
                    corner, but, once there, she made herself halt—and no one but Mabel will ever
                    know how much making that took. Think of it—to stand there, firm and quiet, and
                    wait for those hollow, unbelievable things to come up to her, clattering on the
                    pavement with their stumpy feet or borne along noiselessly, as in the case of
                    the flower-hatted lady, by a skirt that touched the ground, and had, Mabel knew
                    very well, nothing at all inside it.
                She stood very still; the insides of her hands grew cold and damp, but still she
                    stood, saying over and over again: “They're not true—they can't be true. It's
                    only a dream—they aren't really true. They can't be.” And then Gerald was there,
                    and all the Ugly-Wuglies crowding round, and Gerald saying:—
                “This is one of our friends, Mabel—the Princess in the play, you know. Be a man!”
                    he added in a whisper for her ear alone.
                Mabel, all her nerves stretched tight as banjo strings, had an awful instant of
                    not knowing whether she would be able to be a man or whether she would be merely
                    a shrieking and running little mad girl. For the respectable Ugly-Wugly shook
                    her limply by the hand (“He can't be true,” she told herself), and
                    the rose-wreathed one took her arm with a
                    soft-padded glove at the end of an umbrella arm, and said:—
                “You dear, clever little thing! Do walk with me!” in a gushing,
                    girlish way, and in speech almost wholly lacking in consonants.
                Then they all walked up the High Street as if, as Gerald said, they were anybody
                    else.
                It was a strange procession, but Liddlesby goes early to bed, and the Liddlesby
                    police, in common with those of most other places, wear boots that one can hear
                    a mile off. If such boots had been heard, Gerald would have had time to turn
                    back and head them off. He felt now that he could not resist a flush of pride in
                    Mabel's courage as he heard her polite rejoinders to the still more polite
                    remarks of the amiable Ugly-Wuglies. He did not know how near she was to the
                    scream that would throw away the whole thing and bring the police and the
                    residents out to the ruin of everybody.
                They met no one, except one man, who murmured, “Guy Fawkes, swelp me!” and
                    crossed the road hurriedly: and when, next day, he told what he had seen, his
                    wife disbelieved him, and also said it was a judgment on him, which was
                    unreasonable.
                Mabel felt as though she were taking part in a very completely arranged
                    nightmare, but Gerald was in it too, Gerald, who had asked if she was an idiot.
                    Well, she wasn't. But she soon would be, she felt. Yet she went on answering the
                    courteous vowel-talk of these impossible people. She had often heard her
                     aunt speak of impossible people. Well, now
                    she knew what they were like.
                Summer twilight had melted into summer moonlight. The shadows of the Ugly-Wuglies
                    on the white road were much more horrible than their more solid selves. Mabel
                    wished it had been a dark night, and then corrected the wish with a hasty
                    shudder.
                Gerald, submitting to a searching interrogatory from the tall-hatted Ugly-Wugly
                    as to his schools, his sports, pastimes, and ambitions, wondered how long the
                    spell would last. The ring seemed to work in sevens. Would these things have
                    seven hours' life—or fourteen—or twenty-one? His mind lost itself in the
                    intricacies of the seven-times table (a teaser at the best of times) and only
                    found itself with a shock when the procession found itself at the
                    gates of the Castle grounds.
                Locked—of course.
                “You see,” he explained, as the Ugly-Wuglies vainly shook the iron gates with
                    incredible hands; “it's so very late. There is another way. But you
                    have to climb through a hole.”
                “The ladies,” the respectable Ugly-Wugly began objecting; but the ladies with one
                    voice affirmed that they loved adventures. “So frightfully thrilling,” added the
                    one who wore roses.
                So they went round by the road, and coming to the hole—it was a little difficult
                    to find in the moonlight, which always disguises the most familiar things—Gerald
                    went first with the bicycle lantern which he
                    had snatched as his pilgrims came out of the yard; the shrinking Mabel followed,
                    and then the Ugly-Wuglies, with hollow rattlings of their wooden limbs against
                    the stone, crept through, and with strange vowel-sounds of general amazement,
                    manly courage, and feminine nervousness, followed the light along the passage
                    through the fern-hung cutting and under the arch.
                When they emerged on the moonlit enchantment of the Italian garden a quite
                    intelligible “Oh!” of surprised admiration broke from more than one painted
                    paper lip; and the respectable Ugly-Wugly was understood to say that it must be
                    quite a show-place—by George, sir! yes.
                Those marble terraces and artfully serpentining gravel walks surely never had
                    echoed to steps so strange. No shadows so wildly unbelievable had, for all its
                    enchantments, ever fallen on those smooth, gray, dewy lawns. Gerald was thinking
                    this, or something like it (what he really thought was, “I bet there never was
                    such a go as this, even here!”), when he saw the statue of Hermes leap from its
                    pedestal and run towards him and his company with all the lively curiosity of a
                    street boy eager to be in at a street fight. He saw, too, that he was the only
                    one who perceived that white, advancing presence. And he knew that it was the
                    ring that let him see what by others could not be seen. He slipped it front his
                    finger. Yes; Hermes was on his pedestal, still as the snow man you make in the Christmas holidays. He put
                    the ring on again, and there was Hermes, circling round the group and gazing
                    deep in each unconscious Ugly-Wugly face.
                “This seems a very superior hotel,” the tall-hatted Ugly-Wugly was saying; “the
                    grounds are laid out with what you might call taste.”
                “We should have to go in by the back door,” said Mabel suddenly. “The front
                    door's locked at half-past nine.”
                A short, stout Ugly-Wugly in a yellow and blue cricket cap, who had hardly
                    spoken, muttered something about an escapade, and about feeling quite young
                    again.
                And now they had skirted the marble-edged pool where the gold fish swam and
                    glimmered, and where the great prehistoric beast had come down to bathe and
                    drink. The water flashed white diamonds in the moonlight, and Gerald alone of
                    them all saw that the scaly-plated vast lizard was even now rolling and
                    wallowing there among the lily pads.
                They hastened up the steps of the Temple of Flora. The back of it, where no
                    elegant arch opened to the air, was against one of those sheer hills, almost
                    cliffs, that diversified the landscape of that garden. Mabel passed behind the
                    statue of the goddess, fumbled a little, and then Gerald's lantern, flashing
                    like a searchlight, showed a very high and very narrow doorway: the stone that
                    was the door, and that had closed it, revolved slowly under the touch of Mabel's
                    fingers.
                
                “This way,” she said, and panted a little. The back of her neck felt cold and
                    goose-fleshy.
                “You lead the way, my lad, with the lantern,” said the suburban Ugly-Wugly in his
                    bluff, agreeable way.
                “I—I must stay behind to close the door,” said Gerald.
                “The Princess can do that. We'll help her,” said the wreathed one
                    with effusion; and Gerald thought her horribly officious.
                He insisted gently that he would be the one responsible for the safe shutting of
                    that door.
                “You wouldn't like me to get into trouble, I'm sure,” he urged; and the
                    Ugly-Wuglies, for the last time kind and reasonable, agreed that this, of all
                    things, they would most deplore.
                “You take it,” Gerald urged, pressing the bicycle lamp on the
                    elderly Ugly-Wugly; “you're the natural leader. Go straight ahead. Are there any
                    steps?” he asked Mabel in a whisper.
                “Not for ever so long,” she whispered back. “It goes on for ages, and then twists
                    round.”
                “Whispering,” said the smallest Ugly-Wugly suddenly, “ain't manners.”
                “He hasn't any, anyhow,” whispered the lady Ugly-Wugly; “don't mind
                    him—quite a self-made man,” and squeezed Mabel's arm with horrible confidential
                    flabbiness.
                The respectable Ugly-Wugly leading with the lamp, the others following
                    trustfully, one and all disappeared into that narrow doorway; and Gerald and
                    Mabel standing without, hardly daring to
                    breathe lest a breath should retard the procession, almost sobbed with relief.
                    Prematurely, as it turned out. For suddenly there was a rush and a scuffle
                    inside the passage, and as they strove to close the door the Ugly-Wuglies
                    fiercely pressed to open it again. Whether they saw something in the dark
                    passage that alarmed them, whether they took it into their empty heads that this
                    could not be the back way to any really respectable hotel, or whether a
                    convincing sudden instinct warned them that they were being tricked, Mabel and
                    Gerald never knew. But they knew that the Ugly-Wuglies were no longer friendly
                    and commonplace, that a fierce change had come over them. Cries of “No, No!” “We
                    won't go on!” “Make him lead!” broke the dreamy stillness of the
                    perfect night. There were screams from ladies' voices, the hoarse, determined
                    shouts of strong Ugly-Wuglies roused to resistance, and, worse than all, the
                    steady pushing open of that narrow stone door that had almost closed upon the
                    ghastly crew. Through the chink of it they could be seen, a writhing black crowd
                    against the light of the bicycle lamp; a padded hand reached round the door;
                    stick-boned arms stretched out angrily towards the world that that door, if it
                    closed, would shut them off from for ever. And the tone of their consonantless
                    speech was no longer conciliatory and ordinary; it was threatening, full of the
                    menace of unbearable horrors.
                The padded hand fell on Gerald's arm, and
                    instantly all the terrors that he had, so far, only known in imagination became
                    real to him, and he saw, in the sort of flash that shows drowning people their
                    past lives, what it was that he had asked of Mabel, and that she had given.
                “Push, push for your life!” he cried, and setting his heel against the pedestal
                    of Flora, pushed manfully.
                “I can't any more—oh, I can't!” moaned Mabel, and tried to use her heel likewise,
                    but her legs were too short.
                “They mustn't get out, they mustn't!” Gerald panted.
                “You'll know it when we do,” came from inside the door in tones which fury and
                    mouth-rooflessness would have made unintelligible to any ears but those
                    sharpened by the wild fear of that unspeakable moment.
                “What's up, there?” cried suddenly a new voice—a voice with all its consonants
                    comforting, clean-cut, and ringing, and abruptly a new shadow fell on the marble
                    floor of Flora's temple.
                “Come and help push!” Gerald's voice only just reached the newcomer. “If they get
                    out they'll kill us all.”
                A strong, velveteen-covered shoulder pushed suddenly between the shoulders of
                    Gerald and Mabel; a stout man's heel sought the aid of the goddess's pedestal;
                    the heavy, narrow door yielded slowly, it closed, its spring clicked, and the
                    furious, surging, threatening mass of Ugly-Wuglies was shut in, and Gerald and
                        Mabel— oh, incredible relief!—were shut
                    out. Mabel threw herself on the marble floor, sobbing slow, heavy sobs of
                    achievement and exhaustion. If I had been there I should have looked the other
                    way, so as not to see whether Gerald yielded himself to the same
                    abandonment.
                The newcomer—he appeared to be a gamekeeper, Gerald decided later—looked down
                    on—well, certainly on Mabel, and said:
                “Come on, don't be a little duffer.” (He may have said, “a couple of little
                    duffers.”) “Who is it, and what's it all about?”
                “I can't possibly tell you,” Gerald panted.
                “We shall have to see about that, shan't we,” said the newcomer amiably. “Come
                    out into the moonlight and let's review the situation.”
                Gerald, even in that topsy-turvy state of his world, found time to think that a
                    gamekeeper who used such words as that had most likely a romantic past. But at
                    the same time he saw that such a man would be far less easy to “square” with an
                    unconvincing tale than Eliza, or Johnson, or even Mademoiselle. In fact, he
                    seemed, with the only tale that they had to tell, practically unsquarable.
                Gerald got up—if he was not up already, or still up—and pulled at the limp and
                    now hot hand of the sobbing Mabel; and as he did so the unsquarable one took
                        his hand, and thus led both children out from under the shadow
                    of Flora's dome into the bright white moonlight that carpeted Flora's steps.
                    Here he sat down, a child on each side of him, drew a hand of each through his velveteen arm, pressed them to his
                    velveteen sides in a friendly, reassuring way, and said: “Now then! Go
                    ahead!”
                Mabel merely sobbed. We must excuse her. She had been very brave, and I have no
                    doubt that all heroines, from Joan of Arc to Grace Darling, have had their
                    sobbing moments.
                But Gerald said: “It's no use. If I made up a story you'd see through it.”
                “That's a compliment to my discernment, anyhow,” said the stranger. “What price
                    telling me the truth?”
                “If we told you the truth,” said Gerald, “you wouldn't believe it.”
                “Try me,” said the velveteen one. He was clean-shaven, and had large eyes that
                    sparkled when the moonlight touched them.
                “I can't,” said Gerald, and it was plain that he spoke the truth.
                    “You'd either think we were mad, and get us shut up, or else—oh, it's no good.
                    Thank you for helping us, and do let us go home.”
                “I wonder,” said the stranger musingly, “whether you have any imagination.”
                “Considering that we invented them,” Gerald hotly began, and stopped with late
                    prudence.
                “If by ‘them’ you mean the people whom I helped you to imprison in yonder tomb,”
                    said the stranger, loosing Mabel's hand to put his arm round her, “remember that
                    I saw and heard them. And with all respect to your imagination, I doubt whether
                    any invention of yours would be quite so convincing.”
                
                Gerald put his elbows on his knees and his chin in his hands.
                “Collect yourself,” said the one in velveteen; “and while you are collecting, let
                    me just put the thing from my point of view. I think you hardly realise my
                    position. I come down from London to take care of a big estate.”
                “I thought you were a gamekeeper,” put in Gerald.
                Mabel put her head on the stranger's shoulder. “Hero in disguise, then,
                        I know,” she sniffed.
                “Not at all,” said he; “bailiff would be nearer the mark. On the very first
                    evening I go out to take the moonlit air, and approaching a white building, hear
                    sounds of an agitated scuffle, accompanied by frenzied appeals for assistance.
                    Carried away by the enthusiasm of the moment, I do assist and shut
                    up goodness knows who behind a stone door. Now, is it unreasonable that I should
                    ask who it is that I've shut up—helped to shut up, I mean, and who it is that
                    I've assisted?”
                “It's reasonable enough,” Gerald admitted.
                “Well then,” said the stranger.
                “Well then,” said Gerald, “the fact is—— No,” he added after a pause, “the fact
                    is, I simply can't tell you.”
                “Then I must ask the other side,” said Velveteens. “Let me go—I'll undo that door
                    and find out for myself.”
                “Tell him,” said Mabel, speaking for the first time. “Never mind if he believes
                    or not. We can't have them let out.”
                
                “Very well,” said Gerald, “I'll tell him. Now look here, Mr. Bailiff, will you
                    promise us on an English gentleman's word of honour—because, of course, I can
                    see you're that, bailiff or not—will you promise that you won't
                    tell any one what we tell you and that you won't have us put in a lunatic
                    asylum, however mad we sound?”
                “Yes,” said the stranger, “I think I can promise that. But if you've been having
                    a sham fight or anything and shoved the other side into that hole, don't you
                    think you'd better let them out? They'll be most awfully frightened, you know.
                    After all, I suppose they are only children.”
                “Wait till you hear,” Gerald answered. “They're not children—not much! Shall I
                    just tell about them or begin at the beginning?”
                “The beginning, of course,” said the stranger.
                Mabel lifted her head from his velveteen shoulder and said, “Let me begin, then.
                    I found a ring, and I said it would make me invisible. I said it in play. And it
                        did. I was invisible twenty-one hours. Never mind where I got
                    the ring. Now, Gerald, you go on.”
                Gerald went on; for quite a long time he went on, for the story was a splendid
                    one to tell.
                “And so,” he ended, “we got them in there; and when seven hours are over, or
                    fourteen, or twenty-one, or something with a seven in it, they'll just be old
                    coats again. They came alive at half-past nine. I think they'll stop being it in seven hours—that's half-past four.
                        Now will you let us go home?”
                “I'll see you home,” said the stranger in a quite new tone of exasperating
                    gentleness. “Come—let's be going.”
                “You don't believe us,” said Gerald. “Of course you don't. Nobody could. But I
                    could make you believe if I chose.”
                All three stood up, and the stranger stared in Gerald's eyes till Gerald answered
                    his thought.
                “No, I don't look mad, do I?”
                “No, you aren't. But, come, you're an extraordinarily sensible boy; don't you
                    think you may be sickening for a fever or something?”
                “And Cathy and Jimmy and Mademoiselle and Eliza, and the man who said ‘Guy
                    Fawkes, swelp me!’ and you, you saw them move—you heard them call
                    out. Are you sickening for anything?”
                “No—or at least not for anything but information. Come, and I'll see you
                    home.”
                “Mabel lives at the Towers,” said Gerald, as the stranger turned into the broad
                    drive that leads to the big gate.
                “No relation to Lord Yalding,” said Mabel hastily—“housekeeper's niece.” She was
                    holding on to his hand all the way. At the servants' entrance she put up her
                    face to be kissed, and went in.
                “Poor little thing!” said the bailiff, as they went down the drive towards the
                    gate.
                He went with Gerald to the door of the school.
                
                “Look here,” said Gerald at parting. “I know what you're going to do. You're
                    going to try to undo that door.”
                “Discerning!” said the stranger.
                “Well—don't. Or, any way, wait till daylight and let us be there. We can get
                    there by ten.”
                “All right—I'll meet you there by ten,” answered the stranger. “By George! you're
                    the rummest kids I ever met.”
                “We are rum,” Gerald owned, “but so would you be if—— Good night.”
                
                As the four children went over the smooth lawn towards Flora's Temple they
                    talked, as they had talked all the morning, about the adventures of last night
                    and of Mabel's bravery. It was not ten, but half-past twelve; for Eliza, backed
                    by Mademoiselle, had insisted on their “clearing up,” and clearing up very
                    thoroughly, the “litter” of last night.
                “You're a Victoria Cross heroine, dear,” said Cathy warmly. “You ought to have a
                    statue put up to you.”
                “It would come alive if you put it here,” said Gerald grimly.
                “I shouldn't have been afraid,” said Jimmy.
                “By daylight,” Gerald assured him, “everything looks so jolly different.”
                “I do hope he'll be there,” Mabel said; “he was such a dear, Cathy—a
                    perfect bailiff, with the soul of a gentleman.”
                “He isn't there, though,” said Jimmy. “I
                     believe you just dreamed him, like you did
                    the statues coming alive.”
                They went up the marble steps in the sunshine, and it was difficult to believe
                    that this was the place where only in last night's moonlight fear had laid such
                    cold hands on the hearts of Mabel and Gerald.
                “Shall we open the door,” suggested Kathleen, “and begin to carry home the
                    coats?”
                “Let's listen first,” said Gerald; “perhaps they aren't only coats yet.”
                They laid ears to the hinges of the stone door, behind which last night the
                    Ugly-Wuglies had shrieked and threatened. All was still as the sweet morning
                    itself. It was as they turned away that they saw the man they had come to meet.
                    He was on the other side of Flora's pedestal. But he was not standing up. He lay
                    there, quite still, on his back, his arms flung wide.
                “Oh, look!” cried Cathy, and pointed. His face was a queer greenish colour, and
                    on his forehead there was a cut; its edges were blue, and a little blood had
                    trickled from it on to the white of the marble.
                At the same time Mabel pointed too—but she did not cry out as Cathy had done. And
                    what she pointed at was a big glossy-leaved rhododendron bush, from which a
                    painted pointed paper face peered out—very white, very red, in the sunlight—and,
                    as the children gazed, shrank back into the cover of the shining leaves.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER VIII
                IT was but too plain. The unfortunate bailiff must have opened the door
                    before the spell had faded, while yet the Ugly-Wuglies were something more than
                    mere coats and hats and sticks. They had rushed out upon him, and had done this.
                    He lay there insensible—was it a golf-club or a hockey-stick that had made that
                    horrible cut on his forehead? Gerald wondered. The girls had rushed to the
                    sufferer; already his head was in Mabel's lap. Kathleen had tried to get it on
                    to hers, but Mabel was too quick for her.
                Jimmy and Gerald both knew what was the first thing needed by the unconscious,
                    even before Mabel impatiently said: “Water! water!”
                “What in?” Jimmy asked, looking doubtfully at his hands, and then down the green
                    slope to the marble-bordered pool where the waterlilies were.
                “Your hat—anything,” said Mabel.
                The two boys turned away.
                “Suppose they come after us,” said Jimmy.
                
                “What come after us?” Gerald snapped rather than asked.
                “The Ugly-Wuglies,” Jimmy whispered.
                “Who's afraid?” Gerald inquired.
                But he looked to right and left very carefully, and chose the way that did not
                    lead near the bushes. He scooped water up in his straw hat and returned to
                    Flora's Temple, carrying it carefully in both hands. When he saw how quickly it
                    ran through the straw he pulled his handkerchief from his breast pocket with his
                    teeth and dropped it into the hat. It was with this that the girls wiped the
                    blood from the bailiff's brow.
                “We ought to have smelling salts,” said Kathleen, half in tears. “I know we
                    ought.”
                “They would be good,” Mabel owned.
                “Hasn't your aunt any?”
                “Yes, but——”
                “Don't be a coward,” said Gerald; “think of last night. They
                    wouldn't hurt you. He must have insulted them or something. Look here, you run.
                    We'll see that nothing runs after you.”
                There was no choice but to relinquish the head of the interesting invalid to
                    Kathleen; so Mabel did it, cast one glaring glance round the rhododendron
                    bordered slope, and fled towards the castle.
                The other three bent over the still unconscious bailiff.
                “He's not dead, is he?” asked Jimmy anxiously.
                “No,” Kathleen reassured him, “his heart's
                    beating. Mabel and I felt it in his wrist, where doctors do. How frightfully
                    good-looking he is!”
                “Not so dusty,” Gerald admitted.
                “I never know what you mean by good-looking,” said Jimmy, and suddenly a shadow
                    fell on the marble beside them and a fourth voice spoke—not Mabel's; her
                    hurrying figure, though still in sight, was far away.
                “Quite a personable young man,” it said.
                The children looked up-into the face of the eldest of the Ugly-Wuglies, the
                    respectable one. Jimmy and Kathleen screamed. I am sorry, but they did.
                “Hush!” said Gerald savagely: he was still wearing the ring. “Hold your tongues!
                    I'll get him away,” he added in a whisper.
                “Very sad affair this,” said the respectable Ugly-Wugly. He spoke with a curious
                    accent; there was something odd about his r's, and his m's and n's were those of
                    a person labouring under an almost intolerable cold in the head. But it was not
                    the dreadful “oo” and “ah” voice of the night before. Kathleen and Jimmy stooped
                    over the bailiff. Even that prostrate form, being human, seemed some little
                    protection. But Gerald, strong in the fearlessness that the ring gave to its
                    wearer, looked full into the face of the Ugly-Wugly—and started. For though the
                    face was almost the same as the face he had himself painted on the school
                    drawing-paper, it was not the same. For it was no longer paper. It was a real
                    face, and the hands, lean and almost transparent as they were, were real hands. As it moved a little to get a better
                    view of the bailiff it was plain that it had legs, arms—live legs and arms, and
                    a self-supporting backbone. It was alive indeed—with a vengeance.
                “How did it happen?” Gerald asked with an effort at calmness—a successful
                    effort.
                “Most regrettable,” said the Ugly-Wugly. “The others must have missed the way
                    last night in the passage. They never found the hotel.”
                “Did >you?” asked Gerald blankly.
                “Of course,” said the Ugly-Wugly. “Most respectable, exactly as you said. Then
                    when I came away—I didn't come the front way because I wanted to revisit this
                    sylvan scene by daylight, and the hotel people didn't seem to know how to direct
                    me to it—I found the others all at this door, very angry. They'd been here all
                    night, trying to get out. Then the door opened—this gentleman must have opened
                    it—and before I could protect him, that underbred man in the high hat—you
                    remember—”
                Gerald remembered.
                “Hit him on the head, and he fell where you see him. The others dispersed, and I
                    myself was just going for assistance when I saw you.”
                Here Jimmy was discovered to be in tears and Kathleen white as any
                    drawing-paper.
                “What's the matter, my little man?” said the respectable Ugly-Wugly kindly. Jimmy
                    passed instantly from tears to yells.
                
                “Here, take the ring!” said Gerald in a furious whisper, and thrust it on to
                    Jimmy's hot, damp, resisting finger. Jimmy's voice stopped short in the middle
                    of a howl. And Gerald in a cold flash realised what it was that Mabel had gone
                    through the night before. But it was daylight, and Gerald was not a coward.
                “We must find the others,” he said.
                “I imagine,” said the elderly Ugly-Wugly, “that they have gone to bathe. Their
                    clothes are in the wood.”
                He pointed stiffly.
                “You two go and see,” said Gerald. “I'll go on dabbing this chap's head.”
                In the wood Jimmy, now fearless as any lion, discovered four heaps of clothing,
                    with broomsticks, hockey-sticks, and masks complete, all that had gone to make
                    up the gentlemen Ugly-Wuglies of the night before. On a stone seat well in the
                    sun sat the two lady Ugly-Wuglies, and Kathleen approached them gingerly. Valour
                    is easier in the sunshine than at night, as we all know. When she and Jimmy came
                    close to the bench, they saw that the Ugly-Wuglies were only Ugly-Wuglies such
                    as they had often made. There was no life in them. Jimmy shook them to pieces,
                    and a sigh of relief burst from Kathleen.
                “The spell's broken, you see,” she said; “and that old gentleman, he's real. He
                    only happens to be like the Ugly-Wugly we made.”
                “He's got the coat that hung in the hall on, anyway,” said Jimmy.
                
                
                
                “No, it's only like it. Let's get back to the unconscious stranger.”
                They did, and Gerald begged the elderly Ugly-Wugly to retire among the bushes
                    with Jimmy; “because,” said he, “I think the poor bailiff's coming round, and it
                    might upset him to see strangers—and Jimmy'll keep you company. He's the best
                    one of us to go with you,” he added hastily.
                And this, since Jimmy had the ring, was certainly true.
                So the two disappeared behind the rhododendrons. Mabel came back with the salts
                    just as the bailiff opened his eyes.
                “It's just like life,” she said; “I might just as well not have gone. However——”
                    She knelt down at once and held the bottle under the sufferer's nose till he
                    sneezed and feebly pushed her hand away with the faint question:
                “What's up now?”
                “You've hurt your head,” said Gerald. “Lie still.”
                “No—more—smelling—bottle,” he said weakly, and lay.
                Quite soon he sat up and looked round him. There was an anxious silence. Here was
                    a grown-up who knew last night's secret, and none of the children were at all
                    sure what the utmost rigour of the law might be in a case where people, no
                    matter how young, made Ugly-Wuglies, and brought them to life—dangerous,
                    fighting, angry life. What would he say—what
                    would he do? He said: “What an odd thing! Have I been insensible long?”
                “Hours,” said Mabel earnestly.
                “Not long,” said Kathleen.
                “We don't know. We found you like it,” said Gerald.
                “I'm all right now,” said the bailiff, and his eye fell on the blood-stained
                    handkerchief. “I say, I did give my head a bang. And you've been giving me first
                    aid. Thank you most awfully. But it is rum.”
                “What's rum?” politeness obliged Gerald to ask.
                “Well, I suppose it isn't really rum—I expect I saw you just before I fainted, or
                    whatever it was—but I've dreamed the most extraordinary dream while I've been
                    insensible, and you were in it.”
                “Nothing but us?” asked Mabel breathlessly.
                “Oh, lots of things—impossible things—but you were real enough.”
                Every one breathed deeply in relief. It was indeed, as they agreed later, a lucky
                    let-off.
                “Are you sure you're all right?” they all asked, as he got on his feet.
                “Perfectly, thank you.” He glanced behind Flora's statue as he spoke. “Do you
                    know, I dreamed there was a door there, but of course there isn't. I don't know
                    how to thank you,” he added, looking at them with what the girls called his
                    beautiful, kind eyes; “it's lucky for me you came along. You come here whenever
                    you like, you know,” he added. “I give you the freedom of the place.”
                
                “You're the new bailiff, aren't you?” said Mabel.
                “Yes. How did you know?” he asked quickly; but they did not tell him how they
                    knew. Instead, they found out which way he was going, and went the other way
                    after warm hand-shakes and hopes on both sides that they would meet again
                    soon.
                “I'll tell you what,” said Gerald, as they watched the tall, broad figure of the
                    bailiff grow smaller across the hot green of the grass slope, “have you got any
                    idea of how we're going to spend the day? Because I have.”
                The others hadn't.
                “We'll get rid of that Ugly-Wugly—oh, we'll find a way right enough—and directly
                    we've done it we'll go home and seal up the ring in an envelope so that its
                    teeth'll be drawn and it'll be powerless to have unforeseen larks with us. Then
                    we'll get out on the roof, and have a quiet day—books and apples. I'm about fed
                    up with adventures, so I tell you.”
                The others told him the same thing.
                “Now, think,” said he—“think as you never thought before—how to get
                    rid of that Ugly-Wugly.”
                Every one thought, but their brains were tired with anxiety and distress, and the
                    thoughts they thought were, as Mabel said, not worth thinking, let alone
                    saying.
                “I suppose Jimmy's all right,” said Kathleen anxiously.
                “Oh, he's all right: he's got the ring,” said Gerald.
                
                “I hope he won't go wishing anything rotten,” said Mabel, but Gerald urged her to
                    shut up and let him think.
                “I think I think best sitting down,” he said, and sat; “and sometimes you can
                    think best aloud. The Ugly-Wugly's real—don't make any mistake
                    about that. And he got made real inside that passage. If we could get him back
                    there he might get changed again, and then we could take the coats and things
                    back.”
                “Isn't there any other way?” Kathleen asked; and Mabel, more candid, said
                    bluntly: “I'm not going into that passage, so there!”
                “Afraid! In broad daylight,” Gerald sneered.
                “It wouldn't be broad daylight in there,” said Mabel, and Kathleen shivered.
                “If we went to him and suddenly tore his coat off,” said she—“he is
                    only coats—he couldn't go on being real then.”
                “Couldn't he!” said Gerald. “You don't know what he's like under the
                    coat.”
                Kathleen shivered again. And all this time the sun was shining gaily and the
                    white statues and the green trees and the fountains and terraces looked as
                    cheerfully romantic as a scene in a play.
                “Any way,” said Gerald, “we'll try to get him back, and shut the door. That's the
                    most we can hope for. And then apples, and “Robinson Crusoe” or the “Swiss
                    Family,” or any book you like that's got no magic in it. Now, we've just got to
                    do it. And he's not horrid now; really he isn't. He's real, you
                    see.”
                
                “I suppose that makes all the difference,” said Mabel, and tried to feel that
                    perhaps it did.
                “And it's broad daylight—just look at the sun,” Gerald insisted. “Come on!”
                He took a hand of each, and they walked resolutely towards the bank of
                    rhododendrons behind which Jimmy and the Ugly-Wugly had been told to wait, and
                    as they went Gerald said: “He's real”—“The sun's shining”—“It'll all be over in
                    a minute.” And he said these things again and again, so that there should be no
                    mistake about them.
                As they neared the bushes the shining leaves rustled, shivered, and parted, and
                    before the girl had time to begin to hang back Jimmy came blinking out into the
                    sunlight. The boughs closed behind him, and they did not stir or rustle for the
                    appearance of any one else. Jimmy was alone.
                “Where is it?” asked the girls in one breath.
                “Walking up and down in a fir-walk,” said Jimmy, “doing sums in a book. He says
                    he's most frightfully rich, and he's got to get up to town to the Stocks or
                    something—where they change papers into gold if you're clever, he says. I should
                    like to go to the Stocks-change, wouldn't you?”
                “I don't seem to care very much about changes,” said Gerald. “I've had enough.
                    Show us where he is—we must get rid of him.”
                “He's got a motor-car,” Jimmy went on, parting
                    the warm varnished-looking rhododendron leaves, “and a garden with a
                    tennis-court and a lake and a carriage and pair, and he goes to Athens for his
                    holiday sometimes, just like other people go to Margate.”
                “The best thing,” said Gerald, following through the bushes, “will be to tell him
                    the shortest way out is through that hotel that he thinks he found last night.
                    Then we get him into the passage, give him a push, fly back, and shut the
                    door.”
                “He'll starve to death in there,” said Kathleen, “if he's really real.”
                “I expect it doesn't last long, the ring magics don't—anyway, it's the only thing
                    I can think of.”
                “He's frightfully rich,” Jimmy went on unheeding amid the cracking of the bushes;
                    “he's building a public library for the people where he lives, and having his
                    portrait painted to put in it. He thinks they'll like that.”
                The belt of rhododendrons was passed, and the children had reached a smooth grass
                    walk bordered by tall pines and firs of strange different kinds. “He's just
                    round that corner,” said Jimmy. “He's simply rolling in money. He doesn't know
                    what to do with it. He's been building a horse-trough and drinking fountain with
                    a bust of himself on top. Why doesn't he build a private swimming-bath close to
                    his bed, so that he can just roll off into it of a morning? I wish
                        I was rich; I'd soon show him——”
                
                “That's a sensible wish,” said Gerald. “I wonder we didn't think of doing that.
                    Oh, criky!” he added, and with reason. For there, in the green shadows of the
                    pine-walk, in the woodland silence, broken only by rustling leaves and the
                    agitated breathing of the three unhappy others, Jimmy got his wish. By quick but
                    perfectly plain-to-be-seen degrees Jimmy became rich. And the horrible thing was
                    that though they could see it happening they did not know what was happening,
                    and could not have stopped it if they had. All they could see was Jimmy, their
                    own Jimmy, whom they had larked with and quarrelled with and made it up with
                    ever since they could remember, Jimmy continuously and horribly growing old. The
                    whole thing was over in a few seconds. Yet in those few seconds they saw him
                    grow to a youth, a young man, a middle-aged man; and then, with a sort of
                    shivering shock, unspeakably horrible and definite, he seemed to settle down
                    into an elderly gentleman, handsomely but rather dowdily dressed, who was
                    looking down at them through spectacles and asking them the nearest way to the
                    railway-station. If they had not seen the change take place, in all its awful
                    details, they would never have guessed that this stout, prosperous, elderly
                    gentleman with the high hat, the frock-coat, and the large red seal dangling
                    from the curve of a portly waistcoat, was their own Jimmy. But, as they
                        had seen it, they knew the dreadful truth.
                
                “Oh, Jimmy, don't!” cried Mabel desperately.
                Gerald said: “This is perfectly beastly,” and Kathleen broke into wild
                    weeping.
                “Don't cry, little girl!” said That-which-had-been Jimmy; “and you, boy, can't
                    you give a civil answer to a civil question?”
                “He doesn't know us!” wailed Kathleen.
                “Who doesn't know you?” said That-which-had-been impatiently.
                “Y—y—you don't!” Kathleen sobbed.
                “I certainly don't,” returned That-which—— “but surely that need not distress you
                    so deeply.”
                “Oh, Jimmy, Jimmy, Jimmy!” Kathleen sobbed louder than before.
                “He doesn't know us,” Gerald owned, “or—look here, Jimmy, y—you
                    aren't kidding, are you? Because if you are it's simply abject rot——”
                “My name is Mr. ——,” said That-which-had-been-Jimmy, and gave the name correctly.
                    By the way, it will perhaps be shorter to call this elderly stout person who was
                    Jimmy grown rich by some simpler name than I have just used. Let us call him
                    “That”—short for “That-which-had-been-Jimmy.”
                “What are we to do?” whispered Mabel, awestruck; and aloud she said:
                    “Oh, Mr. James, or whatever you call yourself, do give me the
                    ring.” For on That's finger the fatal ring showed plain.
                “Certainly not,” said That firmly. “You appear to be a very grasping child.”
                
                “But what are you going to do?” Gerald asked in the flat tones of
                    complete hopelessness.
                “Your interest is very flattering,” said That. “Will you tell me, or won't you,
                    the way to the nearest railway-station?”
                “No,” said Gerald, “we won't.”
                “Then,” said That, still politely, though quite plainly furious, “perhaps you'll
                    tell me the way to the nearest lunatic asylum?”
                “Oh, no, no, no!” cried Kathleen. “You're not so bad as that.”
                “Perhaps not. But you are,” That retorted; “if you're not lunatics
                    you're idiots. However, I see a gentleman ahead who is perhaps sane. In fact, I
                    seem to recognise him.” A gentleman, indeed, was now to be seen approaching. It
                    was the elderly Ugly-Wugly.
                “Oh! don't you remember Jerry?” Kathleen cried, “and Cathy, your own Cathy Puss
                    Cat? Dear, dear Jimmy, don't be so silly!”
                “Little girl,” said That, looking at her crossly through his spectacles, “I am
                    sorry you have not been better brought up.” And he walked stiffly towards the
                    Ugly-Wugly. Two hats were raised, a few words were exchanged, and two elderly
                    figures walked side by side down the green pine-walk, followed by three
                    miserable children, horrified, bewildered, alarmed, and, what is really worse
                    than anything, quite at their wits' end.
                “He wished to be rich, so of course he is,” said Gerald; “he'll have money for
                    tickets and everything.”
                
                
                “And when the spell breaks—it's sure to break, isn't it?—he'll find himself
                    somewhere awful—perhaps in a really good hotel—and not know how he got
                    there.”
                “I wonder how long the Ugly-Wuglies' lasted,” said Mabel.
                “Yes,” Gerald answered, “that reminds me. You two must collect the
                    coats and things. Hide them, anywhere you like, and we'll carry them home
                    to-morrow—if there is any tomorrow,” he added darkly.
                “Oh, don't!” said Kathleen, once more breathing heavily on the verge of tears:
                    “you wouldn't think everything could be so awful, and the sun
                    shining like it does.”
                “Look here,” said Gerald, “of course I must stick to Jimmy. You two must go home
                    to Mademoiselle and tell her Jimmy and I have gone off in the train with a
                    gentleman—say he looked like an uncle. He does—some kinds of uncle. There'll be
                    a beastly row afterwards, but it's got to be done.”
                “It all seems thick with lies,” said Kathleen; “you don't seem to be able to get
                    a word of truth in edgewise hardly.”
                “Don't you worry,” said her brother; “they aren't lies—they're as true as
                    anything else in this magic rot we've got mixed up in. It's like telling lies in
                    a dream; you can't help it.”
                “Well, all I know is I wish it would stop.”
                “Lot of use your wishing that is,” said Gerald, exasperated. “So
                    long. I've got to go, and you've got to stay. If it's
                    any comfort to you, I don't believe
                        any of it's real: it can't be; it's too thick. Tell
                    Mademoiselle Jimmy and I will be back to tea. If we don't happen to be I can't
                    help it. I can't help anything, except perhaps Jimmy.” He started to run, for
                    the girls had lagged, and the Ugly-Wugly and That (late Jimmy) had quickened
                    their pace.
                The girls were left looking after them.
                “We've got to find these clothes,” said Mabel, “simply got to. I
                    used to want to be a heroine. It's different when it really comes to being,
                    isn't it?”
                “Yes, very,” said Kathleen. “Where shall we hide the clothes when we've got them?
                    Not—not that passage?”
                “Never!” said Mabel firmly; “we'll hide them inside the great stone dinosaurus.
                    He's hollow.”
                “He comes alive—in his stone,” said Kathleen.
                “Not in the sunshine he doesn't,” Mabel told her confidently, “and not without
                    the ring.”
                “There won't be any apples and books to-day,” said Kathleen.
                “No, but we'll do the babiest thing we can do the minute we get
                    home. We'll have a dolls' tea-party. That'll make us feel as if there wasn't
                    really any magic.”
                “It'll have to be a very strong tea party, then,” said Kathleen doubtfully.
                
                And now we see Gerald, a small but quite determined figure, paddling along in the
                    soft white dust of the sunny road, in the wake
                    of two elderly gentlemen. His hand, in his trousers pocket, buries itself with a
                    feeling of satisfaction in the heavy mixed coinage that is his share of the
                    profits of his conjuring at the fair. His noiseless tennis-shoes bear him to the
                    station, where, unobserved, he listens at the ticket office to the voice of
                    That-which-was-James. “One first London,” it says; and Gerald, waiting till That
                    and the Ugly-Wugly have strolled on to the platform, politely conversing of
                    politics and the Kaffir market, takes a third return to London. The train
                    strides in, squeaking and puffing. The watched take their seats in a carriage
                    blue-lined. The watcher springs into a yellow wooden compartment. A whistle
                    sounds, a flag is waved. The train pulls itself together, strains, jerks, and
                    starts.
                “I don't understand,” says Gerald, alone in his third-class carriage, “how
                    railway trains and magic can go on at the same time.”
                And yet they do.
                
                Mabel and Kathleen, nervously peering among the rhododendron bushes and the
                    bracken and the fancy fir-trees, find six several heaps of coats, hats, skirts,
                    gloves, golf-clubs, hockey-sticks, broom-handles. They carry them, panting and
                    damp, for the mid-day sun is pitiless, up the hill to where the stone dinosaurus
                    looms immense among a forest of larches. The dinosaurus has a hole in his
                    stomach. Kathleen shows Mabel how to “make
                     a back” and climbs up on it into the cold,
                    stony inside of the monster. Mabel hands up the clothes and the sticks.
                “There's lots of room,” says Kathleen; “its tail goes down into the ground. It's
                    like a secret passage.”
                “Suppose something comes out of it and jumps out at you,” says Mabel, and
                    Kathleen hurriedly descends.
                The explanations to Mademoiselle promise to be difficult, but, as Kathleen said
                    afterwards, any little thing is enough to take a grown-up's attention off. A
                    figure passes the window just as they are explaining that it really did look
                    exactly like an uncle that the boys have gone to London with.
                “Who's that?” says Mademoiselle suddenly, pointing, too, which every one knows is
                    not manners.
                It is the bailiff coming back from the doctor's with antiseptic plaster on that
                    nasty cut that took so long a-bathing this morning. They tell her it is the
                    bailiff at Yalding Towers, and she says, “Sky!” (Ciel!) and asks no more awkward questions about the boys.
                    Lunch—very late—is a silent meal. After lunch Mademoiselle goes out, in a hat
                    with many pink roses, carrying a rose-lined parasol. The girls, in dead silence,
                    organise a dolls' tea-party, with real tea. At the second cup Kathleen bursts
                    into tears. Mabel, also weeping, embraces her.
                “I wish,” sobs Kathleen, “oh, I do wish I knew where the boys were! It would be
                    such a comfort.”
                
                Gerald knew where the boys were, and it was no comfort to him at all. If you come
                    to think of it, he was the only person who could know where they were, because
                    Jimmy didn't know that he was a boy—and indeed he wasn't really—and the
                    Ugly-Wugly couldn't be expected to know anything real, such as where boys were.
                    At the moment when the second cup of dolls' tea—very strong, but not strong
                    enough to drown care in—was being poured out by the trembling hand of Kathleen,
                    Gerald was lurking—there really is no other word for it—on the staircase of
                    Aldermanbury Buildings, Old Broad Street. On the floor below him was a door
                    bearing the legend “MR. U.W. UGLI, Stock and Share Broker. And at the Stock
                    Exchange,” and on the floor above was another door, on which was the name of
                    Gerald's little brother, now grown suddenly rich in so magic and tragic a way.
                    There were no explaining words under Jimmy's name. Gerald could not guess what
                    walk in life it was to which That (which had been Jimmy) owed its affluence. He
                    had seen, when the door opened to admit his brother, a tangle of clerks and
                    mahogany desks. Evidently That had a large business.
                What was Gerald to do? What could he do?
                It is almost impossible, especially for one so young as Gerald, to enter a large
                    London office and explain that the elderly and
                    respected head of it is not what he seems, but is really your little brother,
                    who has been suddenly advanced to age and wealth by a tricky wishing ring. If
                    you think it's a possible thing, try it, that's all. Nor could he knock at the
                    door of Mr. U.W. Ugli, Stock and Share Broker (and at the Stock Exchange), and
                    inform his clerks that their chief was really nothing but old
                    clothes that had accidentally come alive, and by some magic, which he couldn't
                    attempt to explain, become real during a night spent at a really good hotel
                    which had no existence.
                The situation bristled, as you see, with difficulties. And it was so long past
                    Gerald's proper dinner-time that his increasing hunger was rapidly growing to
                    seem the most important difficulty of all. It is quite possible to starve to
                    death on the staircase of a London building if the people you are watching for
                    only stay long enough in their offices. The truth of this came home to Gerald
                    more and more painfully.
                A boy with hair like a new front door mat came whistling up the stairs. He had a
                    dark blue bag in his hands.
                “I'll give you a tanner for yourself if you'll get me a tanner's worth of buns,”
                    said Gerald, with that prompt decision common to all great commanders.
                “Show us yer tanners,” the boy rejoined with at least equal promptness. Gerald
                    showed them. “All right; hand over.”
                
                “Payment on delivery,” said Gerald, using words from the drapers which he had
                    never thought to use.
                The boy grinned admiringly.
                “Knows 'is wy abaht,” he said; “ain't no flies on 'im.”
                “Not many,” Gerald owned with modest pride. “Cut along, there's a good chap. I've
                        got to wait here. I'll take care of your bag if you like.”
                “Nor yet there ain't no flies on me neither,” remarked the boy, shouldering it.
                    “I been up to the confidence trick for years—ever since I was your age.”
                With this parting shot he went, and returned in due course bun-laden. Gerald gave
                    the sixpence and took the buns. When the boy, a minute later, emerged from the
                    door of Mr. U.W. Ugli, Stock and Share Broker (and at the Stock Exchange),
                    Gerald stopped him.
                “What sort of chap's that?” he asked, pointing the question with a jerk of an
                    explaining thumb.
                “Awful big pot,” said the boy; “up to his eyes in oof. Motor and all that.”
                “Know anything about the one on the next landing?”
                “He's bigger than what this one is. Very old firm—special cellar in the Bank of
                    England to put his chink in—all in bins like against the wall at the
                    corn-chandler's. Jimminy, I wouldn't mind 'alf an hour in there, and the doors
                    open and the police away at a beano. Not much!
                    Neither. You'll bust if you eat all them buns.”
                “Have one?” Gerald responded, and held out the bag.
                “They say in our office,” said the boy, paying for the bun honourably with
                    unasked information, “as these two is all for cutting each other's throats—oh,
                    only in the way of business—been at it for years.”
                Gerald wildly wondered what magic and how much had been needed to give history
                    and a past to these two things of yesterday, the rich Jimmy and the Ugly-Wugly.
                    If he could get them away would all memory of them fade—in this boy's mind, for
                    instance, in the minds of all the people who did business with them in the City?
                    Would the mahogany-and-clerk-furnished offices fade away? Were the clerks real?
                    Was the mahogany? Was he himself real? Was the boy?
                “Can you keep a secret?” he asked the other boy. “Are you on for a lark?”
                “I ought to be getting back to the office,” said the boy.
                “Get then!” said Gerald.
                “Don't you get stuffy,” said the boy. “I was just agoing to say it didn't matter.
                    I know how to make my nose bleed if I'm a bit late.”
                Gerald congratulated him on this accomplishment, at once so useful and so
                    graceful, and then said:—
                “Look here. I'll give you five bob—honest.”
                
                “What for?” was the boy's natural question.
                “If you'll help me.”
                “Fire ahead.”
                “I'm a private inquiry,” said Gerald.
                “'Tec? You don't look it.”
                “What's the good of being one if you look it?” Gerald asked impatiently,
                    beginning on another bun. “That old chap on the floor above—he's
                        wanted.”
                “Police?” asked the boy with fine carelessness.
                “No—sorrowing relations.”
                “‘Return to,’” said the boy; “‘all forgotten and forgiven.’ I see.”
                “And I've got to get him to them, somehow. Now, if you could go in and give him a
                    message from some one who wanted to meet him on business——”
                “Hold on!” said the boy. “I know a trick worth two of that. You go in and see old
                    Ugli. He'd give his ears to have the old boy out of the way for a day or two.
                    They were saying so in our office only this morning.”
                “Let me think,” said Gerald, laying down the last bun on his knee expressly to
                    hold his head in his hands.
                “Don't you forget to think about my five bob,” said the boy.
                Then there was a silence on the stairs, broken only by the cough of a clerk in
                    That's office, and the clickety-clack of a typewriter in the office of Mr. U.W.
                    Ugli.
                Then Gerald rose up and finished the bun.
                
                “You're right,” he said. “I'll chance it. Here's your five bob.”
                He brushed the bun crumbs from his front, cleared his throat, and knocked at the
                    door of Mr. U.W. Ugli. It opened and he entered.
                The door-mat boy lingered, secure in his power to account for his long absence by
                    means of his well-trained nose, and his waiting was rewarded. He went down a few
                    steps, round the bend of the stairs, and heard the voice of Mr. U.W. Ugli, so
                    well known on that staircase (and on the Stock Exchange) say in soft, cautious
                    accents:—
                “Then I'll ask him to let me look at the ring—and I'll drop it. You pick it up.
                    But remember, it's a pure accident, and you don't know me. I can't have my name
                    mixed up in a thing like this. You're sure he's really
                    unhinged?”
                “Quite,” said Gerald; “he's quite mad about that ring. He'll follow it anywhere.
                    I know he will. And think of his sorrowing relations.”
                “I do—I do,” said Mr. Ugli kindly; “that's all I do think of, of
                    course.”
                He went up the stairs to the other office, and Gerald heard the voice of That
                    telling his clerks that he was going out to lunch. Then the horrible Ugly-Wugly
                    and Jimmy, hardly less horrible in the eyes of Gerald, passed down the stairs
                    where, in the dusk of the lower landing, two boys were making themselves as
                    undistinguishable as possible, and so out into the street, talking of stocks and shares, bears and
                    bulls. The two boys followed.
                “I say,” the door-mat-headed boy whispered admiringly, “whatever are you up
                    to?”
                “You'll see,” said Gerald recklessly. “Come on!”
                “You tell me. I must be getting back.”
                “Well, I'll tell you, but you won't believe me. That old gentleman's not really
                    old at all—he's my young brother suddenly turned into what you see. The other's
                    not real at all. He's only just old clothes and nothing inside.”
                “He looks it, I must say,” the boy admitted; “but I say—you do stick it on, don't
                    you?”
                “Well, my brother was turned like that by a magic ring.”
                “There ain't no such thing as magic,” said the boy. “I learnt that at
                    school.”
                “All right,” said Gerald. “Goodbye.”
                “Oh, go ahead!” said the boy; “you do stick it on, though.”
                “Well, that magic ring. If I can get hold of it I shall just wish we were all in
                    a certain place. And we shall be. And then I can deal with both of them.”
                “Deal?”
                “Yes, the ring won't unwish anything you've wished. That undoes
                    itself with time, like a spring uncoiling. But it'll give you a brand-new
                    wish—I'm almost certain of it. Anyhow, I'm going to chance it.”
                “You are a rotter, aren't you?” said the boy respectfully.
                
                “You wait and see,” Gerald repeated.
                “I say, you aren't going into this swell place! you can't?”
                The boy paused, appalled at the majesty of Pym's.
                “Yes, I am—they can't turn us out as long as we behave. You come along, too. I'll
                    stand lunch.”
                I don't know why Gerald clung so to this boy. He wasn't a very nice boy. Perhaps
                    it was because he was the only person Gerald knew in London, to speak to—except
                    That-which-had-been-Jimmy and the Ugly-Wugly; and he did not want to talk to
                    either of them.
                What happened next happened so quickly that, as Gerald said later, it was “just
                    like magic.” The restaurant was crowded—busy men were hastily bolting the food
                    hurriedly brought by busy waitresses. There was a clink of forks and plates, the
                    gurgle of beer from bottles, the hum of talk, and the smell of many good things
                    to eat.
                “Two chops, please,” Gerald had just said, playing with a plainly shown handful
                    of money, so as to leave no doubt of his honourable intentions. Then at the next
                    table he heard the words, “Ah, yes, curious old family heirloom,” the ring was
                    drawn off the finger of That, and Mr. U.W. Ugli, murmuring something about a
                    unique curio, reached his impossible hand out for it. The door-mat-headed boy
                    was watching breathlessly.
                “There's a ring right enough,” he owned. And
                    then the ring slipped from the hand of Mr. U.W. Ugli and skidded along the
                    floor. Gerald pounced on it like a greyhound on a hare. He thrust the dull
                    circlet on his finger and cried out aloud in that crowded place:—
                “I wish Jimmy and I were inside that door behind the statue of Flora.”
                It was the only safe place he could think of.
                The lights and sounds and scents of the restaurant died away as a wax-drop dies
                    in fire—a rain-drop in water. I don't know, and Gerald never knew, what happened
                    in that restaurant. There was nothing about it in the papers, though Gerald
                    looked anxiously for “Extraordinary Disappearance of well-known City Man.” What
                    the door-mat-headed boy did or thought I don't know either. No more does Gerald.
                    But he would like to know, whereas I don't care tuppence. The world went on all
                    right, anyhow, whatever he thought or did. The lights and the sounds and the
                    scents of Pym's died out. In place of the light there was darkness; in place of
                    the sounds there was silence; and in place of the scent of beef, pork, mutton,
                    fish, veal, cabbage, onions, carrots, beer, and tobacco there was the musty,
                    damp scent of a place underground that has been long shut up.
                Gerald felt sick and giddy, and there was something at the back of his mind that
                    he knew would make him feel sicker and giddier as soon as he should have the
                    sense to remember what it was. Meantime it was important to think of
                     proper words to soothe the City man that had
                    once been Jimmy—to keep him quiet till Time, like a spring uncoiling, should
                    bring the reversal of the spell—make all things as they were and as they ought
                    to be. But he fought in vain for words. There were none. Nor were they needed.
                    For through the deep darkness came a voice—and it was not the voice of that City
                    man who had been Jimmy, but the voice of that very Jimmy who was Gerald's little
                    brother, and who had wished that unlucky wish for riches that could only be
                    answered by changing all that was Jimmy, young and poor, to all that Jimmy, rich
                    and old, would have been. Another voice said: “Jerry, Jerry! Are you awake?—I've
                    had such a rum dream.”
                And then there was a moment when nothing was said or done.
                Gerald felt through the thick darkness, and the thick silence, and the thick
                    scent of old earth shut up, and he got hold of Jimmy's hand.
                “It's all right, Jimmy, old chap,” he said; “it's not a dream now. It's that
                    beastly ring again. I had to wish us here, to get you back at all out of your
                    dream.”
                “Wish us where?” Jimmy held on to the hand in a way that in the daylight of life
                    he would have been the first to call babyish.
                “Inside the passage—behind the Flora statue,” said Gerald, adding, “it's all
                    right, really.”
                “Oh, I daresay it's all right,” Jimmy answered through the dark, with an
                    irritation not strong enough to make him loosen his hold of his brother's hand. “But how are we going to get
                        out?”
                Then Gerald knew what it was that was waiting to make him feel more giddy than
                    the lightning flight from Cheapside to Yalding Towers had been able to make him.
                    But he said stoutly:
                “I'll wish us out, of course.” Though all the time he knew that the ring would
                    not undo its given wishes.
                It didn't.
                Gerald wished. He handed the ring carefully to Jimmy, through the thick darkness.
                    And Jimmy wished.
                And there they still were, in that black passage behind Flora, that had led—in
                    the case of one Ugly-Wugly at least—to “a good hotel.” And the stone door was
                    shut. And they did not know even which way to turn to it.
                “If I only had some matches!” said Gerald.
                “Why didn't you leave me in the dream?” Jimmy almost whimpered. “It was light
                    there, and I was just going to have salmon and cucumber.”
                “I,” rejoined Gerald in gloom, “was just going to have steak and fried
                    potatoes.”
                The silence, and the darkness, and the earthy scent were all they had now.
                “I always wondered what it would be like,” said Jimmy in low, even tones, “to be
                    buried alive. And now I know! Oh!” his voice suddenly rose to a shriek, “it
                    isn't true, it isn't! It's a dream—that's what it is !”
                
                There was a pause while you could have counted ten. Then—
                “Yes,” said Gerald bravely, through the scent and the silence and the darkness,
                    “it's just a dream, Jimmy, old chap. We'll just hold on, and call out now and
                    then just for the lark of the thing. But it's really only a dream, of
                    course.”
                “Of course,” said Jimmy in the silence and the darkness and the scent of old
                    earth.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER IX
                THERE is a curtain, thin as gossamer, clear as glass, strong as iron,
                    that hangs for ever between the world of magic and the world that seems to us to
                    be real. And when once people have found one of the little weak spots in that
                    curtain which are marked by magic rings, and amulets, and the like, almost
                    anything may happen. Thus it is not surprising that Mabel and Kathleen,
                    conscientiously conducting one of the dullest dolls' tea-parties at which either
                    had ever assisted, should suddenly, and both at once, have felt a strange,
                    unreasonable, but quite irresistible desire to return instantly to the Temple of
                    Flora—even at the cost of leaving the dolls' tea-service in an unwashed state,
                    and only half the raisins eaten. They went—as one has to go when the magic
                    impulse drives one—against their better judgment, against their wills
                    almost.
                And the nearer they came to the Temple of Flora, in the golden hush of the
                    afternoon, the more certain each was that they could not possibly have done
                    otherwise.
                And this explains exactly how it was that when
                    Gerald and Jimmy, holding hands in the darkness of the passage, uttered their
                    first concerted yell, “just for the lark of the thing,” that yell was instantly
                    answered from outside.
                A crack of light showed in that part of the passage where they had least expected
                    the door to be. The stone door itself swung slowly open, and they were out of
                    it, in the Temple of Flora, blinking in the good daylight, an unresisting prey
                    to Kathleen's embraces and the questionings of Mabel.
                “And you left that Ugly-Wugly loose in London,” Mabel pointed out; “you might
                    have wished it to be with you, too.”
                “It's all right where it is,” said Gerald. “I couldn't think of everything. And
                    besides, no, thank you! Now we'll go home and seal up the ring in an
                    envelope.”
                “I haven't done anything with the ring yet,” said Kathleen.
                “I shouldn't think you'd want to when you see the sort of things it does with
                    you,” said Gerald.
                “It wouldn't do things like that if I was wishing with it,” Kathleen
                    protested.
                “Look here,” said Mabel, “let's just put it back in the treasure-room and have
                    done with it. I oughtn't ever to have taken it away, really. It's a sort of
                    stealing. It's quite as bad, really, as Eliza borrowing it to astonish her
                    gentleman friend with.”
                “I don't mind putting it back if you like,” said Gerald, “only if any of us do
                    think of a sensible wish you'll let us have it
                    out again, of course?”
                “Of course, of course,” Mabel agreed.
                So they trooped up to the castle, and Mabel once more worked the spring that let
                    down the panelling and showed the jewels, and the ring was put back among the
                    odd dull ornaments that Mabel had once said were magic.
                “How innocent it looks!” said Gerald. “You wouldn't think there was any magic
                    about it. It's just like an old silly ring. I wonder if what Mabel said about
                    the other things is true! Suppose we try.”
                “Don't!” said Kathleen. “I think magic things are
                    spiteful. They just enjoy getting you into tight places.”
                “I'd like to try,” said Mabel, “only—well, everything's been rather upsetting,
                    and I've forgotten what I said anything was.”
                So had the others. Perhaps that was why, when Gerald said that a bronze buckle
                    laid on the foot would have the effect of seven-league boots, it didn't; when
                    Jimmy, a little of the City man he had been clinging to him still, said that the
                    steel collar would ensure your always having money in your pockets, his own
                    remained empty; and when Mabel and Kathleen invented qualities of the most
                    delightful nature for various rings and chains and brooches, nothing at all
                    happened.
                “It's only the ring that's magic,” said Mabel at last; “and, I say!” she added,
                    in quite a different voice.
                
                “What?”
                “Suppose even the ring isn't!”
                “But we know it is.”
                “I don't,” said Mabel. “I believe it's not to-day at all. I believe it's the
                    other day—we've just dreamed all these things. It's the day I made up that
                    nonsense about the ring.”
                “No, it isn't,” said Gerald; “you were in your Princess-clothes then.”
                “What Princess-clothes?” said Mabel, opening her dark eyes very wide.
                “Oh, don't be silly,” said Gerald wearily.
                “I'm not silly,” said Mabel; “and I think it's time you went. I'm sure Jimmy
                    wants his tea.”
                “Of course I do,” said Jimmy. “But you had got the Princess-clothes that day.
                    Come along; let's shut up the shutters and leave the ring in its long home.”
                “What ring?” said Mabel.
                “Don't take any notice of her,” said Gerald. “She's only trying to be funny.”
                “No, I'm not,” said Mabel; “but I'm inspired like a Python or a Sibylline lady.
                    What ring?”
                “The wishing-ring,” said Kathleen; “the invisibility ring.”
                “Don't you see now,” said Mabel, her eyes wider than ever, “the
                    ring's what you say it is? That's how it came to make us
                    invisible—I just said it. Oh, we can't leave it here, if that's what it is. It
                    isn't stealing, really, when it's as valuable as that, you see. Say what it
                    is.”
                “It's a wishing-ring,” said Jimmy.
                
                “We've had that before and you had your silly wish,” said Mabel, more and more
                    excited. “I say it isn't a wishing-ring. I say it's a ring that makes the wearer
                    four yards high.”
                She had caught up the ring as she spoke, and even as she spoke the ring showed
                    high above the children's heads on the finger of an impossible Mabel, who was,
                    indeed, twelve feet high.
                “Now you've done it!” said Gerald—and he was right. It was in vain that Mabel
                    asserted that the ring was a wishing-ring. It quite clearly wasn't; it was what
                    she had said it was.
                “And you can't tell at all how long the effect will last,” said Gerald. “Look at
                    the invisibleness.” This is difficult to do, but the others understood him.
                “It may last for days,” said Kathleen. “Oh, Mabel, it was silly of
                    you!”
                “That's right, rub it in,” said Mabel bitterly; “you should have believed me when
                    I said it was what I said it was. Then I shouldn't have had to show you, and I
                    shouldn't be this silly size. What am I to do now, I should like to know?”
                “We must conceal you till you get your right size again—that's all,” said Gerald
                    practically.
                “Yes—but where?” said Mabel, stamping a foot twenty-four inches
                    long.
                “In one of the empty rooms. You wouldn't be afraid?”
                “Of course not,” said Mabel. “Oh, I do wish we'd just put the ring back and left
                    it.”
                
                “Well, it wasn't us that didn't,” said Jimmy, with more truth than grammar.
                “I shall put it back now,” said Mabel, tugging at it.
                “I wouldn't if I were you,” said Gerald thoughtfully. “You don't want to stay
                    that length, do you? And unless the ring's on your finger when the time's up, I
                    dare say it wouldn't act.”
                The exalted Mabel sullenly touched the spring. The panels slowly slid into place,
                    and all the bright jewels were hidden. Once more the room was merely
                    eight-sided, panelled, sunlit, and unfurnished.
                “Now,” said Mabel, “where am I to hide? It's a good thing auntie gave me leave to
                    stay the night with you. As it is, one of you will have to stay the night with
                    me. I'm not going to be left alone, the silly height I am.”
                Height was the right word; Mabel had said “four yards high”—and she
                        was four yards high. But she was hardly any thicker than when
                    her height was four feet seven, and the effect was, as Gerald remarked,
                    “wonderfully worm-like.” Her clothes had, of course, grown with her, and she
                    looked like a little girl reflected in one of those long bent mirrors at
                    Rosherville Gardens, that make stout people look so happily slender, and slender
                    people so sadly scraggy. She sat down suddenly on the floor, and it was like a
                    four-fold foot-rule folding itself up.
                “It's no use sitting there, girl,” said Gerald.
                
                
                “I'm not sitting here,” retorted Mabel; “I only got down so as to be able to get
                    through the door. It'll have to be hands and knees through most places for me
                    now, I suppose.”
                “Aren't you hungry?” Jimmy asked suddenly.
                “I don't know,” said Mabel desolately; “it's—it's such a long way off!”
                “Well, I'll scout,” said Gerald; “if the coast's clear——”
                “Look here,” said Mabel, “I think I'd rather be out of doors till it gets
                    dark.”
                “You can't. Some one's certain to see you.”
                “Not if I go through the yew-hedge,” said Mabel. “There's a yew-hedge with a
                    passage along its inside like the box-hedge in ‘The Luck of the Vails.’”
                “In what?”
                “‘The Luck of the Vails.’ It's a ripping book. It was that book first set me on
                    to hunt for hidden doors in panels and things. If I crept along that on my
                    front, like a serpent—it comes out amongst the rhododendrons, close by the
                    dinosaurus—we could camp there.”
                “There's tea,” said Gerald, who had had no dinner.
                “That's just what there isn't,” said Jimmy, who had had none either.
                “Oh, you won't desert me!” said Mabel. “Look here—I'll write to
                    auntie. She'll give you the things for a picnic, if she's there and awake. If
                    she isn't, one of the maids will.”
                So she wrote on a leaf of Gerald's invaluable pocket-book:—
                
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    “DEAREST AUNTIE,—
                                
                                “Please may we have some things for a picnic? Gerald will bring
                                    them. I would come myself, but I am a little tired. I think I
                                    have been growing rather fast.—Your loving niece,
                                
                                    “MABEL.”
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                “P.S.—Lots, please, because some of us are very hungry.”
                            
                        
                    
                
                It was found difficult, but possible, for Mabel to creep along the tunnel in the
                    yew-hedge. Possible, but slow, so that the three had hardly had time to settle
                    themselves among the rhododendrons and to wonder bitterly what on earth Gerald
                    was up to, to be such a time gone, when he returned, panting under the weight of
                    a covered basket. He dumped it down on the fine grass carpet, groaned, and
                    added, “But it's worth it. Where's our Mabel?”
                The long, pale face of Mabel peered out from rhododendron leaves, very near the
                    ground.
                “I look just like anybody else like this, don't I?” she asked anxiously; “all the
                    rest of me's miles away, under different bushes.”
                “We've covered up the bits between the bushes with bracken and leaves,” said
                    Kathleen, avoiding the question; “don't wriggle, Mabel, or you'll waggle them
                    off.”
                Jimmy was eagerly unpacking the basket. It was a generous tea. A long loaf,
                    butter in a cabbage-leaf, a bottle of milk, a bottle of water, cake, and large,
                    smooth, yellow gooseberries in a box that had once held an extra-sized bottle of somebody's matchless something for the
                    hair and moustache. Mabel cautiously advanced her incredible arm from the
                    rhododendron and leaned on one of her spindly elbows, Gerald cut bread and
                    butter, while Kathleen obligingly ran round, at Mabel's request, to see that the
                    green coverings had not dropped from any of the remoter parts of Mabel's person.
                    Then there was a happy, hungry silence, broken only by those brief, impassioned
                    suggestions natural to such an occasion:—
                “More cake, please.”
                “Milk ahoy, there.”
                “Chuck us the goosegogs.”
                Everyone grew calmer—more contented with their lot. A pleasant feeling, half
                    tiredness and half restfulness, crept to the extremities of the party. Even the
                    unfortunate Mabel was conscious of it in her remote feet, that lay crossed under
                    the third rhododendron to the north-north-west of the tea-party. Gerald did but
                    voice the feelings of the others when he said, not without regret:—
                “Well, I'm a new man, but I couldn't eat so much as another goosegog if you paid
                    me.”
                “I could,” said Mabel; “yes, I know they're all gone, and I've had
                    my share. But I could. It's me being so long, I suppose.”
                A delicious after-food peace filled the summer air. At a little distance the
                    green-lichened grey of the vast stone dinosaurus showed through the shrubs. He,
                    too, seemed peaceful and happy. Gerald caught his stone eye through a gap in the foliage. His glance seemed somehow
                    sympathetic.
                “I dare say he liked a good meal in his day,” said Gerald, stretching
                    luxuriously.
                “Who did?”
                “The dino what's-his-name,” said Gerald.
                “He had a meal to-day,” said Kathleen, and giggled.
                “Yes—didn't he?” said Mabel, giggling also.
                “You mustn't laugh lower than your chest,” said Kathleen anxiously, “or your
                    green stuff will joggle off.”
                “What do you mean—a meal?” Jimmy asked suspiciously. “What are you sniggering
                    about?”
                “He had a meal. Things to put in his inside,” said Kathleen, still giggling.
                “Oh, be funny if you want to,” said Jimmy, suddenly cross. “We don't want to
                    know—do we, Jerry?”
                “I do,” said Gerald witheringly; “I'm dying to know. Wake me, you
                    girls, when you've finished pretending you're not going to tell.”
                He tilted his hat over his eyes, and lay back in the attitude of slumber.
                “Oh, don't be stupid!” said Kathleen hastily. “It's only that we fed the
                    dinosaurus through the hole in his stomach with the clothes the Ugly-Wuglies
                    were made of!”
                “We can take them home with us, then,” said Gerald, chewing the white end of a
                    grass stalk, “so that's all right.”
                “Look here,” said Kathleen suddenly; “I've got
                    an idea. Let me have the ring a bit. I won't say what the idea is, in case it
                    doesn't come off, and then you'd say I was silly. I'll give it back before we
                    go.”
                “Oh, but you aren't going yet!” said Mabel, pleading. She pulled off the ring.
                    “Of course,” she added earnestly, “I'm only too glad for you to try any idea,
                    however silly it is.”
                Now, Kathleen's idea was quite simple. It was only that perhaps the ring would
                    change its powers if some one else renamed it—some one who was not under the
                    power of its enchantment. So the moment it had passed from the long, pale hand
                    of Mabel to one of her own fat, warm, red paws, she jumped up, crying, “Let's go
                    and empty the dinosaurus now,” and started to run swiftly towards
                    that prehistoric monster. She had a good start. She wanted to say aloud, yet so
                    that the others could not hear her, “This is a wishing-ring. It gives you any
                    wish you choose.” And she did say it. And no one heard her, except the birds and
                    a squirrel or two, and perhaps a stone faun, whose pretty face seemed to turn a
                    laughing look on her as she raced past its pedestal.
                The way was uphill; it was sunny, and Kathleen had run her hardest, though her
                    brothers caught her up before she reached the great black shadow of the
                    dinosaurus. So that when she did reach that shadow she was very hot indeed and
                    not in any state to decide calmly on the best wish to ask for.
                “I'll get up and move the things down, because
                    I know exactly where I put them,” she said.
                Gerald made a back, Jimmy assisted her to climb up, and she disappeared through
                    the hole into the dark inside of the monster. In a moment a shower began to
                    descend from the opening—a shower of empty waistcoats, trousers with wildly
                    waving legs, and coats with sleeves uncontrolled.
                “Heads below!” called Kathleen, and down came walking-sticks and golf-sticks and
                    hockey-sticks and broom-sticks, rattling and chattering to each other as they
                    came.
                “Come on,” said Jimmy.
                “Hold on a bit,” said Gerald. “I'm coming up.” He caught the edge of the hole
                    above in his hands and jumped. Just as he got his shoulders through the opening
                    and his knees on the edge he heard Kathleen's boots on the floor of the
                    dinosaurus's inside, and Kathleen's voice saying:
                “Isn't it jolly cool in here? I suppose statues are always cool. I do wish I was
                    a statue. Oh!”
                The “oh” was a cry of horror and anguish. And it seemed to be cut off very short
                    by a dreadful stony silence.
                “What's up?” Gerald asked. But in his heart he knew. He climbed up into the great
                    hollow. In the little light that came up through the hole he could see something
                    white against the grey of the creature's sides. He felt in his pockets, still
                    kneeling, struck a match, and when the blue of its flame changed to clear yellow
                        he looked up to see what he had known he
                    would see—the face of Kathleen, white, stony, and lifeless. Her hair was white,
                    too, and her hands, clothes, shoes—everything was white, with the hard, cold
                    whiteness of marble. Kathleen had her wish: she was a statue. There was a long
                    moment of perfect stillness in the inside of the dinosaurus. Gerald could not
                    speak. It was too sudden, too terrible. It was worse than anything that had
                    happened yet. Then he turned and spoke down out of that cold, stony silence to
                    Jimmy, in the green, sunny, rustling, live world outside.
                “Jimmy,” he said, in tones perfectly ordinary and matter of fact, “Kathleen's
                    gone and said that ring was a wishing-ring. And so it was, of course. I see now
                    what she was up to, running like that. And then the young duffer went and wished
                    she was a statue.”
                “And is she?” asked Jimmy, below.
                “Come up and have a look,” said Gerald. And Jimmy came, partly with a pull from
                    Gerald and partly with a jump of his own.
                “She's a statue, right enough,” he said, in awestruck tones. “Isn't it
                    awful!”
                “Not at all,” said Gerald firmly. “Come on—let's go and tell Mabel.”
                To Mabel, therefore, who had discreetly remained with her long length screened by
                    rhododendrons, the two boys returned and broke the news. They broke it as one
                    breaks a bottle with a pistol-shot.
                “Oh, my goodness!” said Mabel, and writhed
                     through her long length so that the leaves
                    and fern tumbled off in little showers, and she felt the sun suddenly hot on the
                    backs of her legs. “What next? Oh, my goodness!”
                “She'll come all right,” said Gerald, with outward calm.
                “Yes; but what about me?” Mabel urged. “I haven't got the ring. And
                    my time will be up before hers is. Couldn't you get it back? Can't you get it
                    off her hand? I'd put it back on her hand the very minute I was my right size
                    again—faithfully I would.”
                “Well, it's nothing to blub about,” said Jimmy, answering the sniffs that had
                    served her in this speech for commas and full-stops; “not for you, anyway.”
                “Ah! you don't know,” said Mabel; “you don't know what it is to be as long as I
                    am. Do—do try and get the ring. After all, it is my ring more than any of the
                    rest of yours, anyhow, because I did find it, and I did say it was magic.”
                The sense of justice always present in the breast of Gerald awoke to this
                    appeal.
                “I expect the ring's turned to stone—her boots have, and all her clothes. But
                    I'll go and see. Only if I can't, I can't, and it's no use your making a silly
                    fuss.”
                The first match lighted inside the dinosaurus showed the ring dark on the white
                    hand of the statuesque Kathleen.
                The fingers were stretched straight out. Gerald took hold of the ring, and, to
                    his 
                        sur-
                        surprise
                     prise, it slipped easily off the
                    cold, smooth marble finger.
                “I say, Cathy, old girl, I am sorry,” he said, and gave the marble hand a
                    squeeze. Then it came to him that perhaps she could hear him. So he told the
                    statue exactly what he and the others meant to do. This helped to clear up his
                    ideas as to what he and the others did mean to do. So that when, after thumping
                    the statue hearteningly on its marble back, he returned to the rhododendrons, he
                    was able to give his orders with the clear precision of a born leader, as he
                    later said. And since the others had, neither of them, thought of any plan, his
                    plan was accepted, as the plans of born leaders are apt to be.
                “Here's your precious ring,” he said to Mabel. “Now you're not frightened of
                    anything, are you?”
                “No,” said Mabel, in surprise. “I'd forgotten that. Look here, I'll stay here or
                    farther up in the wood if you'll leave me all the coats, so that I sha'n't be
                    cold in the night. Then I shall be here when Kathleen comes out of the stone
                    again.”
                “Yes,” said Gerald, “that was exactly the born leader's idea.”
                “You two go home and tell Mademoiselle that Kathleen's staying at the Towers. She
                    is.”
                “Yes,” said Jimmy, “she certainly is.”
                “The magic goes in seven-hour lots,” said Gerald; “your invisibility was
                    twenty-one hours, mine fourteen, Eliza's seven. When it was a wishing-ring it began with seven. But there's
                    no knowing what number it will be really. So there's no knowing which of you
                    will come right first. Anyhow, we'll sneak out by the cistern window and come
                    down the trellis, after we've said good-night to Mademoiselle, and come and have
                    a look at you before we go to bed. I think you'd better come close up to the
                    dinosaurs and we'll leaf you over before we go.”
                Mabel crawled into cover of the taller trees, and there stood up looking as
                    slender as a poplar and as unreal as the wrong answer to a sum in long division.
                    It was to her an easy matter to crouch beneath the dinosaurus, to put her head
                    up through the opening, and thus to behold the white form of Kathleen.
                “It's all right, dear,” she told the stone image; “I shall be quite close to you.
                    You call me as soon as you feel you're coming right again.”
                The statue remained motionless, as statues usually do, and Mabel withdrew her
                    head, lay down, was covered up, and left. The boys went home. It was the only
                    reasonable thing to do. It would never have done for Mademoiselle to become
                    anxious and set the police on their track. Every one felt that. The shock of
                    discovering the missing Kathleen, not only in a dinosaurus's stomach, but,
                    further, in a stone statue of herself, might well have unhinged the mind of any
                    constable, to say nothing of the mind of Mademoiselle, which, being foreign,
                     would necessarily be a mind more light and
                    easy to upset. While as for Mabel——
                “Well, to look at her as she is now.” said Gerald, “why, it would send any one
                    off their chump—except us.”
                “We're different,” said Jimmy; “our chumps have had to jolly well get used to
                    things. It would take a lot to upset us now,”
                “Poor old Cathy! all the same,” said Gerald.
                “Yes, of course,” said Jimmy.
                The sun had died away behind the black trees and the moon was rising. Mabel, her
                    preposterous length covered with coats, waistcoats, and trousers laid along it,
                    slept peacefully in the chill of the evening. Inside the dinosaurus Kathleen,
                    alive in her marble, slept too. She had heard Gerald's words—had seen the
                    lighted matches. She was Kathleen just the same as ever, only she was Kathleen
                    in a case of marble that would not let her move. It would not have let her cry,
                    even if she wanted to. But she had not wanted to cry. Inside, the marble was not
                    cold or hard. It seemed, somehow, to be softly lined with warmth and
                    pleasantness and safety. Her back did not ache with stooping. Her limbs were not
                    stiff with the hours that they had stayed moveless. Everything was well—better
                    than well. One had only to wait quietly and quite comfortably and one would come
                    out of this stone case, and once more be the Kathleen one had always been used
                    to being, So she waited happily and calmly,
                    and presently waiting changed to not waiting—to not anything; and, close held in
                    the soft inwardness of the marble, she slept as peacefully and calmly as though
                    she had been lying in her own bed.
                She was awakened by the fact that she was not lying in her own bed—was not,
                    indeed, lying at all—by the fact that she was standing and that her feet had
                    pins and needles in them. Her arms, too, held out in that odd way, were stiff
                    and tired. She rubbed her eyes, yawned, and remembered. She had been a statue, a
                    statue inside the stone dinosaurus.
                “Now I'm alive again,” was her instant conclusion, “and I'll get out of it.”
                She sat down, put her feet through the hole that showed faintly grey in the stone
                    beast's underside, and as she did so a long, slow lurch threw her sideways on
                    the stone where she sat. The dinosaurus was moving!
                “Oh!” said Kathleen inside it, “how dreadful! It must be moonlight,
                    and it's come alive, like Gerald said.”
                It was indeed moving. She could see through the hole the changing surface of
                    grass and bracken and moss as it waddled heavily along. She dared not drop
                    through the hole while it moved, for fear it should crush her to death with its
                    gigantic feet. And with that thought came another: where was Mabel?
                    Somewhere—somewhere near? Suppose one of the great feet planted
                    itself on some part of Mabel's inconvenient length? Mabel being the size she was now it would be quite difficult not
                    to step on some part or other of her, if she should happen to be in one's
                    way—quite difficult, however much one tried. And the dinosaurus would not try.
                    Why should it? Kathleen hung in an agony over the round opening. The huge beast
                    swung from side to side. It was going faster; it was no good, she dared not jump
                    out. Anyhow, they must be quite away from Mabel by now. Faster and faster went
                    the dinosaurus. The floor of its stomach sloped. They were going downhill. Twigs
                    cracked and broke as it pushed through a belt of evergreen oaks; gravel
                    crunched, ground beneath its stony feet. Then stone met stone. There was a
                    pause. A splash! They were close to water—the lake where by moonlight Hermes
                    fluttered and Janus and the dinosaurus swam together. Kathleen dropped swiftly
                    through the hole on to the flat marble that edged the basin, rushed sideways,
                    and stood panting in the shadow of a statue's pedestal. Not a moment too soon,
                    for even as she crouched the monster lizard slipped heavily into the water,
                    drowning a thousand smooth, shining lily pads, and swam away towards the central
                    island.
                “Be still, little lady. I leap!” The voice came from the pedestal, and next
                    moment Phœbus had jumped from the pedestal in his little temple, clearing the
                    steps, and landing a couple of yards away.
                “You are new,” said Phœbus over his graceful
                     shoulder. “I should not have forgotten you if
                    once I had seen you.”
                “I am,” said Kathleen, “quite, quite new. And I didn't know you could talk.”
                “Why not?” Phœbus laughed. “You can talk.”
                “But I'm alive.”
                “Am not I?” he asked.
                “Oh, yes, I suppose so,” said Kathleen, distracted, but not afraid; “only I
                    thought you had to have the ring on before one could even see you move.”
                Phœbus seemed to understand her, which was rather to his credit, for she had
                    certainly not expressed herself with clearness.
                “Ah! that's for mortals,” he said. “We can hear and see each other
                    in the few moments when life is ours. That is a part of the beautiful
                    enchantment.”
                “But I am a mortal,” said Kathleen.
                “You are as modest as you are charming,” said Phœbus Apollo absently; “the white
                    water calls me! I go,” and the next moment rings of liquid silver spread across
                    the lake, widening and widening, from the spot where the white joined hands of
                    the Sun-god had struck the water as he dived. Kathleen turned and went up the
                    hill towards the rhododendron bushes. She must find Mabel, and they must go home
                    at once. If only Mabel was of a size that one could conveniently take home with
                    one! Most likely, at this hour of enchantments, she was. Kathleen, heartened  by the thought, hurried on. She passed
                    through the rhododendron bushes, remembered the pointed painted paper face that
                    had looked out from the glossy leaves, expected to be frightened—and wasn't. She
                    found Mabel easily enough, and much more easily than she would have done had
                    Mabel been as she wished to find her. For quite a long way off, in the
                    moonlight, she could see that long and worm-like form, extended to its full
                    twelve feet—and covered with coats and trousers and waistcoats. Mabel looked
                    like a drain-pipe that has been covered in sacks in frosty weather. Kathleen
                    touched her long cheek gently, and she woke.
                “What's up?” she said sleepily.
                “It's only me,” Kathleen explained.
                “How cold your hands are!” said Mabel.
                “Wake up,” said Kathleen, “and let's talk.”
                “Can't we go home now? I'm awfully tired, and it's so long since tea-time.”
                “You're too long to go home yet,” said Kathleen sadly, and then
                    Mabel remembered.
                She lay with closed eyes—then suddenly she stirred and cried out:—
                “Oh! Cathy, I feel so funny—like one of those horn snakes when you make it go
                    short to get it into its box. I am—yes—I know I am——”
                She was; and Kathleen, watching her, agreed that it was exactly like the
                    shortening of a horn spiral snake between the closing hands of a child. Mabel's
                    distant feet drew near—Mabel's long, lean arms grew shorter—Mabel's face was no
                    longer half a yard long.
                
                “You're coming right—you are! Oh, I am so glad!” cried Kathleen.
                “I know I am,” said Mabel; and as she said it she became once more
                    Mabel, not only in herself. which, of course, she had been all the time, but in
                    her outward appearance.
                “You are all right. Oh, hooray! hooray! I am so glad!” said Kathleen
                    kindly; “and now we'll go home at once, dear.”
                “Go home?” said Mabel, slowly sitting up and staring at Kathleen with her big
                    dark eyes. “Go home—like that?”
                “Like what?” Kathleen asked impatiently.
                “Why, you,” was Mabel's odd reply.
                “I'm all right,” said Kathleen. “Come on.”
                “Do you mean to say you don't know?” said Mabel. “Look at yourself—your
                    hands—your dress—everything.”
                Kathleen looked at her hands. They were of marble whiteness. Her dress, too—her
                    shoes, her stockings, even the ends of her hair. She was white as new-fallen
                    snow.
                “What is it?” she asked, beginning to tremble. “What am I all this horrid colour
                    for?”
                “Don't you see? Oh, Cathy, don't you see? You've not come right.
                    You're a statue still.”
                “I'm not—I'm alive—I'm talking to you.”
                “I know you are, darling,” said Mabel, soothing her as one soothes a fractious
                    child. “That's because it's moonlight.”
                “But you can see I'm alive.”
                “Of course I can. I've got the ring.”
                “But I'm all right; I know I am.”
                
                
                “Don't you see,” said Mabel gently, taking her white marble hand, “you're not all
                    right? It's moonlight, and you're a statue, and you've just come alive with all
                    the other statues. And when the moon goes down you'll just be a statue again.
                        That's the difficulty, dear, about our going home again. You're
                    just a statue still, only you've come alive with the other marble things.
                    Where's the dinosaurus?”
                “In his bath,” said Kathleen, “and so are all the other stone beasts.”
                “Well,” said Mabel, trying to look on the bright side of things, “then we've got
                    one thing, at any rate, to be thankful for!”
            
            
                
                CHAPTER X
                “IF,” said Kathleen, sitting disconsolate in her marble, “if I am really
                    a statue come alive, I wonder you're not afraid of me.”
                “I've got the ring,” said Mabel with decision. “Cheer up, dear! you will soon be
                    better. Try not to think about it.”
                She spoke as you speak to a child that has cut its finger, or fallen down on the
                    garden path, and rises up with grazed knees to which gravel sticks
                    intimately.
                “I know,” Kathleen absently answered.
                “And I've been thinking,” said Mabel brightly, “we might find out a lot about
                    this magic place, if the other statues aren't too proud to talk to us.”
                “They aren't,” Kathleen assured her; “at least, Phœbus wasn't. He was most
                    awfully polite and nice.”
                “Where is he?” Mabel asked.
                “In the lake—he was,” said Kathleen.
                “Then let's go down there,” said Mabel. “Oh, Cathy! it is jolly being your own
                    proper thickness again.” She jumped up, and the withered ferns and branches that
                    had covered her long length and had been
                    gathered closely upon her as she shrank to her proper size fell as forest leaves
                    do when sudden storms tear them. But the white Kathleen did not move.
                The two sat on the grey moonlit grass with the quiet of the night all about them.
                    The great park was still as a painted picture; only the splash of the fountains
                    and the far-off whistle of the Western express broke the silence, which, at the
                    same time, they deepened.
                “What cheer, little sister!” said a voice behind them—a golden voice. They turned
                    quick, startled heads, as birds, surprised, might turn. There in the moonlight
                    stood Phœbus, dripping still from the lake, and smiling at them, very gentle,
                    very friendly.
                “Oh, it's you!” said Kathleen.
                “None other,” said Phœbus cheerfully. “Who is your friend, the earth-child?”
                “This is Mabel,” said Kathleen.
                Mabel got up and bowed, hesitated, and held out a hand.
                “I am your slave, little lady,” said Phœbus, enclosing it in marble fingers. “But
                    I fail to understand how you can see us, and why you do not fear.”
                Mabel held up the hand that wore the ring.
                “Quite sufficient explanation,” said Phœbus; “but since you have that, why retain
                    your mottled earthy appearance? Become a statue, and swim with us in the
                    lake.”
                “I can't swim,” said Mabel evasively.
                
                “Nor yet me,” said Kathleen.
                “You can,” said Phœbus. “All statues that come to life are
                    proficient in all athletic exercises. And you, child of the dark eyes and hair
                    like night, wish yourself a statue and join our revels.”
                “I'd rather not, if you will excuse me,” said Mabel cautiously. “You see... this
                    ring... you wish for things, and you never know how long they're going to last.
                    It would be jolly and all that to be a statue now, but in the
                    morning I should wish I hadn't.”
                “Earth-folk often do, they say,” mused Phœbus. “But, child, you seem ignorant of
                    the powers of your ring. Wish exactly, and the ring will exactly perform. If you
                    give no limit of time, strange enchantments woven by Arithmos the outcast god of
                    numbers will creep in and spoil the spell. Say thus: ‘I wish that till the dawn
                    I may be a statue of living marble, even as my child friend, and that after that
                    time I may be as before, Mabel of the dark eyes and night-coloured hair.’”
                “Oh, yes, do, it would be so jolly!” cried Kathleen. “Do, Mabel! And if we're
                    both statues, shall we be afraid of the dinosaurus?”
                “In the world of living marble fear is not,” said Phœbus. “Are we not brothers,
                    we and the dinosaurus, brethren alike wrought of stone and life?”
                “And could I swim if I did?”
                “Swim, and float, and dive—and with the ladies of Olympus spread the nightly
                    feast, eat of the food of the gods, drink
                    their cup, listen to the song that is undying, and catch the laughter of
                    immortal lips.”
                “A feast!” said Kathleen. “Oh, Mabel, do! You would if you were as hungry as I
                    am.”
                “But it won't be real food,” urged Mabel.
                “It will be real to you, as to us,” said Phœbus; “there is no other realness even
                    in your many-coloured world.”
                Still Mabel hesitated. Then she looked at Kathleen's legs and suddenly said:—
                “Very well, I will. But first I'll take off my shoes and stockings. Marble boots
                    look simply awful—especially the laces. And a marble stocking that's coming
                    down—and mine do!”
                She had pulled off shoes and stockings and pinafore.
                “Mabel has the sense of beauty,” said Phœbus approvingly. “Speak the spell,
                    child, and I will lead you to the ladies of Olympus.”
                Mabel, trembling a little, spoke it, and there were two little live statues in
                    the moonlit glade. Tall Phœbus took a hand of each.
                “Come—run!” he cried. And they ran.
                “Oh—it is jolly!” Mabel panted. “Look at my white feet in the grass! I thought it
                    would feel stiff to be a statue, but it doesn't.”
                “There is no stiffness about the immortals,” laughed the Sun-god. “For to-night
                    you are one of us.”
                And with that they ran down the slope to the lake.
                “Jump!” he cried, and they jumped, and the
                    water splashed up round three white, gleaming shapes.
                “Oh! I can swim!” breathed Kathleen.
                “So can I,” said Mabel.
                “Of course you can,” said Phœbus. “Now three times round the lake, and then make
                    for the island.”
                Side by side the three swam, Phœbus swimming gently to keep pace with the
                    children. Their marble clothes did not seem to interfere at all with their
                    swimming, as your clothes would if you suddenly jumped into the basin of the
                    Trafalgar Square fountains and tried to swim there. And they swam most
                    beautifully, with that perfect ease and absence of effort or tiredness which you
                    must have noticed about your own swimming—in dreams. And it was the most lovely
                    place to swim in; the water-lilies, whose long, snaky stalks are so inconvenient
                    to ordinary swimmers, did not in the least interfere with the movements of
                    marble arms and legs. The moon was high in the clear sky-dome. The weeping
                    willows, cypresses, temples, terraces, banks of trees and shrubs, and the
                    wonderful old house, all added to the romantic charm of the scene.
                “This is the nicest thing the ring has brought us yet,” said Mabel, through a
                    languid but perfect side-stroke.
                “I thought you'd enjoy it,” said Phœbus kindly; “now once more round, and then
                    the island.”
                They landed on the island amid a fringe of
                     rushes, yarrow, willow-herb, loose-strife,
                    and a few late, scented, powdery, creamy heads of meadow-sweet. The island was
                    bigger than it looked from the bank, and it seemed covered with trees and
                    shrubs. But when, Phœbus leading the way, they went into the shadow of these,
                    they perceived that beyond the trees lay a light, much nearer to them than the
                    other side of the island could possibly be. And almost at once they were through
                    the belt of trees, and could see where the light came from. The trees they had
                    just passed among made a dark circle round a big cleared space, standing up
                    thick and dark, like a crowd round a football field, as Kathleen remarked.
                First came a wide, smooth ring of lawn, then marble steps going down to a round
                    pool, where there were no water-lilies, only gold and silver fish that darted
                    here and there like flashes of quicksilver and dark flames. And the enclosed
                    space of water and marble and grass was lighted with a clear, white, radiant
                    light, seven times stronger than the whitest moonlight, and in the still waters
                    of the pool seven moons lay reflected. One could see that they were only
                    reflections by the way their shape broke and changed as the gold and silver fish
                    rippled the water with moving fin and tail that steered.
                The girls looked up at the sky, almost expecting to see seven moons there. But
                    no, the old moon shone alone, as she had always shone on them.
                
                “There are seven moons,” said Mabel blankly, and pointed, which is not
                    manners.
                “Of course,” said Phœbus kindly; “everything in our world is seven times as much
                    so as in yours.”
                “But there aren't seven of you,” said Mabel.
                “No, but I am seven times as much,” said the Sun God. “You see, there's numbers,
                    and there's quantity, to say nothing of quality. You see that, I'm sure.”
                “Not quite,” said Kathleen.
                “Explanations always weary me,” Phœbus interrupted. “Shall we join the
                    ladies?”
                On the further side of the pool was a large group, so white, that it seemed to
                    make a great white hole in the trees. Some twenty or thirty figures there were
                    in the group—all statues and all alive. Some were dipping their white feet among
                    the gold and silver fish, and sending ripples across the faces of the seven
                    moons. Some were pelting each other with roses—roses so sweet that the girls
                    could smell them even across the pool. Others were holding hands and dancing in
                    a ring, and two were sitting on the steps playing cat's-cradle—which is a very
                    ancient game indeed—with a thread of white marble.
                As the new-comers advanced a shout of greeting and gay laughter went up.
                “Late again, Phœbus!” some one called out. And another: “Did one of your horses
                    cast a shoe?” And yet another called out something about laurels.
                
                “I bring two guests,” said Phœbus, and instantly the statues crowded round,
                    stroking the girls' hair, patting their cheeks, and calling them the prettiest
                    love-names.
                “Are the wreaths ready, Hebe?” the tallest and most splendid of the ladies called
                    out. “Make two more!”
                And almost directly Hebe came down the steps, her round arms hung thick with
                    rose-wreaths. There was one for each marble head.
                Every one now looked seven times more beautiful than before, which, in the case
                    of the gods and goddesses, is saying a good deal. The children remembered how at
                    the raspberry vinegar feast Mademoiselle had said that gods and goddesses always
                    wore wreaths for meals.
                Hebe herself arranged the roses on the girls' heads—and Aphrodite Urania, the
                    dearest lady in the world, with a voice like mother's at those moments when you
                    love her most, took them by the hands and said:—
                “Come, we must get the feast ready. Eros—Psyche—Hebe—Ganymede—all you young
                    people can arrange the fruit.”
                “I don't see any fruit,” said Kathleen, as four slender forms disengaged
                    themselves from the white crowd and came toward them.
                “You will though,” said Eros, a really nice boy, as the girls instantly agreed;
                    “you've only got to pick it.”
                “Like this,” said Psyche, lifting her marble arms to a willow branch. She reached
                    out her hand to the children—it held a ripe
                    pomegranate.
                “I see,” said Mabel. “You just——” She laid her fingers to the willow branch and
                    the firm softness of a big peach was within them.
                “Yes, just that,” laughed Psyche, who was a darling, as any one could see.
                After this Hebe gathered a few silver baskets from a convenient alder, and the
                    four picked fruit industriously. Meanwhile the elder statues were busy plucking
                    golden goblets and jugs and dishes from the branches of ash-trees and young oaks
                    and filling them with everything nice to eat and drink that any one could
                    possibly want, and these were spread on the steps. It was a celestial picnic.
                    Then everyone sat or lay down and the feast began. And oh! the taste of the food
                    served on those dishes, the sweet wonder of the drink that melted from those
                    gold cups on the white lips of the company! And the fruit—there is no fruit like
                    it grown on earth, just as there is no laughter like the laughter of those lips,
                    no songs like the songs that stirred the silence of that night of wonder.
                “Oh!” cried Kathleen, and through her fingers the juice of her third peach fell
                    like tears on the marble steps. “I do wish the boys were here!”
                “I do wonder what they're doing,” said Mabel.
                “At this moment,” said Hermes, who had just made a wide ring of flight, as a
                    pigeon does,
                     and come back into the circle—“at this moment
                    they are wandering desolately near the home of the dinosaurus, having escaped
                    from their home by a window, in search of you. They fear that you have perished,
                    and they would weep if they did not know that tears do not become a man, however
                    youthful.”
                Kathleen stood up and brushed the crumbs of ambrosia from her marble lap.
                “Thank you all very much,” she said. “It was very kind of you to have us, and
                    we've enjoyed ourselves very much, but I think we ought to go now, please.”
                “If it is anxiety about your brothers,” said Phœbus obligingly, “it is the
                    easiest thing in the world for them to join you. Lend me your ring a
                    moment.”
                He took it from Kathleen's half-reluctant hand, dipped it in the reflection of
                    one of the seven moons, and gave it back. She clutched it. “Now,” said the
                    Sun-god, “wish for them that which Mabel wished for herself. Say——”
                “I know,” Kathleen interrupted. “I wish that the boys may be statues of living
                    marble like Mabel and me till dawn, and afterwards be like they are now.”
                “If you hadn't interrupted,” said Phœbus—“but there, we can't expect old heads on
                    shoulders of young marble. You should have wished them here—and—but
                    no matter. Hermes, old chap, cut across and fetch them, and explain things as
                    you come.”
                He dipped the ring again in one of the
                    reflected moons before he gave it back to Kathleen.
                “There,” he said, “now it's washed clean ready for the next magic.”
                “It is not our custom to question guests,” said Hera the queen, turning her great
                    eyes on the children; “but that ring excites, I am sure, the interest of us
                    all.”
                “It is the ring,” said Phœbus.
                “That, of course,” said Hera; “but if it were not inhospitable to ask questions I
                    should ask, How came it into the hands of these earth-children?”
                “That,” said Phœbus, “is a long tale. After the feast the story, and after the
                    story the song.”
                Hermes seemed to have “explained everything” quite fully; for when Gerald and
                    Jimmy in marble whiteness arrived, each clinging to one of the god's winged
                    feet, and so borne through the air, they were certainly quite at ease. They made
                    their best bows to the goddesses and took their places as unembarrassed as
                    though they had had Olympian suppers every night of their lives. Hebe had woven
                    wreaths of roses ready for them, and as Kathleen watched them eating and
                    drinking, perfectly at home in their marble, she was very glad that amid the
                    welling springs of immortal peach-juice she had not forgotten her brothers.
                “And now,” said Hera, when the boys had been supplied with everything they could
                    possibly desire, and more than they could eat—“now for the story.”
                
                “Yes,” said Mabel intensely; and Kathleen said, “Oh yes; now for the
                    story. How splendid!”
                “The story,” said Phœbus unexpectedly, “will be told by our guests.”
                “Oh no!” said Kathleen, shrinking.
                “The lads, maybe, are bolder,” said Zeus the king, taking off his rose-wreath,
                    which was a little tight, and rubbing his compressed ears.
                “I really can't,” said Gerald; “besides, I don't know any stories.”
                “Nor yet me,” said Jimmy.
                “It's the story of how we got the ring that they want,” said Mabel in a hurry.
                    “I'll tell it if you like. Once upon a time there was a little girl called
                    Mabel,” she added yet more hastily, and went on with the tale—all the tale of
                    the enchanted castle, or almost all, that you have read in these pages. The
                    marble Olympians listened enchanted—almost as enchanted as the castle itself,
                    and the soft moonlit moments fell past like pearls dropping into a deep
                    pool.
                “And so,” Mabel ended abruptly, “Kathleen wished for the boys and the Lord Hermes
                    fetched them and here we all are.”
                A burst of interested comment and question blossomed out round the end of the
                    story, suddenly broken off short by Mabel.
                “But,” said she, brushing it aside, as it grew thinner, “now we want
                        you to tell us.”
                “To tell you——?”
                “How you come to be alive, and how you know
                    about the ring—and everything you do know.”
                “Everything I know?” Phœbus laughed—it was to him that she had spoken—and not his
                    lips only but all the white lips curled in laughter. “The span of your life, my
                    earth-child, would not contain the words I should speak, to tell you all I
                    know.”
                “Well, about the ring anyhow, and how you come alive,” said Gerald; “you see,
                    it's very puzzling to us.”
                “Tell them, Phœbus,” said the dearest lady in the world; “don't tease the
                    children.”
                So Phœbus, leaning back against a heap of leopard-skins that Dionysus had
                    lavishly plucked from a spruce fir, told.
                “All statues,” he said, “can come alive when the moon shines, if they so choose.
                    But statues that are placed in ugly cities do not choose. Why should they weary
                    themselves with the contemplation of the hideous?”
                “Quite so,” said Gerald politely, to fill the pause.
                “In your beautiful temples,” the Sun-god went on, “the images of your priests and
                    of your warriors who lie cross-legged on their tombs come alive and walk in
                    their marble about their temples, and through the woods and fields. But only on
                    one night in all the year can any see them. You have beheld us because you held
                    the ring, and are of one brotherhood with us in your marble, but on that one
                    night all may behold us.”
                
                “And when is that?” Gerald asked, again polite, in a pause.
                “At the festival of the harvest,” said Phœbus. “On that night as the moon rises
                    it strikes one beam of perfect light on to the altar in certain temples. One of
                    these temples is in Hellas, buried under the fall of a mountain which Zeus,
                    being angry, hurled down upon it. One is in this land; it is in this great
                    garden.”
                “Then,” said Gerald, much interested, “if we were to come up to that temple on
                    that night, we could see you, even without being statues or having the
                    ring?”
                “Even so,” said Phœbus. “More, any question asked by a mortal we are on that
                    night bound to answer.”
                “And the night is—when?”
                “Ah!” said Phœbus, and laughed. “Wouldn't you like to know!”
                Then the great marble King of the Gods yawned, stroked his long beard, and said:
                    “Enough of stories, Phœbus. Tune your lyre.”
                “But the ring,” said Mabel in a whisper, as the Sun-god tuned the white strings
                    of a sort of marble harp that lay at his feet—“about how you know all about the
                    ring?”
                “Presently,” the Sun-god whispered back. “Zeus must be obeyed; but ask me again
                    before dawn, and I will tell you all I know of it.” Mabel drew back, and leaned
                    against the comfortable knees of one Demeter—Kathleen and Psyche sat holding
                    hands. Gerald and Jimmy lay at full length, chins on elbows, gazing at the
                        Sun-god; and even as he held the lyre,
                    before ever his fingers began to sweep the strings, the spirit of music hung in
                    the air, enchanting, enslaving, silencing all thought but the thought of itself,
                    all desire but the desire to listen to it.
                Then Phœbus struck the strings and softly plucked melody from them, and all the
                    beautiful dreams of all the world came fluttering close with wings like doves'
                    wings; and all the lovely thoughts that sometimes hover near, but not so near
                    that you can catch them, now came home as to their nests in the hearts of those
                    who listened. And those who listened forgot time and space, and how to be sad,
                    and how to be naughty, and it seemed that the whole world lay like a magic apple
                    in the hand of each listener, and that the whole world was good and
                    beautiful.
                And then, suddenly, the spell was shattered. Phœbus struck a broken chord,
                    followed by an instant of silence; then he sprang up, crying, “The dawn! the
                    dawn! To your pedestals, O gods!”
                In an instant the whole crowd of beautiful marble people had leaped to its feet,
                    had rushed through the belt of wood that cracked and rustled as they went, and
                    the children heard them splash in the water beyond. They heard, too, the
                    gurgling breathing of a great beast, and knew that the dinosaurus, too, was
                    returning to his own place.
                Only Hermes had time, since one flies more swiftly than one swims, to hover above
                        them for one moment, and to whisper with a
                    mischievous laugh:—
                “In fourteen days from now, at the Temple of Strange Stones.”
                “What's the secret of the ring?” gasped Mabel.
                “The ring is the heart of the magic,” said Hermes. “Ask at the moonrise on the
                    fourteenth day, and you shall know all.”
                With that he waved the snowy caduceus and rose in the air supported by his winged
                    feet. And as he went the seven reflected moons died out and a chill wind began
                    to blow, a grey light grew and grew, the birds stirred and twittered, and the
                    marble slipped away from the children like a skin that shrivels in fire, and
                    they were statues no more, but flesh and blood children as they used to be,
                    standing knee-deep in brambles and long coarse grass. There was no smooth lawn,
                    no marble steps, no seven-mooned fish-pond. The dew lay thick on the grass and
                    the brambles, and it was very cold.
                “We ought to have gone with them,” said Mabel with chattering teeth. “We can't
                    swim now we're not marble. And I suppose this is the island?”
                It was—and they couldn't swim.
                They knew it. One always knows those sort of things somehow without trying. For
                    instance, you know perfectly that you can't fly. There are some things that
                    there is no mistake about.
                The dawn grew brighter and the outlook more black every moment.
                
                “There isn't a boat, I suppose?” Jimmy asked.
                “No,” said Mabel, “not on this side of the lake; there's one in the boat-house,
                    of course—if you could swim there.”
                “You know I can't,” said Jimmy.
                “Can't any one think of anything?” Gerald asked, shivering.
                “When they find we've disappeared they'll drag all the water for miles round,”
                    said Jimmy hopefully, “in case we've fallen in and sunk to the bottom. When they
                    come to drag this we can yell and be rescued.”
                “Yes, dear, that will be nice,” was Gerald's bitter comment.
                “Don't be so disagreeable,” said Mabel with a tone so strangely cheerful that the
                    rest stared at her in amazement.
                “The ring,” she said. “Of course we've only got to wish ourselves home with it.
                    Plœbus washed it in the moon ready for the next wish.”
                “You didn't tell as about that,” said Gerald in accents of perfect good temper.
                    “Never mind. Where is the ring?”
                “You had it,” Mabel reminded Kathleen.
                “I know I had,” said that child in stricken tones, “but I gave it to Psyche to
                    look at—and—and she's got it on her finger!”
                Every one tried not to be angry with Kathleen. All partly succeeded.
                “If we ever get off this beastly island,” said Gerald, “I suppose you can find
                    Psyche's statue and get it off again?”
                “No I can't,” Mabel moaned. “I don't know where
                    the statue is. I've never seen it. It may be in Hellas, wherever that is—or
                    anywhere, for anything I know.”
                No one had anything kind to say, and it is pleasant to record that nobody said
                    anything. And now it was grey daylight, and the sky to the north was flushing in
                    pale pink and lavender.
                The boys stood moodily, hands in pockets. Mabel and Kathleen seemed to find it
                    impossible not to cling together, and all about their legs the long grass was
                    icy with dew.
                A faint sniff and a caught breath broke the silence.
                “Now, look here,” said Gerald briskly, “I won't have it. Do you hear?
                    Snivelling's no good at all. No, I'm not a pig. It's for your own good. Let's
                    make a tour of the island. Perhaps there's a boat hidden somewhere among the
                    overhanging boughs.”
                “How could there be?” Mabel asked.
                “Some one might have left it there, I suppose,” said Gerald.
                “But how would they have got off the island?”
                “In another boat, of course,” said Gerald; “come on.”
                Downheartedly, and quite sure that there wasn't and couldn't be any boat, the
                    four children started to explore the island. How often each one of them had
                    dreamed of islands, how often wished to be stranded on one! Well, now they were.
                    Reality is sometimes quite different from
                    dreams, and not half so nice. It was worst of all for Mabel, whose shoes and
                    stockings were far away on the mainland. The coarse grass and brambles were very
                    cruel to bare legs and feet.
                They stumbled through the wood to the edge of the water, but it was impossible to
                    keep close to the edge of the island, the branches grew too thickly. There was a
                    narrow, grassy path that wound in and out among the trees, and this they
                    followed, dejected and mournful. Every moment made it less possible for them to
                    hope to get back to the school-house unnoticed. And if they were missed and beds
                    found in their present unslept-in state—well, there would be a row of some sort,
                    and, as Gerald said, “Farewell to liberty!”
                “Of course we can get off all right,” said Gerald. “Just all shout when we see a
                    gardener or a keeper on the mainland. But if we do, concealment is at an end and
                    all is absolutely up!”
                “Yes,” said everyone gloomily.
                “Come, buck up!” said Gerald, the spirit of the born general beginning to
                    reawaken in him. “We shall get out of this scrape all right, as we've got out of
                    others; you know we shall. See, the sun's coming out. You feel all right and
                    jolly now, don't you?”
                “Yes, oh yes!” said everyone, in tones of unmixed misery.
                The sun was now risen, and through a deep cleft in the hills it sent a strong
                    shaft of light straight at the island. The
                    yellow light, almost level, struck through the stems of the trees and dazzled
                    the children's eyes. This, with the fact that he was not looking where he was
                    going, as Jimmy did not fail to point out later, was enough to account for what
                    now happened to Gerald, who was leading the melancholy little procession. He
                    stumbled, clutched at a tree-trunk, missed his clutch, and disappeared, with a
                    yell and a clatter; and Mabel, who came next, only pulled herself up just in
                    time not to fall down a steep flight of moss-grown steps that seemed to open
                    suddenly in the ground at her feet.
                “Oh, Gerald!” she called down the steps; “are you hurt?”
                “No,” said Gerald, out of sight and crossly, for he was hurt, rather
                    severely; “it's steps, and there's a passage.”
                “There always is,” said Jimmy.
                “I knew there was a passage,” said Mabel; “it goes under the water and comes out
                    at the Temple of Flora. Even the gardeners know that, but they won't go down,
                    for fear of snakes.”
                “Then we can get out that way—I do think you might have said so,” Gerald's voice
                    came up to say.
                “I didn't think of it,” said Mabel. “At least—— And I suppose it goes past the
                    place where the Ugly-Wugly found its good hotel.”
                “I'm not going,” said Kathleen positively, “not in the dark, I'm not. So I tell
                    you!”
                
                “Very well, baby,” said Gerald sternly, and his head appeared from below very
                    suddenly through interlacing brambles. “No one asked you to go in the dark.
                    We'll leave you here if you like, and return and rescue you with a boat. Jimmy,
                    the bicycle lamp!” He reached up a hand for it.
                Jimmy produced from his bosom, the place where lamps are always kept in fairy
                    stories—see Aladdin and others—a bicycle lamp.
                “We brought it,” he explained, “so as not to break our shins over bits of long
                    Mabel among the rhododendrons.”
                “Now,” said Gerald very firmly, striking a match and opening the thick, rounded
                    glass front of the bicycle lamp, “I don't know what the rest of you are going to
                    do, but I'm going down these steps and along this passage. If we find the good
                    hotel—well, a good hotel never hurt any one yet.”
                “It's no good, you know,” said Jimmy weakly; “you know jolly well you can't get
                    out of that Temple of Flora door, even if you get to it.”
                “I don't know,” said Gerald, still brisk and commander-like;
                    “there's a secret spring inside that door most likely. We hadn't a lamp last
                    time to look for it, remember.”
                “If there's one thing I do hate it's undergroundness,” said Mabel.
                “You're not a coward,” said Gerald, with what is known as diplomacy.
                        “You're brave, Mabel. Don't I know it! You hold Jimmy's hand
                    and I'll hold Cathy's. Now then.”
                
                “I won't have my hand held,” said Jimmy, of course. “I'm not a
                    kid.”
                “Well, Cathy will. Poor little Cathy! Nice brother Jerry'll hold poor Cathy's
                    hand.”
                Gerald's bitter sarcasm missed fire here, for Cathy gratefully caught the hand he
                    held out in mockery. She was too miserable to read his mood, as she mostly did.
                    “Oh, thank you, Jerry dear,” she said gratefully; “you are a dear,
                    and I will try not to be frightened.” And for quite a minute Gerald
                    shamedly felt that he had not been quite, quite kind.
                So now, leaving the growing goldness of the sunrise, the four went down the stone
                    steps that led to the underground and underwater passage, and everything seemed
                    to grow dark and then to grow into a poor pretence of light again, as the
                    splendour of dawn gave place to the small dogged lighting of the bicycle lamp.
                    The steps did indeed lead to a passage, the beginnings of it choked with the
                    drifted dead leaves of many old autumns. But presently the passage took a turn,
                    there were more steps, down, down, and then the passage was empty and
                    straight—lined above and below and on each side with slabs of marble, very clear
                    and clean. Gerald held Cathy's hand with more of kindness and less of
                    exasperation than he had supposed possible.
                And Cathy, on her part, was surprised to find it possible to be so much less
                    frightened than she expected.
                The flame of the 
                        bull'seye
                        bull's-eye
                     threw ahead a soft circle of misty
                    light—the children followed it silently. Till, silently and suddenly, the light
                    of the bull's-eye behaved as the flame of a candle does when you take it out
                    into the sunlight to light a bonfire, or explode a train of gunpowder, or what
                    not. Because now, with feelings mixed indeed, of wonder, and interest, and awe,
                    but no fear, the children found themselves in a great hall, whose arched roof
                    was held up by two rows of round pillars, and whose every corner was filled with
                    a soft, searching, lovely light, filling every cranny, as water fills the rocky
                    secrecies of hidden sea-caves.
                “How beautiful!” Kathleen whispered, breathing hard into the tickled ear of her
                    brother, and Mabel caught the hand of Jimmy and whispered, “I must hold your
                    hand—I must hold on to something silly, or I shan't believe it's real.”
                For this hall in which the children found themselves was the most beautiful place
                    in the world. I won't describe it, because it does not look the same to any two
                    people, and you wouldn't understand me if I tried to tell you how it looked to
                    any one of these four. But to each it seemed the most perfect thing possible. I
                    will only say that all round it were great arches. Kathleen saw them as Moorish,
                    Mabel as Tudor, Gerald as Norman, and Jimmy as Churchwarden Gothic. (If you
                    don't know what these are, ask your uncle who collects brasses, and he will
                    explain, or perhaps Mr. Millar will draw the different kinds of arches for you.) And through these arches one could
                    see many things—oh! but many things. Through one appeared an olive garden, and
                    in it two lovers who held each other's hands, under an Italian moon; through
                    another a wild sea, and a ship to whom the wild, racing sea was slave. A third
                    showed a king on his throne, his courtiers obsequious about him; and yet a
                    fourth showed a really good hotel, with the respectable Ugly-Wugly sunning
                    himself on the front doorsteps. There was a mother, bending over a wooden
                    cradle. There was an artist gazing entranced on the picture his wet brush seemed
                    to have that moment completed, a general dying on a field where Victory had
                    planted the standard he loved, and these things were not pictures, but the
                    truest truths, alive, and, as any one could see, immortal.
                Many other pictures there were that these arches framed. And all showed some
                    moment when life had sprung to fire and flower—the best that the soul of man
                    could ask or man's destiny grant. And the really good hotel had its place here
                    too, because there are some souls that ask no higher thing of life than “a
                    really good hotel.”
                “Oh, I am glad we came; I am, I am!” Kathleen murmured, and held fast to her
                    brother's hand.
                They went slowly up the hall, the ineffectual 
                        bull'seye
                        bull's-eye
                     , held by Jimmy, very crooked indeed, showing almost as a shadow in
                    this big, glorious light.
                
                And then, when the hall's end was almost reached, the children saw where the
                    light came from. It glowed and spread itself from one place, and in that place
                    stood the one statue that Mabel “did not know where to find”—the statue of
                    Psyche. They went on, slowly, quite happy, quite bewildered. And when they came
                    close to Psyche they saw that on her raised hand the ring showed dark.
                Gerald let go Kathleen's hand, put his foot on the pediment, his knee on the
                    pedestal. He stood up, dark and human, beside the white girl with the butterfly
                    wings.
                “I do hope you don't mind,” he said, and drew the ring off very gently. Then, as
                    he dropped to the ground, “Not here,” he said. “I don't know why, but not
                    here.”
                And they all passed behind the white Psyche, and once more the bicycle lamp
                    seemed suddenly to come to life again as Gerald held it in front of him, to be
                    the pioneer in the dark passage that led from the Hall of ——, but they did not
                    know, then, what it was the Hall of.
                Then, as the twisting passage shut in on them with a darkness that pressed close
                    against the little light of the bicycle lamp, Kathleen said, “Give me the ring.
                    I know exactly what to say.”
                Gerald gave it with not extreme readiness. “I wish,” said Kathleen slowly, “that
                    no one at home may know that we've been out to-night, and I wish we were safe in
                    our own beds, undressed, and in our nightgowns, and asleep.”
                
                And the next thing any of them knew, it was good, strong, ordinary daylight—not
                    just sunrise, but the kind of daylight you are used to being called in, and all
                    were in their own beds. Kathleen had framed the wish most sensibly. The only
                    mistake had been in saying “in our own beds,” because, of course, Mabel's own
                    bed was at Yalding Towers, and to this day Mabel's drab-haired aunt cannot
                    understand how Mabel, who was staying the night with that child in the town she
                    was so taken up with, hadn't come home at eleven, when the aunt locked up, and
                    yet she was in her bed in the morning. For though not a clever woman, she was
                    not stupid enough to be able to believe any one of the eleven fancy explanations
                    which the distracted Mabel offered in the course of the morning. The first
                    (which makes twelve) of these explanations was The Truth, and of course the aunt
                    was far too clever to believe That!
            
            
                
                CHAPTER XI
                IT was show-day at Yalding Castle, and it seemed good to the children to
                    go and visit Mabel, and, as Gerald put it, to mingle unsuspected with the crowd;
                    to gloat over all the things which they knew and which the crowd didn't know
                    about the castle and the sliding panels, the magic ring and the statues that
                    came alive. Perhaps one of the pleasantest things about magic happenings is the
                    feeling which they give you of knowing what other people not only don't know but
                    wouldn't, so to speak, believe if they did.
                On the white road outside the gates of the castle was a dark spattering of breaks
                    and wagonettes and dog-carts. Three or four waiting motor-cars puffed fatly
                    where they stood, and bicycles sprawled in heaps along the grassy hollow by the
                    red brick wall. And the people who had been brought to the castle by the breaks
                    and wagonettes, and dog-carts and bicycles and motors, as well as those who had
                    walked there on their own unaided feet, were scattered about the grounds, or
                    being shown over those parts of the castle which were, on this one day of the
                    week, thrown open to visitors.
                
                There were more visitors than usual to-day because it had somehow been whispered
                    about that Lord Yalding was down, and that the holland covers were to be taken
                    off the state furniture, so that a rich American who wished to rent the castle,
                    to live in, might see the place in all its glory.
                It certainly did look very splendid. The embroidered satin, gilded leather and
                    tapestry of the chairs, which had been hidden by brown holland, gave to the
                    rooms a pleasant air of being lived in. There were flowering plants and pots of
                    roses here and there on tables or window-ledges. Mabel's aunt prided herself on
                    her tasteful touch in the home, and had studied the arrangement of flowers in a
                    series of articles in Home Drivel called “How to Make Home
                    High-class on Ninepence a Week.”
                The great crystal chandeliers, released from the bags that at ordinary times
                    shrouded them, gleamed with grey and purple splendour. The brown linen sheets
                    had been taken off the state beds, and the red ropes that usually kept the low
                    crowd in its proper place had been rolled up and hidden away.
                “It's exactly as if we were calling on the family,” said the grocer's daughter
                    from Salisbury to her friend who was in the millinery.
                “If the Yankee doesn't take it, what do you say to you and me setting up here
                    when we get spliced?” the draper's assistant asked his sweetheart. And she said:
                    “Oh, Reggie, how can you! you are too funny.”
                
                All the afternoon the crowd in its smart holiday clothes, pink blouses, and
                    light-coloured suits, flowery hats, and scarves beyond description passed
                    through and through the dark hall, the magnificent drawing-rooms and boudoirs
                    and picture-galleries. The chattering crowd was awed into something like quiet
                    by the calm, stately bedchambers, where men had been born, and died; where royal
                    guests had lain in long-ago summer nights, with big bow-pots of elder-flowers
                    set on the hearth to ward off fever and evil spells. The terrace, where in old
                    days dames in ruffs had sniffed the sweetbrier and southernwood of the borders
                    below, and ladies, bright with rouge and powder and brocade, had walked in the
                    swing of their hooped skirts—the terrace now echoed to the sound of brown boots,
                    and the tap-tap of high-heeled shoes at two and eleven three, and high laughter
                    and chattering voices that said nothing that the children wanted to hear. These
                    spoiled for them the quiet of the enchanted castle, and outraged the peace of
                    the garden of enchantments.
                “It isn't such a lark after all,” Gerald admitted, as from the window of the
                    stone summer-house at the end of the terrace they watched the loud colours and
                    heard the loud laughter. “I do hate to see all these people in our
                    garden.”
                “I said that to that nice bailiff-man this morning,” said Mabel, setting herself
                    on the stone floor, “and he said it wasn't much to let them come once a week. He said Lord Yalding ought to
                    let them come when they liked—said he would if he lived there.”
                “That's all he knows!” said Jimmy. “Did he say anything else?”
                “Lots,” said Mabel. “I do like him! I told him——”
                “You didn't!”
                “Yes. I told him lots about our adventures. The humble bailiff is a beautiful
                    listener.”
                “We shall be locked up for beautiful lunatics if you let your jaw get the better
                    of you, my Mabel child.”
                “Not us!” said Mabel. “I told it—you know the way—every word true, and yet so
                    that nobody believes any of it. When I'd quite done he said I'd got a real
                    littery talent, and I promised to put his name on the beginning of the first
                    book I write when I grow up.”
                “You don't know his name,” said Kathleen. “Let's do something with the ring.”
                “Imposs!” said Gerald. “I forgot to tell you, but I met Mademoiselle when I went
                    back for my garters—and she's coming to meet us and walk back with us.”
                “What did you say?”
                “I said,” said Gerald deliberately, “that it was very kind of her. And so it was.
                    Us not wanting her doesn't make it not kind her coming——”
                “It may be kind, but it's sickening too,” said Mabel, “because now I suppose we
                    shall have to stick here and wait for her; and I promised we'd meet the bailiff-man. He's going to bring things
                    in a basket and have a picnic-tea with us.”
                “Where?”
                “Beyond the dinosaurus. He said he'd tell me all about the anteddy-something
                    animals—it means before Noah's Ark; there are lots besides the dinosaurus—in
                    return for me telling him my agreeable fictions. Yes, he called them that.”
                “When?”
                “As soon as the gates shut. That's five.”
                “We might take Mademoiselle along,” suggested Gerald.
                “She'd be too proud to have tea with a bailiff, I expect; you never know how
                    grown-ups will take the simplest things.” It was Kathleen who said this.
                “Well, I'll tell you what,” said Gerald, lazily turning on the stone bench. “You
                    all go along, and meet your bailiff. A picnic's a picnic. And I'll wait for
                    Mademoiselle.”
                Mabel remarked joyously that this was jolly decent of Gerald, to which he
                    modestly replied: “Oh, rot!”
                Jimmy added that Gerald rather liked sucking-up to people.
                “Little boys don't understand diplomacy,” said Gerald calmly; “sucking-up is
                    simply silly. But it's better to be good than pretty and——”
                “How do you know?” Jimmy asked.
                “And,” his brother went on, “you never know when a grown-up may come in useful.
                        Besides, they like it. You
                    must give them some little pleasures. Think how awful it must be to
                    be old. My hat!”
                “I hope I shan't be an old maid,” said Kathleen.
                “I don't mean to be,” said Mabel briskly. “I'd rather marry a
                    travelling tinker.”
                “It would be rather nice,” Kathleen mused, “to marry the Gipsy King and go about
                    in a caravan telling fortunes and hung round with baskets and brooms.”
                “Oh, if I could choose,” said Mabel, “of course I'd marry a brigand, and live in
                    his mountain fastnesses, and be kind to his captives and help them to escape
                    and——”
                “You'll be a real treasure to your husband,” said Gerald.
                “Yes,” said Kathleen, “or a sailor would be nice. You'd watch for his ship coming
                    home and set the lamp in the dormer window to light him home through the storm;
                    and when he was drowned at sea you'd be most frightfully sorry, and go every day
                    to lay flowers on his daisied grave.”
                “Yes,” Mabel hastened to say, “or a soldier, and then you'd go to the wars with
                    short petticoats and a cocked hat and a barrel round your neck like a St.
                    Bernard dog. There's a picture of a soldier's wife on a song auntie's got. It's
                    called ‘The Veevandyear.’”
                “When I marry——” Kathleen quickly said.
                “When I marry,” said Gerald, “I'll marry a dumb girl, or else get
                    the ring to make her so that she can't speak
                    unless she's spoken to. Let's have a squint.”
                He applied his eye to the stone lattice.
                “They're moving off,” he said. “Those pink and purple hats are nodding off in the
                    distant prospect; and the funny little man with the beard like a goat is going a
                    different way from every one else—the gardeners will have to head him off. I
                    don't see Mademoiselle, though. The rest of you had better bunk. It doesn't do
                    to run any risks with picnics. The deserted hero of our tale, alone and
                    unsupported, urged on his brave followers to pursue the commissariat waggons, he
                    himself remaining at the post of danger and difficulty, because he was born to
                    stand on burning decks whence all but he had fled, and to lead forlorn hopes
                    when despaired of by the human race!”
                “I think I'll marry a dumb husband,” said Mabel, “and there shan't be any heroes
                    in my books when I write them, only a heroine. Come on, Cathy.”
                Coming out of that cool, shadowy summer-house into the sunshine was like stepping
                    into an oven, and the stone of the terrace was burning to the children's
                    feet.
                “I know now what a cat on hot bricks feels like,” said Jimmy.
                The antediluvian animals are set in a beech-wood on a slope at least half a mile
                    across the park from the castle. The grandfather of the present Lord Yalding had
                    them set there in the middle of last century, in the great days of the late Prince Consort, the Exhibition of 1851,
                    Sir Joseph Paxton, and the Crystal Palace. Their stone flanks, their wide,
                    ungainly wings, their lozenged crocodile-like backs show grey through the trees
                    a long way off.
                Most people think that noon is the hottest time of the day. They are wrong. A
                    cloudless sky gets hotter and hotter all the afternoon, and reaches its very
                    hottest at five. I am sure you must all have noticed this when you are going out
                    to tea anywhere in your best clothes, especially if your clothes are starched
                    and you happen to have a rather long and shadeless walk.
                Kathleen, Mabel, and Jimmy got hotter and hotter, and went more and more slowly.
                    They had almost reached that stage of resentment and discomfort when one “wishes
                    one hadn't come” before they saw, below the edge of the beech-wood, the white
                    waved handkerchief of the bailiff.
                That banner, eloquent of tea, shade, and being able to sit down, put new heart
                    into them. They mended their pace, and a final desperate run landed them among
                    the drifted coppery leaves and bare grey and green roots of the beech-wood.
                “Oh, glory!” said Jimmy, throwing himself down. “How do you do?”
                The bailiff looked very nice, the girls thought. He was not wearing his
                    velveteens, but a grey flannel suit that an Earl need not have scorned; and his
                    straw hat would have done no discredit to a
                    Duke; and a Prince could not have worn a prettier green tie. He welcomed the
                    children warmly. And there were two baskets dumped heavy and promising among the
                    beech-leaves.
                He was a man of tact. The hot, instructive tour of the stone antediluvians, which
                    had loomed with ever-lessening charm before the children, was not even
                    mentioned.
                “You must be desert-dry,” he said, “and you'll be hungry, too, when you've done
                    being thirsty. I put on the kettle as soon as I discerned the form of my fair
                    romancer in the extreme offing.”
                The kettle introduced itself with puffings and bubblings from the hollow between
                    two grey roots where it sat on a spirit-lamp.
                “Take off your shoes and stockings, won't you?” said the bailiff in
                    matter-of-course tones, just as old ladies ask each other to take off their
                    bonnets; “there's a little baby canal just over the ridge.”
                The joys of dipping one's feet in cool running water after a hot walk have yet to
                    be described. I could write pages about them. There was a mill-stream when I was
                    young with little fishes in it, and dropped leaves that spun round, and willows
                    and alders that leaned over it and kept it cool, and—but this is not the story
                    of my life.
                When they came back, on rested, damp, pink feet, tea was made and poured out,
                    delicious tea, with as much milk as ever you wanted, out of a beer bottle with a
                    screw top, and cakes, and
                     gingerbread, and plums; and a big melon with
                    a lump of ice in its heart—a tea for the gods!
                This thought must have come to Jimmy, for he said suddenly, removing his face
                    from inside a wide-bitten crescent of melon-rind:—
                “Your feast's as good as the feast of the Immortals, almost.”
                “Explain your recondite allusion,” said the grey-flanneled host; and Jimmy,
                    understanding him to say, “What do you mean?” replied with the whole tale of
                    that wonderful night when the statues came alive, and a banquet of unearthly
                    splendour and deliciousness was plucked by marble hands from the trees of the
                    lake island.
                When he had done the bailiff said:—
                “Did you get all this out of a book?”
                “No,” said Jimmy, “it happened.”
                “You are an imaginative set of young dreamers, aren't you?” the bailiff asked,
                    handing the plums to Kathleen, who smiled, friendly but embarrassed. Why
                    couldn't Jimmy have held his tongue?
                “No, we're not,” said that indiscreet one obstinately; “everything I've told you
                        did happen, and so did the things Mabel told you.”
                The bailiff looked a little uncomfortable. “All right, old chap,” he said. And
                    there was a short, uneasy silence.
                “Look here,” said Jimmy, who seemed for once to have got the bit between his
                    teeth, “do you believe me or not?”
                
                “Don't be silly, Jimmy!” Kathleen whispered.
                “Because, if you don't I'll make you believe.”
                “Don't!” said Mabel and Kathleen together.
                “Do you or don't you?” Jimmy insisted, lying on his front with his chin on his
                    hands, his elbows on a moss-cushion, and his bare legs kicking among the
                    beech-leaves.
                “I think you tell adventures awfully well,” said the bailiff cautiously.
                “Very well,” said Jimmy, abruptly sitting up, “you don't believe me. Nonsense,
                    Cathy! he's a gentleman, even if he is a bailiff.”
                “Thank you!” said the bailiff with eyes that twinkled.
                “You won't tell, will you?” Jimmy urged.
                “Tell what?”
                “Anything.”
                “Certainly not. I am, as you say, the soul of honour.”
                “Then—Cathy, give me the ring.”
                “Oh, no!” said the girls together.
                Kathleen did not mean to give up the ring; Mabel did not mean that she should;
                    Jimmy certainly used no force. Yet presently he held it in his hand. It was his
                    hour. There are times like that for all of us, when what we say shall be done
                        is done.
                “Now,” said Jimmy, “this is the ring Mabel told you about. I say it is a
                    wishing-ring. And if you will put it on your hand and wish, whatever you wish
                    will happen.”
                “Must I wish out loud?”
                “Yes—I think so.”
                
                “Don't wish for anything silly,” said Kathleen, making the best of the situation,
                    “like its being fine on Tuesday or its being your favourite pudding for dinner
                    to-morrow. Wish for something you really want.”
                “I will,” said the bailiff. “I'll wish for the only thing I really want. I wish
                    my—I wish my friend were here.”
                The three who knew the power of the ring looked round to see the bailiff's friend
                    appear; a surprised man that friend would be, they thought, and perhaps a
                    frightened one. They had all risen, and stood ready to soothe and reassure the
                    new-comer. But no startled gentleman appeared in the wood, only, coming quietly
                    through the dappled sun and shadow under the beech-trees, Mademoiselle and
                    Gerald, Mademoiselle in a white gown, looking quite nice and like a picture,
                    Gerald hot and polite.
                “Good-afternoon,” said that dauntless leader of forlorn hopes. “I persuaded
                    Mademoiselle——”
                That sentence was never finished, for the bailiff and the French governess were
                    looking at each other with the eyes of tired travellers who find, quite without
                    expecting it, the desired end of a very long journey. And the children saw that
                    even if they spoke it would not make any difference.
                “You!” said the bailiff.
                “Mais...c'est donc vous,” said Mademoiselle, in a funny choky voice.
                And they stood still and looked at each other,
                     “like stuck pigs,” as Jimmy said later, for
                    quite a long time.
                “Is she your friend?” Jimmy asked.
                “Yes—oh yes,” said the bailiff. “You are my friend, are you not?”
                “But yes,” Mademoiselle said softly. “I am your friend.”
                “There! you see,” said Jimmy, “the ring does do what I said.”
                “We won't quarrel about that,” said the bailiff. “You can say it's the ring. For
                    me—it's a coincidence—the happiest, the dearest——”
                “Then you——?” said the French governess.
                “Of course,” said the bailiff. “Jimmy, give your brother some tea. Mademoiselle,
                    come and walk in the woods: there are a thousand things to say.”
                “Eat then, my Gerald,” said Mademoiselle, now grown young, and astonishingly like
                    a fairy princess. “I return all at the hour, and we re-enter together. It is
                    that we must speak each other. It is long time that we have not seen us, me and
                    Lord Yalding!”
                “So he was Lord Yalding all the time,” said Jimmy, breaking a stupefied silence
                    as the white gown and the grey flannels disappeared among the beech-trunks.
                    “Landscape painter sort of dodge—silly, I call it. And fancy her being a friend
                    of his, and his wishing she was here! Different from us, eh? Good old ring!”
                “His friend!” said Mabel with strong scorn: “don't you see she's his lover? Don't
                    you see she's the lady that was bricked up in
                    the convent, because he was so poor, and he couldn't find her. And now the
                    ring's made them live happy ever after. I am glad! Aren't you,
                    Cathy?”
                “Rather!” said Kathleen; “it's as good as marrying a sailor or a bandit.”
                “It's the ring did it,” said Jimmy. “If the American takes the house he'll pay
                    lots of rent, and they can live on that.”
                “I wonder if they'll be married to-morrow!” said Mabel.
                “Wouldn't it be fun if we were bridesmaids,” said Cathy.
                “May I trouble you for the melon,” said Gerald. “Thanks! Why didn't we know he
                    was Lord Yalding? Apes and moles that we were!”
                “I've known since last night,” said Mabel calmly; “only I promised
                    not to tell. I can keep a secret, can't I?”
                “Too jolly well,” said Kathleen, a little aggrieved.
                “He was disguised as a bailiff,” said Jimmy; “that's why we didn't know.”
                “Disguised as a fiddle-stick-end,” said Gerald. “Ha, ha! I see something old
                    Sherlock Holmes never saw, nor that idiot Watson, either. If you want a really
                    impenetrable disguise, you ought to disguise yourself as what you really are.
                    I'll remember that.”
                “It's like Mabel, telling things so that you can't believe them,” said Cathy.
                
                “I think Mademoiselle's jolly lucky,” said Mabel.
                “She's not so bad. He might have done worse,” said Gerald. “Plums, please!”
                
                There was quite plainly magic at work. Mademoiselle next morning was a changed
                    governess. Her cheeks were pink, her lips were red, her eyes were larger and
                    brighter, and she had done her hair in an entirely new way, rather frivolous and
                    very becoming.
                “Mamselle's coming out!” Eliza remarked.
                Immediately after breakfast Lord Yalding called with a wagonette that wore a
                    smart blue cloth coat, and was drawn by two horses whose coats were brown and
                    shining and fitted them even better than the blue cloth coat fitted the
                    wagonette, and the whole party drove in state and splendour to Yalding
                    Towers.
                Arrived there, the children clamoured for permission to explore the castle
                    thoroughly, a thing that had never yet been possible. Lord Yalding, a little
                    absent in manner, but yet quite cordial, consented. Mabel showed the others all
                    the secret doors and unlikely passages and stairs that she had discovered. It
                    was a glorious morning. Lord Yalding and Mademoiselle went through the house, it
                    is true, but in a rather half-hearted way. Quite soon they were tired, and went
                    out through the French windows of the drawing-room and through the rose garden,
                    to sit on the curved stone seat in the middle of the maze, where once, at the
                    beginning of things, Gerald, Kathleen, and
                    Jimmy had found the sleeping Princess who wore pink silk and diamonds.
                The children felt that their going left to the castle a more spacious freedom,
                    and explored with more than Arctic enthusiasm. It was as they emerged from the
                    little rickety secret staircase that led from the powdering-room of the state
                    suite to the gallery of the hall that they came suddenly face to face with the
                    odd little man who had a beard like a goat and had taken the wrong turning
                    yesterday.
                “This part of the castle is private,” said Mabel, with great presence of mind,
                    and shut the door behind her.
                “I am aware of it,” said the goat-faced stranger, “but I have the permission of
                    the Earl of Yalding to examine the house at my leisure.”
                “Oh!” said Mabel. “I beg your pardon. We all do. We didn't know.”
                “You are relatives of his lordship, I should surmise?” asked the goat-faced.
                “Not exactly,” said Gerald. “Friends.”
                The gentleman was thin and very neatly dressed; he had small, merry eyes and a
                    face that was brown and dry-looking.
                “You are playing some game, I should suppose?”
                “No, sir,” said Gerald, “only exploring.”
                “May a stranger propose himself as a member of your Exploring Expedition?” asked
                    the gentleman, smiling a tight but kind smile.
                
                The children looked at each other.
                “You see,” said Gerald, “it's rather difficult to explain—but—you see what I
                    mean, don't you?”
                “He means,” said Jimmy, “that we can't take you into an exploring party without
                    we know what you want to go for.”
                “Are you a photographer?” asked Mabel, “or is it some newspaper's sent you to
                    write about the Towers?”
                “I understand your position,” said the gentleman. “I am not a photographer, nor
                    am I engaged by any journal. I am a man of independent means, travelling in this
                    country with the intention of renting a residence. My name is Jefferson D.
                    Conway.”
                “Oh!” said Mabel; “then you're the American millionaire.”
                “I do not like the description, young lady,” said Mr. Jefferson D. Conway. “I am
                    an American citizen, and I am not without means. This is a fine property—a very
                    fine property. If it were for sale——”
                “It isn't, it can't be,” Mabel hastened to explain. “The lawyers have put it in a
                    tale, so Lord Yalding can't sell it. But you could take it to live in, and pay
                    Lord Yalding a good millionairish rent, and then he could marry the French
                    governess——”
                “Shish!” said Kathleen and Mr. Jefferson D, Conway together, and he added:—
                “Lead the way, please; and I should suggest that the exploration be complete and
                    exhaustive.”
                
                Thus encouraged, Mabel led the millionaire through all the castle. He seemed
                    pleased, yet disappointed too.
                “It is a fine mansion,” he said at last when they had come back to the point from
                    which they had started; “but I should suppose, in a house this size, there would
                    mostly be a secret stairway, or a priests' hiding place, or a ghost?”
                “There are,” said Mabel briefly, “but I thought Americans didn't believe in
                    anything but machinery and newspapers.” She touched the spring of the panel
                    behind her, and displayed the little tottery staircase to the American. The
                    sight of it worked a wonderful transformation in him. He became eager, alert,
                    very keen.
                “Say!” he cried, over and over again, standing in the door that led from the
                    powdering-room to the state bed-chamber. “But this is great—great!”
                The hopes of every one ran high. It seemed almost certain that the castle would
                    be let for a millionairish rent and Lord Yalding be made affluent to the point
                    of marriage.
                “If there were a ghost located in this ancestral pile, I'd close with the Earl of
                    Yalding to-day, now, on the nail,” Mr. Jefferson D. Conway went on.
                “If you were to stay till to-morrow, and sleep in this room, I expect you'd see
                    the ghost,” said Mabel.
                “There is a ghost located here then?” he said joyously.
                “They say,” Mabel answered, “that old Sir
                     Rupert, who lost his head in Henry the
                    Eighth's time, walks of a night here, with his head under his arm. But we've not
                    seen that. What we have seen is the lady in a pink dress with diamonds in her
                    hair. She carries a lighted taper,” Mabel hastily added. The others, now
                    suddenly aware of Mabel's plan, hastened to assure the American in accents of
                    earnest truth that they had all seen the lady with the pink gown.
                He looked at them with half-closed eyes that twinkled.
                “Well,” he said, “I calculate to ask the Earl of Yalding to permit me to pass a
                    night in his ancestral best bed-chamber. And if I hear so much as a phantom
                    footstep, or hear so much as a ghostly sigh, I'll take the place.”
                “I am glad!” said Cathy.
                “You appear to be very certain of your ghost,” said the American, still fixing
                    them with little eyes that shone. “Let me tell you, young gentlemen, that I
                    carry a gun, and when I see a ghost, I shoot.”
                He pulled a pistol out of his hip-pocket, and looked at it lovingly.
                “And I am a fair average shot,” he went on, walking across the shiny floor of the
                    state bed-chamber to the open window. “See that big red rose, like a
                    tea-saucer?”
                They saw.
                The next moment a loud report broke the stillness, and the red petals of the
                    shattered rose strewed balustrade and terrace.
                
                The American looked from one child to another. Every face was perfectly
                    white.
                “Jefferson D. Conway made his little pile by strict attention to business, and
                    keeping his eyes skinned,” he added. “Thank you for all your kindness.”
                
                “Suppose you'd done it, and he'd shot you!” said Jimmy cheerfully. “That
                        would have been an adventure, wouldn't it?”
                “I'm going to do it still,” said Mabel, pale and defiant. “Let's find Lord
                    Yalding and get the ring back.”
                Lord Yalding had had an interview with Mabel's aunt, and lunch for six was laid
                    in the great dark hall, among the armour and the oak furniture—a beautiful lunch
                    served on silver dishes. Mademoiselle, becoming every moment younger and more
                    like a Princess, was moved to tears when Gerald rose, lemonade-glass in hand,
                    and proposed the health of “Lord and Lady Yalding.”
                When Lord Yalding had returned thanks in a speech full of agreeable jokes the
                    moment seemed to Gerald propitious, and he said:—
                “The ring, you know—you don't believe in it, but we do. May we have it back?”
                And got it.
                Then, after a hasty council, held in the panelled jewel-room, Mabel said: “This
                    is a wishing-ring, and I wish all the American's weapons of all sorts were
                    here.”
                Instantly the room was full—six feet up the
                    wall—of a tangle and mass of weapons, swords, spears, arrows, tomahawks, fowling
                    pieces, blunderbusses, pistols, revolvers, scimitars, kreeses—every kind of
                    weapon you can think of—and the four children wedged in among all these weapons
                    of death hardly dared to breathe.
                “He collects arms, I expect,” said Gerald, “and the arrows are poisoned, I
                    shouldn't wonder. Wish them back where they came from, Mabel, for goodness'
                    sake, and try again.”
                Mabel wished the weapons away, and at once the four children stood safe in a bare
                    panelled room. But—
                “No,” Mabel said, “I can't stand it. We'll work the ghost another way. I wish the
                    American may think he sees a ghost when he goes to bed. Sir Rupert with his head
                    under his arm will do.”
                “Is it to-night he sleeps there?”
                “I don't know. I wish he may see Sir Rupert every night—that'll make it all
                    serene.”
                “It's rather dull,” said Gerald; “we shan't know whether he's seen Sir Rupert or
                    not.”
                “We shall know in the morning, when he takes the house.”
                This being settled, Mabel's aunt was found to be desirous of Mabel's company, so
                    the others went home.
                It was when they were at supper that Lord Yalding suddenly appeared, and
                    said:—
                “Mr. Jefferson Conway wants you boys to spend the night with him in the state
                    chamber. I've had beds put up. You don't mind, do you? He seems to think you've got some idea of playing
                    ghost-tricks on him.”
                It was difficult to refuse, so difficult that it proved impossible.
                Ten o'clock found the boys each in a narrow white bed that looked quite absurdly
                    small in that high, dark chamber, and in face of that tall gaunt four-poster
                    hung with tapestry and ornamented with funereal-looking plumes.
                “I hope to goodness there isn't a real ghost,” Jimmy whispered.
                “Not likely,” Gerald whispered back.
                “But I don't want to see Sir Rupert's ghost with its head under its arm,” Jimmy
                    insisted.
                “You won't. The most you'll see'll be the millionaire seeing it. Mabel said he
                    was to see it, not us. Very likely you'll sleep all night and not see anything.
                    Shut your eyes and count up to a million and don't be a goat!”
                But he was reckoning without Mabel and the ring. As soon as Mabel had learned
                    from her drab-haired aunt that this was indeed the night when Mr. Jefferson D.
                    Conway would sleep at the castle she had hastened to add a wish, “that Sir
                    Rupert and his head may appear to-night in the state bedroom.”
                Jimmy shut his eyes and began to count a million. Before he had counted it he
                    fell asleep. So did his brother.
                They were awakened by the loud echoing bang of a pistol shot. Each thought of the
                    shot that had been fired that morning, and opened eyes that expected to see a
                    sunshiny terrace and red-rose petals strewn
                    upon warm white stone.
                Instead, there was the dark, lofty state chamber, lighted but little by six tall
                    candles; there was the American in shirt and trousers, a smoking pistol in his
                    hand; and there, advancing from the door of the powdering-room, a figure in
                    doublet and hose, a ruff round its neck—and no head! The head, sure enough, was
                    there; but it was under the right arm, held close in the slashed-velvet sleeve
                    of the doublet. The face looking from under the arm wore a pleasant smile. Both
                    boys, I am sorry to say, screamed. The American fired again. The bullet passed
                    through Sir Rupert, who advanced without appearing to notice it.
                Then, suddenly, the lights went out. The next thing the boys knew it was morning.
                    A grey daylight shone blankly through the tall windows—and wild rain was beating
                    upon the glass, and the American was gone.
                “Where are we?” said Jimmy, sitting up with tangled hair and looking round him.
                    “Oh, I remember. Ugh! it was horrid. I'm about fed up with that ring, so I don't
                    mind telling you.”
                “Nonsense!” said Gerald. “I enjoyed it. I wasn't a bit frightened, were you?”
                “No,” said Jimmy, “of course I wasn't.”
                
                “We've done the trick,” said Gerald later when they learned that the American had
                    breakfasted early with Lord Yalding and taken the first train to London; “he's
                    gone to get rid
                     of his other house, and take this one. The
                    old ring's beginning to do really useful things.”
                
                “Perhaps you'll believe in the ring now,” said Jimmy to Lord Yalding, whom he met
                    later on in the picture-gallery; “it's all our doing that Mr. Jefferson saw the
                    ghost. He told us he'd take the house if he saw a ghost, so of course we took
                    care he did see one.”
                “Oh, you did, did you?” said Lord Yalding in rather an odd voice. “I'm very much
                    obliged, I'm sure.”
                “Don't mention it,” said Jimmy kindly. “I thought you'd be pleased and him
                    too.”
                “Perhaps you'll be interested to learn,” said Lord Yalding, putting his hands in
                    his pockets and staring down at Jimmy, “that Mr. Jefferson D. Conway was so
                    pleased with your ghost that he got me out of bed at six o'clock this morning to
                    talk about it.”
                “Oh, ripping!” said Jimmy. “What did he say?”
                “He said, as far as I can remember,” said Lord Yalding, still in the same strange
                    voice—“he said: ‘My lord, your ancestral pile is A1. It is, in fact, The Limit.
                    Its luxury is palatial, its grounds are nothing short of Edenesque. No expense
                    has been spared, I should surmise. Your ancestors were whole-hoggers. They have
                    done the thing as it should be done—every detail attended to. I like your
                    tapestry, and I like your oak, and I like your secret stairs. But I think your
                    ancestors should have left well enough alone,
                    and stopped at that.’ So I said they had, as far as I knew, and he shook his
                    head and said:—”
                “‘No, sir. Your ancestors take the air of a night with their heads under their
                    arms. A ghost that sighed or glided or rustled I could have stood, and thanked
                    you for it, and considered it in the rent. But a ghost that bullets go through
                    while it stands grinning with a bare neck and its head loose under its own arm
                    and little boys screaming and fainting in their beds—no! What I say is, If this
                    is a British hereditary high-toned family ghost, excuse Me!’ And he went off by
                    the early train.”
                “I say,” the stricken Jimmy remarked, “I am sorry, and I don't think
                    we did faint, really I don't—but we thought it would be just what you wanted.
                    And perhaps some one else will take the house.”
                “I don't know any one else rich enough,” said Lord Yalding. “Mr. Conway came the
                    day before he said he would, or you'd never have got hold of him. And I don't
                    know how you did it, and I don't want to know. It was a rather silly trick.”
                There was a gloomy pause. The rain beat against the long windows.
                “I say”—Jimmy looked up at Lord Yalding with the light of a new idea in his round
                    face. “I say, if you're hard up, why don't you sell your jewels?”
                “I haven't any jewels, you meddlesome young duffer,” said Lord Yalding quite
                    crossly; and taking his hands out of his
                    pockets, he began to walk away.
                “I mean the ones in the panelled room with the stars in the ceiling,” Jimmy
                    insisted, following him.
                “There aren't any,” said Lord Yalding shortly; “and if this is some more
                    ring-nonsense I advise you to be careful, young man. I've had about as much as I
                    care for.”
                “It's not ring-nonsense,” said Jimmy: “there are shelves and shelves
                    of beautiful family jewels. You can sell them and——”
                “Oh, no!” cried Mademoiselle, appearing like an oleograph of a
                    duchess in the door of the picture-gallery; “don't sell the family jewels——”
                “There aren't any, my lady,” said Lord Yalding, going towards her. “I thought you
                    were never coming.”
                “Oh, aren't there!” said Mabel, who had followed Mademoiselle. “You just come and
                    see.”
                “Let us see what they will to show us,” cried Mademoiselle, for Lord Yalding did
                    not move; “it should at least be amusing.”
                “It is,” said Jimmy.
                So they went, Mabel and Jimmy leading, while Mademoiselle and Lord Yalding
                    followed, hand in hand.
                “It's much safer to walk hand in hand,” said Lord Yalding; “with these children
                    at large one never knows what may happen next.”
            
            
                
                CHAPTER XII
                IT would be interesting, no doubt, to describe the feelings of Lord
                    Yalding as he followed Mabel and Jimmy through his ancestral halls, but I have
                    no means of knowing at all what he felt. Yet one must suppose that he felt
                    something: bewilderment, perhaps, mixed with a faint wonder, and a desire to
                    pinch himself to see if he were dreaming. Or he may have pondered the rival
                    questions, “Am I mad?” “Are they mad?” without being at all able to decide which
                    he ought to try to answer, let alone deciding what, in either case, the answer
                    ought to be. You see, the children did seem to believe in the odd stories they
                    told—and the wish had come true, and the ghost had
                    appeared. He must have thought—but all this is vain; I don't really
                    know what he thought any more than you do.
                Nor can I give you any clue to the thoughts and feelings of Mademoiselle. I only
                    know that she was very happy, but any one would have known that if they had seen
                    her face. Perhaps this is as good a moment as any to explain that when her
                    guardian had put her in a convent so that she should not sacrifice her fortune
                    by marrying a poor lord, her guardian had secured that fortune (to himself) by
                    going off with it to South America. Then, having no money left, Mademoiselle had
                    to work for it. So she went out as governess,
                    and took the situation she did take because it was near Lord Yalding's home. She
                    wanted to see him, even though she thought he had forsaken her and did not love
                    her any more. And now she had seen him. I daresay she thought about some of
                    these things as she went along through his house, her hand held in his. But of
                    course I can't be sure.
                Jimmy's thoughts, of course, I can read like any old book. He thought, “Now he'll
                        have to believe me.” That Lord Yalding should believe him had
                    become, quite unreasonably, the most important thing in the world to Jimmy. He
                    wished that Gerald and Kathleen were there to share his triumph, but they were
                    helping Mabel's aunt to cover the grand furniture up, and so were out of what
                    followed. Not that they missed much, for when Mabel proudly said, “Now you'll
                    see,” and the others came close round her in the little panelled room, there was
                    a pause, and then—nothing happened at all!
                “There's a secret spring here somewhere,” said Mabel, fumbling with fingers that
                    had suddenly grown hot and damp.
                “Where?” said Lord Yalding.
                “Here,” said Mabel impatiently, “only I can't find it.”
                And she couldn't. She found the spring of the secret panel under the window all
                    right, but that seemed to every one dull compared with the jewels that every one
                    had pictured and two at least had seen. But the spring that made the oak
                    panelling slide away and displayed jewels plainly to any eye worth a king's
                        ransom —this could not be found. More, it
                    was simply not there. There could be no doubt of that. Every inch of the
                    panelling was felt by careful fingers. The earnest protests of Mabel and Jimmy
                    died away presently in a silence made painful by the hotness of one's ears, the
                    discomfort of not liking to meet any one's eyes, and the resentful feeling that
                    the spring was not behaving in at all a sportsmanlike way, and that, in a word,
                    this was not cricket.
                “You see!” said Lord Yalding severely. “Now you've had your joke, if you call it
                    a joke, and I've had enough of the whole silly business. Give me the ring—it's
                    mine, I suppose, since you say you found it somewhere here—and don't let's hear
                    another word about all this rubbish of magic and enchantment.”
                “Gerald's got the ring,” said Mabel miserably.
                “Then go and fetch him,” said Lord Yalding—“both of you.”
                The melancholy pair retired, and Lord Yalding spent the time of their absence in
                    explaining to Mademoiselle how very unimportant jewels were compared with other
                    things.
                The four children came back together.
                “We've had enough of this ring business,” said Lord Yalding. “Give it to me, and
                    we'll say no more about it.”
                “I—I can't get it off,” said Gerald. “It—it always did have a will of its
                    own.”
                “I'll soon get it off,” said Lord Yalding. But he didn't. “We'll try soap,” he
                    said firmly. Four out of his five hearers knew just exactly how much use soap
                    would be.
                
                “They won't believe about the jewels,” wailed Mabel, suddenly dissolved in tears,
                    “and I can't find the spring. I've felt all over—we all have—it was just here,
                    and——”
                Her fingers felt it as she spoke; and as she ceased to speak the carved panels
                    slid away, and the blue velvet shelves laden with jewels were disclosed to the
                    unbelieving eyes of Lord Yalding and the lady who was to be his wife.
                “Jove!” said Lord Yalding.
                “Miséricorde!” said the lady.
                “But why now?” gasped Mabel. “Why not before?”
                “I expect it's magic,” said Gerald. “There's no real spring here, and it couldn't
                    act because the ring wasn't here. You know Phœbus told us the ring was the heart
                    of all the magic.”
                “Shut it up and take the ring away and see.”
                They did, and Gerald was (as usual, he himself pointed out) proved to be right.
                    When the ring was away there was no spring; when the ring was in the room there
                    (as Mabel urged) was the spring all right enough.
                “So you see,” said Mabel to Lord Yalding.
                “I see that the spring's very artfully concealed,” said that dense peer. “I think
                    it was very clever indeed of you to find it. And if those jewels are real——”
                “Of course they're real,” said Mabel indignantly.
                “Well, anyway,” said Lord Yalding, “thank you all very much. I think it's
                    clearing up. I'll send the wagonette home with you after lunch. And if you don't
                    mind, I'll have the ring.”
                
                Half an hour of soap and water produced no effect whatever, except to make the
                    finger of Gerald very red and very sore. Then Lord Yalding said something very
                    impatient indeed, and then Gerald suddenly became angry and said: “Well, I'm
                    sure I wish it would come off,” and of course instantly, “slick as butter,” as
                    he later pointed out, off it came.
                “Thank you,” said Lord Yalding.
                “And I believe now he thinks I kept it on on purpose,” said Gerald afterwards
                    when, at ease on the leads at home, they talked the whole thing out over a tin
                    of preserved pineapple and a bottle of gingerbeer apiece. “There's no pleasing
                    some people. He wasn't in such a fiery hurry to order that wagonette after he
                    found that Mademoiselle meant to go when we did. But I liked him better when he
                    was a humble bailiff. Take him for all in all, he does not look as if we should
                    like him again.”
                “He doesn't know what's the matter with him,” said Kathleen, leaning back against
                    the tiled roof; “it's really the magic—it's like sickening with measles. Don't
                    you remember how cross Mabel was at first about the invisibleness?”
                “Rather!” said Jimmy.
                “It's partly that,” said Gerald, trying to be fair, “and partly it's the being in
                    love. It always makes people like idiots—a chap at school told me. His sister
                    was like that—quite rotten, you know. And she used to be quite a decent sort
                    before she was engaged.”
                At tea and at supper Mademoiselle was
                    radiant—as attractive as a lady on a Christmas card, as merry as a marmoset, and
                    as kind as you would always be yourself if you could take the trouble. At
                    breakfast, an equal radiance, kindness, attraction, merriment. Then Lord Yalding
                    came to see her. The meeting took place in the drawing-room; the children with
                    deep discreetness remained shut in the school-room till Gerald, going up to his
                    room for a pencil, surprised Eliza with her ear glued to the drawing-room
                    key-hole.
                After that Gerald sat on the top stair with a book. He could not hear any of the
                    conversation in the drawing-room, but he could command a view of the door, and
                    in this way be certain that no one else heard any of it. Thus it was that when
                    the drawing-room door opened Gerald was in a position to see Lord Yalding come
                    out. “Our young hero,” as he said later, “coughed with infinite tact to show
                    that he was there,” but Lord Yalding did not seem to notice. He walked in a
                    blind sort of way to the hat-stand fumbled clumsily with the umbrellas and
                    mackintoshes, found his straw hat and looked at it gloomily, crammed it on his
                    head and went out, banging the door behind him in the most reckless way.
                He left the drawing-room door open, and Gerald, though he had purposely put
                    himself in a position where one could hear nothing from the drawing-room when
                    the door was shut, could hear something quite plainly now that the door was
                    open. That something, he noticed with deep distress and disgust, was the
                        sound of sobs and sniffs. Mademoiselle was
                    quite certainly crying.
                “Jimminy!” he remarked to himself, “they haven't lost much time. Fancy their
                    beginning to quarrel already! I hope I'll never have to be
                    anybody's lover.”
                But this was no time to brood on the terrors of his own future. Eliza might at
                    any time occur. She would not for a moment hesitate to go through that open
                    door, and push herself into the very secret sacred heart of Mademoiselle's
                    grief. It seemed to Gerald better that he should be the one to do this. So he
                    went softly down the worn green Dutch carpet of the stairs and into the
                    drawing-room, shutting the door softly and securely behind him.
                “It is all over,” Mademoiselle was saying, her face buried in the beady
                    arum-lilies on a red ground worked for a cushion cover by a former pupil: “he
                    will not marry me!”
                Do not ask me how Gerald had gained the lady's confidence. He had, as I think I
                    said almost at the beginning, very pretty ways with grown-ups, when he chose.
                    Anyway, he was holding her hand, almost as affectionately as if she had been his
                    mother with a headache, and saying “Don't!” and “Don't cry!” and “It'll be all
                    right, you see if it isn't” in the most comforting way you can imagine, varying
                    the treatment with gentle thumps on the back and entreaties to her to tell him
                    all about it.
                This wasn't mere curiosity, as you might think. The entreaties were prompted
                        by Gerald's growing certainty that
                    whatever was the matter was somehow the fault of that ring. And in this Gerald
                    was (“once more,” as he told himself) right.
                The tale, as told by Mademoiselle, was certainly an unusual one. Lord Yalding,
                    last night after dinner, had walked in the park “to think of——”
                “Yes, I know,” said Gerald; “and he had the ring on. And he saw——”
                “He saw the monuments become alive,” sobbed Mademoiselle: “his brain was troubled
                    by the ridiculous accounts of fairies that you tell him. He sees Apollon and
                    Aphrodité alive on their marble. He remembers him of your story. He wish himself
                    a statue. Then he becomes mad—imagines to himself that your story of the island
                    is true, plunges in the lake, swims among the beasts of the Ark of Noé, feeds
                    with gods on an island. At dawn the madness become less. He think the Panthéon
                    vanish. But him, no—he thinks himself statue, hiding from gardeners in his
                    garden till nine less a quarter. Then he thinks to wish himself no more a statue
                    and perceives that he is flesh and blood. A bad dream, but he has lost the head
                    with the tales you till. He say it is no dream but he is fool—mad—how you say?
                    And a mad man must not marry. There is no hope. I am at despair! And the life is
                    vain!”
                “There is,” said Gerald earnestly. “I assure you there is—hope, I
                    mean. And life's as right as rain really. And there's nothing to despair about.
                    He's not mad, and it's not a dream. It's magic. It
                    really and truly is.”
                
                “The magic exists not,” Mademoiselle moaned; “it is that he is mad. It is the joy
                    to re-see me after so many days. Oh, la-la-la-la-la!”
                “Did he talk to the gods?” Gerald asked gently.
                “It is there the most mad of all his ideas. He say that Mercure give him
                    rendezvous at some temple to-morrow when the moon raise herself.”
                “Right,” cried Gerald, “righto! Dear nice, kind, pretty Mademoiselle Rapunzel,
                    don't be a silly little duffer”—he lost himself for a moment among the consoling
                    endearments he was accustomed to offer to Kathleen in moments of grief and
                    emotion, but hastily added: “I mean, do not be a lady who weeps causelessly.
                    To-morrow he will go to that temple. I will go. Thou shalt go—he will go. We
                    will go—you will go-let 'em all go! And, you see, it's going to be absolutely
                    all right. He'll see he isn't mad, and you'll understand all about everything.
                    Take my handkerchief, it's quite a clean one as it happens; I haven't even
                    unfolded it. Oh! do stop crying, there's a dear, darling, long-lost lover.”
                This flood of eloquence was not without effect. She took his handkerchief,
                    sobbed, half smiled, dabbed at her eyes, and said: “Oh, naughty! Is it some
                    trick you play him, like the ghost?”
                “I can't explain,” said Gerald, “but I give you my word of honour—you know what
                    an Englishman's word of honour is, don't you? even if you are
                    French—that everything is going to be exactly what you wish. I've never told you
                    a lie. Believe me!”
                
                “It is curious,” said she, drying her eyes, “but I do.” And once again, so
                    suddenly that he could not have resisted, she kissed him. I think, however, that
                    in this her hour of sorrow he would have thought it mean to resist.
                “It pleases her and it doesn't hurt me—much,” would have been his thought.
                
                And now it is near moonrise. The French governess, half-doubting, half-hoping,
                    but wholly longing to be near Lord Yalding even if he be as mad as a March hare,
                    and the four children—they have collected Mabel by an urgent letter-card posted
                    the day before—are going over the dewy grass. The moon has not yet risen, but
                    her light is in the sky mixed with the pink and purple of the sunset. The west
                    is heavy with ink-clouds and rich colour, but the east, where the moon rises, is
                    clear as a rock-pool.
                They go across the lawn and through the beech-wood and come at last, through a
                    tangle of underwood and bramble, to a little level tableland that rises out of
                    the flat hill-top—one tableland out of another. Here is the ring of vast rugged
                    stones, one pierced with a curious round hole, worn smooth at its edges. In the
                    middle of the circle is a great flat stone, alone, desolate, full of meaning—a
                    stone that is covered thick with the memory of old faiths and creeds long since
                    forgotten. Something dark moves in the circle. The French girl breaks from the
                    children, goes to it, clings to its arm. It is Lord Yalding, and he is telling
                    her to go.
                “Never of the life!” she cries. “If you are mad
                    I am mad too, for I believe the tale these children tell. And I am here to be
                    with thee and see with thee—whatever the rising moon shall show us.”
                The children, holding hands by the flat stone, more moved by the magic in the
                    girl's voice than by any magic of enchanted rings, listen, trying not to
                    listen.
                “Are you not afraid?” Lord Yalding is saying.
                “Afraid? With you?” she laughs. He put his arm round her. The children hear her
                    sigh.
                “Are you afraid,” he says, “my darling?”
                Gerald goes across the wide turf ring expressly to say:—
                “You can't be afraid if you are wearing the ring. And I'm sorry, but we can hear
                    every word you say.”
                She laughs again. “It makes nothing,” she says; “you know already if we love each
                    other.”
                Then he puts the ring on her finger, and they stand together. The white of his
                    flannel coat sleeve marks no line on the white of her dress; they stand as
                    though cut out of one block of marble.
                Then a faint greyness touches the top of that round hole, creeps up the side.
                    Then the hole is a disc of light—a moonbeam strikes straight through it across
                    the grey green of the circle that the stones mark, and as the moon rises the
                    moonbeam slants downward. The children have drawn back till they stand close to
                    the lovers. The moonbeam slants more and more; now it touches the far end of the
                    stone, now it draws nearer and nearer to the
                    middle of it, now at last it touches the very heart and centre of that central
                    stone. And then it is as though a spring were touched, a fountain of light
                    released. Everything changes. Or, rather, everything is revealed. There are no
                    more secrets. The plan of the world seems plain, like an easy sum that one
                    writes in big figures on a child's slate. One wonders how one can ever have
                    wondered about anything. Space is not; every place that one has seen or dreamed
                    of is here. Time is not; into this instant is crowded all that one has ever done
                    or dreamed of doing. It is a moment, and it is eternity. It is the centre of the
                    universe and it is the universe itself. The eternal light rests on and
                    illuminates the eternal heart of things.
                
                None of the six human beings who saw that moon-rising were ever able to think
                    about it as having anything to do with time. Only for one instant could that
                    moonray have rested full on the centre of that stone. And yet there was time for
                    many happenings.
                From that height one could see far out over the quiet park and sleeping gardens,
                    and through the grey green of them shapes moved, approaching.
                The great beasts came first, strange forms that were when the world was
                    new—gigantic lizards with wings—dragons they lived as in men's
                    memories—mammoths, strange vast birds, they crawled up the hill and ranged
                    themselves outside the circle. Then, not from
                    the garden but from very far away, came the stone gods of Egypt and
                    Assyria—bull-bodied, bird-winged, hawk-headed, cat-headed, all in stone, and all
                    alive and alert; strange, grotesque figures from the towers of
                    cathedrals—figures of angels with folded wings, figures of beasts with wings
                    wide spread; sphinxes; uncouth idols from Southern palm-fringed islands; and,
                    last of all, the beautiful marble shapes of the gods and goddesses who had held
                    their festival on the lake-island, and bidden Lord Yalding and the children to
                    this meeting.
                Not a word was spoken. Each stone shape came gladly and quietly into the circle
                    of light and understanding, as children, tired with a long ramble, creep quietly
                    through the open door into the firelit welcome of home.
                The children had thought to ask many questions. And it had been promised that the
                    questions should be answered. Yet now no one spoke a word, because all had come
                    into the circle of the real magic where all things are understood without
                    speech.
                Afterwards none of them could ever remember at all what had happened. But they
                    never forgot that they had been somewhere where everything was easy and
                    beautiful. And people who can remember even that much are never quite the same
                    again. And when they came to talk of it next day they found that to each some
                    little part of that night's great enlightenment was left.
                All the stone creatures drew closer round the stone—the light where the moonbeam
                        struck it seemed to break away in spray
                    such as water makes when it falls from a height. All the crowd was bathed in
                    whiteness. A deep hush lay over the vast assembly.
                Then a wave of intention swept over the mighty crowd. All the faces, bird, beast,
                    Greek statue, Babylonian monster, human child and human lover, turned upward,
                    the radiant light illumined them and one word broke from all.
                “The light!” they cried, and the sound of their voice was like the sound of a
                    great wave; “the light! the light——”
                And then the light was not any more, and, soft as floating thistle-down, sleep
                    was laid on the eyes of all but the immortals.
                
                The grass was chill and dewy and the clouds had veiled the moon. The lovers and
                    the children were standing together, all clinging close, not for fear, but for
                    love.
                “I want,” said the French girl softly, “to go to the cave on the island.”
                Very quietly through the gentle brooding night they went down to the boat-house,
                    loosed the clanking chain, and dipped oars among the drowned stars and lilies.
                    They came to the island, and found the steps.
                “I brought candles,” said Gerald, “in case.”
                So, lighted by Gerald's candles, they went down into the Hall of Psyche! and
                    there glowed the light spread from her statue, and all was as the children had
                    seen it before.
                
                It is the Hall of Granted Wishes.
                “The ring,” said Lord Yalding.
                “The ring,” said his lover, “is the magic ring given long ago to a mortal, and it
                    is what you say it is. It was given to your ancestor by a lady of my house that
                    he might build her a garden and a house like her own palace and garden in her
                    own land. So that this place is built partly by his love and partly by that
                    magic. She never lived to see it; that was the price of the magic.”
                It must have been English that she spoke, for otherwise how could the children
                    have understood her? Yet the words were not like Mademoiselle's way of
                    speaking.
                “Except from children,” her voice went on, “the ring exacts a payment. You paid
                    for me, when I came by your wish, by this terror of madness that you have since
                    known. Only one wish is free.”
                “And that wish is——?”
                “The last,” she said. “Shall I wish?”
                “Yes—wish,” they said, all of them.
                “I wish, then,” said Lord Yalding's lover, “that all the magic this ring has
                    wrought may be undone, and that the ring itself may be no more and no less than
                    a charm to bind thee and me together for evermore.”
                She ceased. And as she ceased the enchanted light died away, the windows of
                    granted wishes went out, like magic-lantern pictures. Gerald's candle faintly
                    lighted a rudely arched cave, and where Psyche's statue had been was a stone
                    with something carved on it.
                
                Gerald held the light low.
                “It is her grave,” the girl said.
                Next day no one could remember anything at all exactly. But a good many things
                    were changed. There was no ring but the plain gold ring that Mademoiselle found
                    clasped in her hand when she woke in her own bed in the morning. More than half
                    the jewels in the panelled room were gone, and those that remained had no
                    panelling to cover them; they just lay bare on the velvet-covered shelves. There
                    was no passage at the back of the Temple of Flora. Quite a lot of the secret
                    passages and hidden rooms had disappeared. And there were not nearly so many
                    statues in the garden as everyone had supposed. And large pieces of the castle
                    were missing and had to be replaced at great expense. From which we may conclude
                    that Lord Yalding's ancestor had used the ring a good deal to help him in his
                    building.
                However, the jewels that were left were quite enough to pay for everything.
                The suddenness with which all the ring-magic was undone was such a shock to
                    everyone concerned that they now almost doubt that any magic ever happened.
                But it is certain that Lord Yalding married the French governess and that a plain
                    gold ring was used in the ceremony, and this, if you come to think of it, could
                    be no other than the magic ring, turned, by that last wish, into a charm to keep
                    him and his wife together for ever.
                
                Also, if all this story is nonsense and a make-up—if Gerald and Jimmy and
                    Kathleen and Mabel have merely imposed on my trusting nature by a pack of
                    unlikely inventions, how do you account for the paragraph which appeared in the
                    evening papers the day after the magic of the moon-rising?
                
                        “MYSTERIOUS DISAPPEARANCE OF A WELL-KNOWN CITY MAN,”
                     it said, and then went on to say how a gentleman, well known and much
                    respected in financial circles, had vanished, leaving no trace.
                
                    “Mr. U.W. Ugli,” the papers continued, “had remained late, working at his
                        office as was his occasional habit. The office door was found locked, and on
                        its being broken open the clothes of the unfortunate gentleman were found in
                        a heap on the floor, together with an umbrella, a walking stick, a golf
                        club, and, curiously enough, a feather brush, such as housemaids use for
                        dusting. Of his body, however, there was no trace. The police are stated to
                        have a clue.”
                
                If they have, they have kept it to themselves. But I do not think they can have a
                    clue, because, of course, that respected gentleman was the Ugly-Wugly who became
                    real when, in search of a really good hotel, he got into the Hall of Granted
                    Wishes. And if none of this story ever happened, how is it that those four
                    children are such friends with Lord and Lady Yalding, and stay at The Towers
                    almost every holidays?
                It is all very well for all of them to pretend that the whole of this story is my
                    own invention: facts are facts, and you can't explain them away.
            
            Printed in Great Britain by Butler & Tanner Ltd., Frome and
            London
                
        
    
