
     ----CITATION----
        Schreiner, Olive (1855-1920). The Political Situation. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 94 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2000-Sep-10).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7127
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                WORKS BY THE AUTHOR OF “THE STORY OF AN AFRICAN FARM.”
                
                    DREAMS. By OLIVE SCHREINER. 7th edition. Cloth. 2s. 6d.
                    DREAM LIFE AND REAL LIFE. By “RALPH IRON” (OLIVE SCHREINER). 3rd edition.
                        Paper, 1s. 6d; Cloth, 2s.
                
                LONDON: T. FISHER UNWIN.
            
            
                
                    THE POLITICAL SITUATION
                
                BY OLIVE SCHREINER AND C.S.
                        CRONWRIGHT-SCHREINER
                
                    London
                     T. FISHER UNWIN
                
                1896
            
            
                Preface
                
                A Paper read by S.C. Cronwright-Schreiner in the Town Hall, Kimberley, August 20,
                    1895.
            
        
        
            
                
                Introduction
                Two questions force themselves upon us when looking at our political situation in
                    the Cape Colony to-day.
                Firstly: What is the cause of that steady and persistent Retrogressive Movement
                    which has marked our political existence during the last years?
                Secondly: How is that Retrogressive Movement to be stayed?
            
            
                
                PART I.
                
                
                PART I.
                LET us glance first at the conditions of this Retrogressive
                    Movement, and see if its cause be discoverable.
                That such a movement has taken place admits of no doubt.
                Many of the measures passed have not only shown no tendency to accord with the
                    movement known as Liberal or Progressive in all countries inhabited by
                    Europeans; but they have shown a persistent tendency to move in a contrary direction, and even to undo the
                    more advanced and progressive legislative enactments of the past.
                
                    RETROGRESSIVE LEGISLATION.
                    While in all civilised countries where representative institutions prevail
                        the tendency is to move without intermission in the direction of a broadened
                        electoral basis, so that in several of the English colonies to-day we find
                        manhood suffrage, or one man one vote, or adult suffrage; and while even the
                        most backward of European countries are rapidly tending year by year towards
                            these conditions—we, I believe, alone
                        among civilised people have deliberately, during the last few years,
                        narrowed our basis,¹ and undone
                        the progressive work of the last generation.
                    So also while in all enlightened countries during the past sixty years public
                        opinion has been steadily advancing in the direction of doing away with the
                        lash as a punishment for minor offences, we in this country have not only,
                        during the last years, possessed certain individuals in our Legislative
                            
                            ¹ The Franchise Act, introduced and voted for unanimously by the last
                                Ministry, Mr. Rhodes being Premier, raised the monetary
                                qualification from £25 to £75 per annum.
                         Councils who have striven to
                        introduce an Act making legal the infliction of corporal punishment for the
                        smallest offences towards master or mistress on the part of household or
                        other servants, and which, if passed would be merely a recurrence to slavery
                        under a new name—but this Act was voted for by three members in the last
                        Ministry, two of them being Englishmen, and one the Premier, Mr. Cecil
                        Rhodes.
                    Again, while in all civilised countries the tendency, as each country
                        advances, is to consider more and more the welfare of its labouring classes;
                        to remove oppressive restrictions; to 
                            en-
                            endeavour
                         deavour by every lawful means to
                        increase their wages; and to regard the labourer, not merely as a means for
                        increasing the wealth of other sections of the community, but to legislate
                        for his welfare, and to regard his happiness as
                        one of the pressing considerations of the State—we in this country have,
                        under the Glen Grey Act of last year, brought in and supported by Mr. Cecil
                        Rhodes and his following, an enactment which compels even the
                        self-supporting and industrious native to work for the white man for a
                        certain time every year, whether he will or no; laying himself open to
                        imprisonment or fine if he refuse, even
                        though his going out to labour for the white man should entail the neglect
                        of his own cultivated lands.
                    So again, with regard to land tenure; while in all progressive countries
                        there is a tendency to obtain and retain as large a part as possible of
                        lands, mines, and great public works as the property of, and to be worked
                        for the benefit of, the nation as a whole—we, in this country, are for ever
                        and completely alienating our public lands, our minerals, our precious
                        stones, and even our public works.
                    And further, not only are we alienating them within our own boundaries, and allowing almost without a
                        struggle a small band of Monopolists to gain possession and control of that
                        wealth which should be ours and our children's to employ for the benefit of
                        the nation that shall be, but we are enabling them to grasp adjacent
                        territories still uninhabited by the white man, so that when the mass of
                        civilised men shall enter into occupation there, they will find nothing of
                        value left for themselves in that state which, by their labour, they will
                        have to build up; the alien will already have set his grasp upon all that is
                        fair or rich. For not as in other countries has the Monopolist risen up among us, a growth of our own; he comes
                        from a foreign clime, and sweeps bare the virgin land before him like the
                        locust; and, like the locust, leaves nothing for his successors but the
                        barren earth.
                    While in New Zealand and other advanced colonies every legislative effort is
                        being made to retain the land for the people, we are quietly allowing
                        ourselves to be stripped bare session after session, and are confiding our
                        possession into the hands of the Speculator and Monopolist.
                    Lastly, while in enlightened countries there is a continually increasing
                        tendency to raise the revenue, not by taxing the primary necessaries of life, upon which almost
                        the whole income of the labouring classes is necessarily expended, but to
                        raise it through the taxation of luxuries, whether by means of Excise or
                        Import dues, we in this country find that not only are our necessaries of
                        life already taxed to an appalling extent,¹ but a heavy additional tax on
                        wheat and flour, and an almost prohibitive tax on imported meat,² is being levied upon 
                            ¹ For instance, wheat 38 per cent., flour 59 per cent., unrefined
                                sugar 107 per cent., butter 20 per cent., cheese 43 per cent.,
                                candles 59 per cent., paraffin 202 per cent.
                        
                        
                            ² Frozen meat 2d. per lb., wheat an additional 38 per cent.
                         us; while diamonds (forming a
                        monopoly of which the Prime Minister is the head) and the intoxicating
                        liquors, inferior in quality, so largely produced in this country, are
                        allowed to go untaxed.
                    So also in small matters.
                    In Australia, where the material welfare of the country largely depends on
                        its wool, it has been clearly seen that to allow the land to be partially
                        ruined by the existence of an easily eradicated disease in the stock was
                        scandalous and immoral; and they have legislated so successfully that in
                        certain Australian colonies the insect which causes the disease has been exterminated. It has been felt in
                        those countries that the man who refuses to exterminate scab in his flocks
                        inflicts a merciless wrong and injustice upon his fellows whose flocks his
                        own infect; and the Australians have, by stringent legislation, made such
                        conduct impossible.
                    It is not necessary to say that in this country all attempts to legislate in
                        defence of the man who endeavours to keep his flocks healthy have been
                        crushed or emasculated.
                    Many other matters will suggest themselves to every one in which our
                        legislation has shown this retrograde tendency. We have no time now to enter
                            into details with regard to such
                        measures as Haarhoff's Bill, which, as introduced, was intended to make it
                        culpable for any aboriginal native, whether a domestic servant, householder,
                        newspaper editor, or clergyman, to be found walking on pavements in our
                        towns; and also to make it punishable for any aboriginal native to be found
                        out of doors within a township after nine o'clock at night unless he or she
                        had been given a pass by the Magistrate or other authorised person—a Bill
                        which also received the support of the existing Government.
                    On the whole, it is evident that no impartial mind can look at the course of our legislation during
                        recent years without realising the fact that while the wheels of legislation
                        in other civilised and Anglo-Saxon communities are tending to propel the car
                        of state forwards, ours are slowly but surely running us backwards.
                
                
                    RETROGRESSIVE FACTORS:
                    I. THE BOND.
                    Now, when we turn to inquire of ourselves what the reason of this
                        Retrogressive Movement may be, I think the superficial reply, given when we
                        glance merely at the surface of our public life, would be this: that the
                            Retrogressive Movement of late years
                        has been entirely the work of that organisation known throughout South
                        Africa as the Afrikander Bond; and which has in recent years attained to
                        such influence that it apparently coerces Ministry after Ministry, bending
                        them to its will. But a deeper examination will, I think, show us that the
                        Bond alone would not have been able to produce this movement. Another
                        influence, working into the hands of the Bond, has given it for a moment the
                        power of forcing this retrogression upon the country.
                    But before we turn to consider this secondary influence, let us glance at the Bond itself.
                    The Afrikander Bond was in its origin one of the most beneficent and
                        desirable institutions that have appeared in South Africa. It banded
                        together, and aroused to healthy interest in the affairs of the State, a
                        large body of men who, hitherto unorganised and isolated, had not taken that
                        share in the government of the State which their numbers would have
                        justified, and who were therefore unduly disregarded and possibly even
                        unjustly dealt with.
                    Started originally (as was inevitable under the circumstances) as a more or
                        less racial organisation, and opposing Boer
                        as Boer to Englishman as Englishman, this tone, nevertheless, as time
                        passed, quickly modified itself. To-day the organisation is merely an
                        organisation which draws together and unites for common purposes a number of
                        the early colonists and others holding certain views on social and political
                        matters, and in no way is it a merely racial organisation. To this extent it
                        forms a healthy and desirable element in our public life. Left to itself,
                        and having no adventitious power given it by an extraneous intervention, I
                        believe that, so far from being an evil, the existence of the Bond would awaken and maintain that healthy
                        friction and interaction of opposing views which is necessary to keep pure
                        and healthy the stream of political life.
                    But what has this extraneous influence been which has acted upon the Bond,
                        removing it from its healthy position, and enabled it to obtain for the
                        moment an undue power of enforcing its retrogressive views and methods upon
                        the whole Cape Colony?
                    To explain this influence it will be necessary to examine carefully the
                        nature and power of that small band of Monopolists to whom we before
                        referred.
                
                
                    
                    AFRICA BEFORE THE MONOPOLISTS.
                    South Africa is a country of vast resources. In spite of the dryness of much
                        of our climate, the rocky nature of certain tracts of our soil, taking the
                        whole of South Africa together from east to west, I do not hesitate to
                        assert that not many countries equally desirable and suitable for human
                        habitation will be found. More than a compensation for the dryness of our
                        climate is the absence of the numbing cold of extreme northern and southern
                        lands, which for months in the year renders outdoor labour difficult; yet more important is the absence of that
                        moist heat which in tropical countries renders exertion almost impossible to
                        the white man, and exhaustive to the dark. A country with temperate,
                        stimulating climate, which favours the health and energy of Europeans,
                        physically and mentally; which is favourable to the constitution of every
                        species of domestic animal, and is adapted to the cultivation of almost
                        every plant of the temperate and tropical zones; which, above all, is one of
                        the richest, if not the richest, country in the world in precious stones and
                        minerals of all kinds, and which was originally peopled only by barbarians—this country has always been
                        attractive to Europeans. For 200 years, Boer and Englishman, we have been
                        populating and steadily taking possession of the land, moving steadily
                        northwards. Our progress has not been made by a series of world-striking
                            coups d'état, it has been slow, but it
                        has been the more healthy, the more sure, the more deeply rooted, because of
                        its gradual and natural development.
                    Those superb pioneers of South Africa, its Boers, have continued to move, as
                        they have always moved, northward: our English colonists have been steadily
                        building up their 
                            vil-
                            villages
                         lages, founding their educational
                        institutions, and establishing a liberal and progressive Government. We have
                        not exhausted or even yet opened up many of the mineral resources of our
                        country; they are still here for the use of our own and future generations;
                        but so far as the colonists, Dutch and English, have populated the land, our
                        progress, though slow, has been wholesome; and the land as a whole has been
                        kept free from many of those crushing evils which afflict the older
                        civilisations of Europe, and even affect some of the younger dependencies.
                    There is a sense in which we have been a
                        poor people. We have had no mass of surplus wealth wrung from the labour of
                        a working class, but we have been a very rich people, perhaps one of the
                        richest on the earth, in the fact that grinding poverty, and the enormous
                        and superfluous wealth of individuals, were equally unknown among us. Our
                        people as a whole led a simple but comfortable life; our labouring classes
                        were engaged in no unhealthy occupation; starvation and want were unknown
                        among us; we were progressing steadily, if slowly, and keeping our national
                        wealth for the people as a whole, and for all who should labour among us.
                    
                    But a new element has burst into South African life.
                
                
                    RETROGRESSIVE FACTORS:
                    II. THE MONOPOLIST.
                    When diamonds were first discovered here, in the true old South African
                        manner, the find was considered as one for the people at large. For years
                        there flocked to the Diamondfields colonists from every part of the country,
                        and the wealth discovered went back to the homes of the people. That wealth
                        rebuilt many a Colonial homestead; it educated many a Colonial child; it
                        enabled landowners to carry out improvements otherwise 
                            impos-
                            impossible
                         sible; it saved from insolvency
                        many a Colonial firm which had sent members to dig; it spread throughout the
                        country a glow of well-being, owing to the general diffusion in small sums
                        of the wealth made by South Africa from the diamonds. Something analogous
                        took place in the early days at the Transvaal gold-fields; and gold-digging
                        has never yet become quite so complete a monopoly in the hands of a few as
                        the diamond industry.
                    Time forbids that I should enter into a detailed account of the way in which
                        these industries passed from their early and healthy condition; the facts are well known to you all. There
                        were in South Africa certain men from Europe, of great shrewdness, and with
                        large abilities for speculation, who saw at once the possibilities our
                        natural industries opened out before them. The many small original
                        possessors of the wealth of South Africa were not men of vast means, and
                        were rather hard workers than sharp financial speculators; and the
                        keen-sighted strangers quickly discerned that, could they buy out the small
                        interests one by one and then amalgamate among themselves, slowly but surely
                        the wealth of the country would pass into their hands.
                    
                    It needed no vast capital to buy out the original possessors.
                    To-day a small, resolute, and keen body of men, amalgamated into Rings and
                        Trusts, are quickly and surely setting their hands round the mineral wealth
                        of South Africa. Our diamonds are already a complete monopoly in their
                        hands; our gold, our coal, the richest portions of our soil, and even our
                        public works, are tending to fall into the grasp of our great amalgamators.
                        Not only are these men not South Africans by birth, which would in itself
                        matter nothing, but in the majority of cases they are men who regard South
                        Africa merely as a field for the making of
                        wealth and the furthering of their own designs. When they have attained
                        their end they do not feel themselves bound to the spot which has enriched
                        them, but in most cases retire to Europe to expend the wealth of South
                        Africa in the purchase of social distinction and in the luxuries of
                        old-world life, or in further increasing their command over South African
                        resources.
                    And South Africa grows poorer!
                    Yet, were this all, we should be inclined to say, What ground have we for
                        complaint? These men are but taking advantage of that competitive system which we to-day still uphold. If the men of
                        South Africa are not skilled enough in the methods of gathering together the
                        wealth of a people; and if they have not that fellow-feeling to be able to
                        defeat them, which would enable them to combine, and so retain the land for
                        the people at large; can we blame the men who take advantage of our
                        ignorance and disunion? They are but carrying out their operations on the
                        most approved financial principles! In truth, were this all, we should
                        merely be suffering in a most exaggerated degree from a disease common to
                        many other countries.
                
                
                    
                    THE UNION OF THE TWO FACTORS.
                    But our evil has not stopped here. Owing to the mental capacity of some of
                        these speculators, and to certain conditions in South African public life,
                        the conception suggested itself to them: that were it possible to obtain
                        complete control of the political machinery in any African State (notably of
                        the Cape Colony), and could they hold the reins of Government in their own
                        hands, their power for increasing their wealth, for resisting taxation upon
                        those industries of which they possessed monopolies, and for 
                            ex-
                            extending
                         tending their commercial
                        exploitations into adjoining territories, would be immeasurably increased.
                    This conception has been seized and carried out.
                    The means of its accomplishment in the Cape Colony has been through the
                        complete control gained by the Monopolists over the only group in South
                        Africa whom they could hope to guide, and whom, in view of their
                        extra-colonial plans, it was necessary to keep pacified and well in hand.
                    It is this command of the political machinery of the country by the
                        Monopolist, owing to his union with one
                        section, which constitutes the real disease from which the Cape Colony is
                        suffering. It is this which lies at the back of our Retrogressive Movement.
                    For the Monopolist Party, determined to obtain control of the political
                        machinery, could only do so by purchasing the co-operation of some truly
                        South African body. The more shrewd and modern section of South
                        Africans—professional men, merchants, go-ahead newspaper-reading
                        farmers—are, very many of them, unpurchasable; and those who are not would
                        demand a high price in concessions local and personal, and even then
                            could not be blindly led. Our working
                        population being mainly native, and very slightly enfranchised, is not at
                        the present day, and will not be for a long time to come, a party powerful
                        enough to make its support a strength to any leader. Then there remained for
                        the Speculatist and Monopolist Party but one body to whom it could turn with
                        any hope that it would place it in power. This body was the Retrogressive
                        Element in the Bond Party. It was purchased, not by the outlay of capital,
                        nor by offers of place and power to its members, but, much more cheaply for
                        the Monopolist, by the simple expedient of
                        offering to support those Retrogressive measures which without his aid could
                        never have found a place on our Colonial Statute-book.
                    The Kafir's back and the poor man's enhanced outlay on the necessaries of
                        life pay the Monopolist's bribe.
                    On the other hand, the Retrogressive Element, once enabled to pass such
                        measures as lay nearest its heart by the cooperation of the Monopolist with
                        his skill and intelligence, is willing to give him a perfectly free hand,
                        and support him in all measures which do not touch its Retrogressive
                        instincts. We thus have the Retrogressive
                        Party supporting the Monopolist in carrying out measures in which he has no
                        interest or concern, and the Monopolist assisting the Retrogressive Party in
                        setting upon the Statute-book measures which are repugnant to his own common
                        sense and shrewd modern outlook. Taking advantage of that childlike
                        simplicity which is at once the weakness and the greatest charm of the Boer,
                        he leads him whither he would and also whither he would not.
                    It is from this unnatural marriage that are born those evils under which the
                        Colony groans to-day. It is a marriage which must end in rupture when the Retrogressive Party discover how,
                        instead of a union of affection, they have been led into one of convenience,
                        and that the bridegroom is quite ready to forsake his bride when she has
                        nothing more to give him.
                    Nevertheless, to-day it is this coalition which is unpicking the progressive
                        enactments of the past, which is enabling the Monopolist Party to carry out
                        unhampered its financial depredations here and in the Northern Territories.
                        It is this coalition which, by giving political power to enormously wealthy
                        individuals, is corroding our public life, till the principle that every man has his price and can be squared, if
                        you can only find his figure, is becoming an established dogma.
                    Worse than any of those retrogressive measures which the Bondsman, in
                        simplicity and sincerity, desires to see enacted are those measures which he
                        allows others to take, who are neither simple nor sincere.
                
                
                    “BUT ARE THEY NOT ANGLICISING AFRICA?”
                    But I am aware it may be contended: “Granting what has been stated as being
                        exactly true; allowing that the Monopolist has filched away the wealth of South Africa; and granting that his
                        party, by coalescing with the extreme Retrogressive Party, has given it for
                        the time being an unhealthy preponderance; granting, further, that to retain
                        control over the Colonial Legislature squaring in all its multiple forms has
                        been, and is, a necessity on the part of the Monopolist Party; granting that
                        this is disastrous to our public and social life—yet is it not worth our
                        while to connive at all these conditions, and to abstain from disturbing
                        them, as long as the Monopolist Party is quietly and persistently moving in
                        a direction which tends to annihilate the
                        independence of two adjoining States, which shall ultimately render the
                        Englishman dominant throughout South Africa? At the cost of whatever evils
                        or injustice, is it not well to see extending northward the territory more
                        or less under British rule?”
                    We are all aware that this is often put forth plainly and in so many words as
                        a reason for abstaining from interference with the Monopolist Party. It is
                        said frequently, “I am for Rhodes, because, whatever he may or may not be,
                        he is slowly but surely undermining the Bond. Rhodes, and he only, will
                        within our lifetime so manipulate, that the
                        neighbouring Republics shall fall into our hands, and the English Party in
                        South Africa be dominant. And, after all, is not this extension to the
                        northward a very fine thing for the Colony?”
                    To this I would first reply: Is the undermining and breaking up of the Bond,
                        even if this should result from the alliance, worth the continual passing of
                        such measures as we shall have in the future to undo? Is the breaking up of
                        the Bond itself wholly to be desired? And if it were, is splitting the Bond
                        worth causing deep racial unrest and suspicion where none before existed, 
                            be-
                            between
                         tween ourselves and our native
                        fellow-inhabitants, the labouring class of South Africa, by the passing of
                        laws which seem to express an animus towards them which we do not feel; and
                        which constitute a course which, though for the moment it can work us no
                        practical evil, may in years to come, when too late, be the cause of bitter
                        regret? Is it worth while so vitiating the streams of our public life that
                        we have to look back with regret and almost incredulity at the nature of our
                        public life in years gone by, feeling its tone something almost too high
                        ever to have existed in South Africa? Is
                        all this worth paying, even if we are undermining the Bond?
                    I, for one, hold strongly that it is not. I do not wish to see the Bond
                        broken.
                    What I wish to see is the Bond holding its own manfully on all subjects,
                        social and political, and exercising that influence upon the Legislature and
                        public life of this colony which is proportionate to its numbers and
                        intelligence; thereby preventing legislation from taking a course which
                        might in any respect be unjust, or opposed to the benefit of an important
                        and respected section of the community.
                    Is the forced annexation of the neighbouring
                        States worth the price we are paying for it? If it be true, which I
                        question, that the union of the South African States can only be attained by
                        keeping at the head of affairs the Monopolist Party, is it worth keeping
                        them there?
                    I, for one, assert emphatically that it is not. I believe the confederation
                        of the South African States to be a desirable consummation; and I believe
                        further that it is one which will inevitably take place sooner or later.
                        Confederation now might have its advantages, and it would have
                        its disadvantages; but no confederation, however much we desire it, would
                            pay us for the internal disintegration
                        we are producing within our own State, through the support of the Monopolist
                        Party. When confederation does take place I believe it will be desirable
                        that it should take place, not as the result of skilful manipulations
                        analogous to those by which one shrewd speculator outspeculates another, but
                        through the gradual growth of a consciousness in the people of South Africa
                        that their interests are one, and that in union lies their strength. Such a
                        confederacy will, I believe, be as healthful, as strong, as beneficent as a
                        union brought about by sleight-of-hand and 
                            dis-
                            dissimulation
                         simulation will be unstable and
                        pernicious.
                
                
                    IS IT WORTH THE COST?
                    Further, and finally: Is it worth while for us, as Cape Colonists, to submit
                        to the dominion of the Monopolist, with all that pertains to it, simply
                        because we believe that that party, in annexing and apportioning the lands
                        north of the Transvaal and the Cape Colony, is thereby extending the
                        territories under the British flag?
                    I, for one, have not only a cordial affection for my own nation, but also for
                        British rule. I believe that, with all its
                        faults, it is often a beneficent and a generous rule; and were it possible
                        to annex to-morrow, without injustice to others, or heavy moral and social
                        loss to ourselves, the whole of Africa, from the Straits of Gibraltar and
                        the Isthmus of Suez to the Cape Colony, and place it under the English rule,
                        I, for one, should cordially welcome that possibility.
                    But a nation, like an individual, may pay too dearly for desirable objects.
                        It is highly probable that Naboth's vineyard, lying as it did contiguous to
                        the domains of Ahab, formed an exceedingly desirable adjunct to that
                        property. The mistake in Jezebel's
                        calculation lay in the fact that the price ultimately to be paid for the
                        annexation somewhat exceeded the value of the land.
                    I hold, much as I desire to see the extension of the British Empire, that the
                        Colony is in this case paying too dearly for this extension. I hold that no
                        possible accretion of kudos and racial
                        gratification can ever repay us for the heavy price in the demoralisation of
                        our institutions, and the retrogression in our legislation, which the Cape
                        Colony is paying to support the Monopolist Group, and enable it to undertake
                        its annexations.
                    
                    Further, leaving this point of view for a moment, and taking the lower and
                        purely monetary standpoint, let us see what the Colony really has to gain
                        commercially by these annexations south of the Zambesi.
                    It appears to me there is a good deal of misunderstanding upon this point. I
                        cannot see, from this lower standpoint—nor have I ever yet met a man who
                        could explain to me how he saw—that the taking over of Mashonaland and
                        Matabeleland by the Chartered Company would increase the wealth of the men
                        and women of the Cape Colony. It appears to me more than probable, when we study the map, and other conditions of
                        the problem, that the opening up of these territories, so far from
                        increasing the wealth and influence of the Cape Colony, will ultimately
                        subtract from both. If Rhodesia and the country north of the Transvaal
                        should become populated and important, I cannot for a moment conceive that
                        they will still continue to draw up their supplies from the very toe of
                        South Africa; that new routes will not be formed, along which trade will
                        make its way to Central and Eastern South Africa, without coming into
                        contact with the extreme south of the Continent.
                    
                    Further, we as Cape Colonists have now more land than we
                        require; our need is for men, and I do not see how the annexation of the
                        Chartered Company tends to draw them into the Cape Colony. I take it that,
                        however wire-pullings may avail for a few years, ultimately the traffic both
                        in passengers and in goods to East and Central South Africa will find the
                        shortest and cheapest routes, which will not be through the Cape Colony; and
                        the Cape Colony, denuded to a large extent of its trade and its importance
                        in South Africa, will have to depend solely upon its internal resources,
                            which, abundant though they be, are now
                        allowed to lie undeveloped, while the people's eyes follow this northern
                        will-o'-the wisp.
                    But it may be said, and said very truly: “Granting that the Cape Colony does
                        not gain either directly or indirectly through the possession of Rhodesia by
                        the Chartered Company, and even that it loses heavily in the material sense,
                        there is yet no reason, from the broadest humanitarian standpoint, why it
                        should not support the movement.”
                    Now, I fully allow that it may be right and desirable that a portion of a
                        people should sacrifice itself for the benefit of the whole, or that a whole nation should
                        sacrifice itself for the benefit of humanity at large. That this has not yet
                        been done in the history of the world by no means proves that it is
                        undesirable or may not yet be done. But what I most strongly hold is that in
                        this instance sacrifice on the part of the Cape Colony of its internal
                        interests, social and material, if undertaken to enable the Chartered
                        Company to obtain possession of the territories north of the Transvaal, will
                        be sacrifice thrown away.
                    I know that it will be said, “But think of the terrible 
                            con-
                            contingency
                         tingency had the Boers entered
                        that country and started a new republic there!”
                
                
                    CHARTERED VERSUS BOER RULE.
                    I believe I shall not be suspected of unreasonable advocacy of
                        Boer rule; but I do contend that South Africa as a whole, and the
                        English-speaking world at large, would have lost less by the civilisation of
                        these countries under the auspices of the Boer flag than under that of the
                        Chartered Company. Boer rule has its evils; the Boer is seldom just and
                        considerate to the aborigines of a country which he annexes (though, as a rule, I do not know whether they
                        tend to disappear faster under his rule than under that of other white men);
                        but as far as the European is concerned, the rule in a Boer republic is, in
                        most respects, healthy and natural. The Cape Colonist or foreigner from
                        Europe has never been refused admittance to these republics; and if in the
                        Transvaal the civic franchise has been somewhat injudiciously withheld from
                        certain newcomers, they possess every other privilege and right. As time
                        passes the little racial line between English colonists and their
                        forerunners will pass away throughout South
                        Africa; the English language will be universally used by all cultured
                        persons; English manners and customs will prevail (Pretoria is to-day more
                        English than Cape Town!); and in the long run, which in this case will only
                        be a run of thirty or forty years, it will make no difference whether any
                        part of this country was first civilised under the flag of the Boer or the
                        Englishman. The incoming streams of English-speaking men and women will
                        slowly but continuously mingle themselves with the body of earlier settlers,
                        and in forty years' time, whether we wish it or do not, there will be no Boer or Englishman as such in South
                        Africa—only the great South African people, speaking the English tongue,
                        following English precedents, and as closely united to England as Australia
                        or Canada.
                    This process of amalgamation and growth was in progress long before the
                        European speculator arrived among us, and it will go on were the Fates to
                        remove him from us tomorrow.
                    Had Dutch Voortrekkers taken possession of the regions between the Zambesi
                        and Transvaal there would not, on the whole, have been greater loss of
                        native life, nor more perfidy in dealing
                        with them, than under the Chartered Company; and one gigantic evil which is
                        now fixing itself upon those territories would not have come into existence.
                        The Boer tradition, like that of the genuine English settler all over the
                        world, has been this: that, in the new lands they inhabited, the soil and
                        the valuable productions of the land should be apportioned fairly among the
                        men who came personally to dwell and labour on it with their wives and
                        families. Rare minerals have not even as a rule been regarded as the
                        property of the individuals in whose lands they were found, but they have been regarded as the
                        property of the community, to any member of which it was open to obtain a
                        share in that property if he were willing to expend his own labour upon it.
                        In States founded in this manner the land and its wealth tended to be
                        distributed with tolerable equality throughout the community. This
                            will never be in Rhodesia. By the time the mass of men from the
                        Colony or Europe enter the country they will find everything of value—mines,
                        fertile lands, town properties—all in the hands of a small knot of men
                        headed by the leaders of the Chartered
                        Company, consisting in part of persons who have never seen South Africa,
                        such as the Duke of Fife and others.
                    The great evil is not that these men possess the country as shareholders and
                        directors in the Chartered Company, nor that they retain the right to levy a
                        tribute of 50 per cent. on all precious stones and minerals found in the
                        entire territory, and that for many years to come they will hold extensive
                        control over the whole government of the country; but, what is immeasurably
                        more disastrous, before the country can be peopled by the ordinary colonist
                        a small knot of men (not the body of
                        shareholders as a whole, but that small body in whose interest the Chartered
                        Company was formed, and for whose benefit it is worked) will, either in
                        their own persons or by means of their emissaries, have gone over the whole
                        land, and whatever of real value these lands contain will be their private
                        property. If the Chartered Company were in ten or fifteen years' time, or
                        much sooner, to explode, and as a company to loosen its control over the
                        land and people, it would yet be found that the whole real wealth of the
                        country was appropriated and in the hands of a few private 
                            indivi-
                            individuals
                         duals forming syndicates and
                        trusts.
                    The worst social diseases which afflict the old countries of Europe will make
                        their appearance full grown in this virgin African land at the outset of its
                        career. That unequal division of wealth, which bestows vast riches upon some
                        individuals while the majority of the community are in abject poverty, is,
                        in those old countries, the outcome of institutions which are the growth of
                        centuries, and it is often softened by traditions binding the owners of
                        wealth to the land itself, and those who labour on it. In these new
                        territories no 
                            tradi-
                            traditions
                         tions will bind the owner to the
                        land and soften his relations with the people; the financial possessors of
                        the wealth of the country will exhibit on a colossal scale the worst evils
                        of absentee ownership, or the possession of a country by men who regard land
                        and people merely as a means for acquiring wealth.
                    The political life in these territories will be diseased. Even in the Cape
                        to-day we have seen how disastrous are the effects of gigantic wealth held
                        in a young country by a few individuals. There may be no deliberate
                        intention to bribe, but the mere possession of wealth which is enormous in comparison to the wealth of
                        the whole community (if the possessors be not singularly large and
                        impersonal in their aims, and if they interest themselves at all in
                        politics) throws into their hands a power of conferring benefits or
                        inflicting evils which will inevitably lead to an undue subjection to their
                        will; to the vitiation of representative institutions, and the destruction
                        of independent public life.
                    The colonist and the stranger from Europe will arrive and settle in these
                        territories, but they will discover that its townships, its valuable mines,
                        its richest lands have already been taken
                        possession of. They will find it a cake from which all the plums have been
                        carefully extracted, or like a body when the vultures have visited it,
                        leaving nothing but bare bones.
                    Is it for colonisation carried out on such lines as these that
                        the Cape Colony is to be asked to sacrifice its internal political and
                        social welfare? Is it to aid and abet a handful of men in gaining this
                        disastrous control over South Africa and its resources that the Cape Colony
                        is to obliterate itself? Is it to submit to any use which may be made of it,
                        so it only affords a stepping-stone, and gives prestige in Europe by
                            allowing its public appointments to be
                        held by them?
                    I think not.
                
                
                    CHARTERED VERSUS FOREIGN RULE.
                    We all know what a bugbear to some even perfectly sincere minds is the
                        conception of the possibility of Boer, Portuguese, German, or French
                        occupation of African territories, and we all know what use is frequently
                        made of this bugbear by those interested in annexations. But I think no
                        practical man who carefully examines the question can really think that the
                        Cape Colonists as such have anything to fear from the annexations of other European Powers in Africa. And I would
                        go further. I would say—If all English colonisation had been, or were in the
                        future to be, carried out along the lines and according to the methods of
                        the Chartered Company, that I cannot see wherein South Africa would gain by
                        aiding and abetting such a form of colonisation over that inaugurated by
                        other European nations. Colonisation by the British people is not the same
                        thing as colonisation under the Chartered Company. The first is supposed to
                        have as its object the development of the people it takes under its rule,
                        and the planting of a free and untrammelled
                        branch of the Anglo-Saxon race upon the land; the aim of the Chartered
                        Company is to make wealth out of land and people.
                    But last of all, it may be said (and this criticism appears to me profoundly
                        just): “It is very well to blame the Monopolist, with his ready brains and
                        his quick wit, for the uses which he is making of South Africa; it is very
                        well to blame the Retrogressive Party for playing into his hands, and making
                        possible his monopolies and increasing acquisitions, making him a permanent
                        institution in the land, which the South
                        Africa of the future may hopelessly endeavour to rid herself of; it is very
                        well to blame the Monopolist and Retrogressionist—but how did they gain, and
                        how do they maintain, this absolute domination over the land? Do
                        they comprise within themselves all the intelligence, all the
                        determination of South Africa? Are they our only political units?”
                    I can but say in reply, I believe it is not just to throw the whole blame of
                        our position either upon the Monopolist or the Retrogressionist. The
                        Monopolist is simply the acute business man who has been enabled to carry
                        out his plans successfully and on a
                        colossal scale, owing to the possession of tact and foresight, and, perhaps,
                        unusual disregard of collateral issues. The high intellectual capacity shown
                        by many of these men compels admiration and awakens our sympathy; and we can
                        only regret that abilities which in some cases amount to genius should not
                        be employed in a direction more productive of good to humanity. The
                        Monopolist of genius is often like a great body of waters expending itself
                        in causing inundations where it might produce fertility.
                    For the Retrogressionist there is yet more unlimited excuse. He has been somewhat hardly dealt with in the
                        past. That he should desire to make his influence felt when at last the
                        opportunity offers itself, and that he should use his power without full
                        consideration for the rights of others, is not unnatural. He alone among
                        South Africans has, during the last years, shown a capacity for standing
                        resolutely by his principles; and we can only feel regret that so much
                        integrity and manly determination is not expended on our side, but against
                        us.
                    But there are two other sections of our population upon whom it appears to me 
                            un-
                            unlimited
                         limited blame rests, and for whom
                        it is difficult to see an excuse.
                
                
                    TWO OTHER CULPRITS.
                    Firstly. There is that section of the general public which, knowing that we
                        are governed by representative institutions, and that every citizen, however
                        humble, is more or less responsible for the well-being of the State, yet
                        regards public affairs with apathy; and, absorbed in personal interests, is
                        absolutely ungrateful of its citizens' duties.
                    Secondly (and for this section it appears to me that no reprobation can be
                        too strong). We have a party of men 
                            through-
                            throughout
                         out South Africa, by education
                        and natural bias, Liberals; by public profession, Progressives; men who on
                        their own showing see clearly the evils of Retrogressive and Monopolist
                        principles, and who constitute part of our so-called Progressive Party.
                        These men, in spite of their profession, are continually found, as public
                        men and leaders, using the subtlest methods of the Monopolist, coquetting
                        with any and every party which appears likely to aid them to office and
                        power. Without the genius of the Monopolist, they sink to his opportunism
                        for the attainment of the smallest ends; as
                        private individuals they oppose such progressive measures which would entail
                        inconvenience upon themselves, personally or locally, and connive at certain
                        retrogressive measures when doing so confers benefit upon themselves,
                        without the true Retrogressive's excuse of earnest conviction. It is these
                        men, whether politicians, progressive farmers, or enlightened commercial
                        men, to whom we should naturally look for deliverance from the evils which
                        oppress the Colony; yet it is exactly these men who in some instances have
                        made possible the despotism of the Monopolist, and the triumph of the Retrogressionist, by their complete
                        absorption in their own small aims, and their wilful disregard of impersonal
                        obligations. The Monopolist may be organically incapacitated for seeing
                        further; the Retrogressionist, in spite of his sincerity, cannot see
                        further; the so-called Progressive sees further, but refuses to act at any
                        cost to himself. Such men are the bane of the country.
                    There is, however, yet another section of our community distinct from all
                        those we have noticed. It is to this section, I think, that we must look to
                        inaugurate a truly Progressive movement in Colonial affairs. And this brings us back to the question with
                        which we started: HOW IS THE RETROGRESSIVE MOVEMENT IN THE CAPE COLONY TO BE
                        STAYED?
                
            
            
                
                PART II.
                
                
                PART II.
                
                    HOW IS THE RETROGRESSIVE MOVEMENT TO BE STAYED?
                    TO this question the reply seems obvious: That in a country
                        with representative institutions Retrogressive legislation must be
                        prevented, if prevented at all, by the intervention of such Progressive
                        Elements as exist within the community itself.
                
                
                    
                    IS THERE A PROGRESSIVE FACTOR?
                    But when we look at the Cape Colony at the present day, the doubt at first
                        forces itself upon us whether there is a Progressive Element at all. Would
                        this unbroken spell of Retrogressive legislation and political flaccidity be
                        possible were really Progressive Elements existent in the country?
                    In times past there was such an element. Small but united, there was a
                        Progressive Party of which no advanced European people need have been
                        ashamed. From the days of Pringle and Fairbairn to the days of Sir George Grey and Saul Solomon, not
                        only was South Africa not wanting in liberal and advanced individuals, but
                        these individuals had their influential following. It was by these men and
                        their party that our most advanced institutions were created, our
                        comparatively broad basis of enfranchisement instituted, our most beneficent
                        educational establishments, native and otherwise, founded, and the
                        recognition on our Statute-book of the fact that to all men, irrespective of
                        race and colour, the law should deal out an even-handed justice—this and
                        much more was the work of these men.
                    
                    When to-day we see how steadily we are undoing this work, and legislating in
                        opposition to it, and how entirely opposed to the Progressive spirit of the
                        past is that which guides our public councils to-day, the suggestion will
                        force itself upon us: “Is not the Progressive Element dying or dead among
                        us?”
                    For years past Retrogressive measure after Retrogressive measure has stained
                        our Statutebook; undesirable commercial contracts have been entered into,
                        subjecting public interests to personal gains; the name and prestige of the
                        Cape Colony have been used for the 
                            attain-
                            attainment
                         ment of extra-colonial ends in a
                        manner we do not desire—yet we have remained passive. In town or village no
                        public meetings have been called to protest against these courses of action.
                        In no case have even the smallest knots of men been found banded together to
                        defend the country against these changes. If we except the recent protest
                        against the bread and meat tax and against the appointment of one of the
                        Monopolist Party to the highest function of the State, the country has
                        remained in a condition of deadly passivity and almost comatose inertia.
                    On the surface I allow it appears that there
                        is no progressive element in South Africa, but I believe this appearance is
                        not a reality.
                    I believe that in every town, and in every district and village, will be
                        found (though not invariably among its most important or wealthy members) a
                        certain body of men and women, from the bank clerk to the clergyman, from
                        the shop assistant to the small tradesman, from the schoolmaster or mistress
                        to the enterprising young farmer, Dutch or English, from the working man to
                        the wholesale merchant, who are as essentially advanced in their view as any
                        body of men or women in any country:
                        persons wholly unaffected by the disease which seems eating the core of our
                        national life—that fevered desire to grow wealthy without labour, as
                        individuals by reckless speculation, and as a nation by annexations.
                    And if it be asked how, if this Progressive Element exists among us, it has
                        become so completely inoperative, my reply is simply—Because it lacks
                            organisation.
                    At the time of the Restoration there were not fewer advanced and progressive
                        Republicans in England than there had been in the lifetime of Oliver
                        Cromwell. They had not died nor emigrated
                        at the accession of Charles the Second; they were still there, holding their
                        views with the same strength and with perhaps an added bitterness, but as a
                        power in the land they were annihilated. They had lost their leader; they
                        had lost their organisation; and the extreme Retrogressive Party had
                        attained to both of these. That mass of persons, indifferent to reforms and
                        public interests, which is found in every country, and which sides with each
                        dominant party because it has the power of conferring benefits and
                        inflicting injuries, went over to the Royalists as it had before gone over to the Republicans. The
                        Democratic Party for years was inoperative in England, but it was not dead,
                        only disorganised; it came to life again, more democratic than ever.
                    So, looking nearer home, there were not, eleven years ago, fewer
                        non-progressive and reactionary persons in the Colony than at the present
                        day: there were probably more.
                    The men who have raised the franchise, who have taxed the necessaries of
                        life, who have crushed all endeavours to contend with scab, who session by
                        session attempt to pass a Flogging Bill which would disgrace a semi-barbarous people, have not sprung into
                        existence to-day; they were here, holding their views if possible more
                        ardently than to-day, but they were powerless; they could not even
                        materially impede Progressive legislation, because they were unorganised.
                    This position is ours to-day. Exactly as the Anti-Progressive individual sat
                        on his farm, unable to give expression to his views, because he sat alone,
                        and had no means of communicating with his like-thinking and like-feeling
                        fellows, so to-day the Progressive men and women stand alone in this
                        country; they are not aware of their own
                        numbers; they are not aware of the intensity of common conviction which
                        would bind them into a solid body were they once in touch.
                    The organisation of these now scattered and isolated units into one united
                        whole is, I believe, the one and only means of staying the Retrogressive
                        Movement in this country. And the great practical question before us now
                        is—How is this to be done?
                    I allow that I see great difficulties in the way.
                
                
                    WANTED: A LEADER.
                    One of the first and most essential conditions for 
                            orga-
                            organising
                         nising a party is the possession
                        of a leader; we will not say of an Oliver Cromwell, but at least of a
                        progressive J. H. Hofmeyr; of a man profoundly in sympathy with the
                        movement, with a gift for organisation, and a willingness to sink his own
                        personal interests to a large extent in that of his work. It is such a man
                        the Progressive Element in this country looks for. We have not found him
                        yet. We have more than one public man of undoubted ability; and we have at
                        least one man who carries with him the confidence and affection of every
                        Progressive in the country; but either from some peculiarity of nature, from absence of leisure,
                        or other circumstances, none of these men stand forward, devoting time and
                        energy to the formation of such a party throughout the country. We have not
                        a man to whom the Progressive can turn and say: “Organise and lead us; we
                        will follow!” The necessity is therefore imposed upon us of organising
                        ourselves. Nor do I know that this is wholly a calamity.
                    The most vital and worldwide movements of the present day, such as those of
                        labour and woman, have not been organised or led by one 
                            command-
                            commanding
                         ing intellect. They have sprung
                        up spontaneously, as it were, in a thousand centres, and then slowly
                        interorganised. It is a healthy indication of a profound necessity when men
                        at independent centres organise themselves, guided by a common impulse
                        without any coercing leadership.
                    This is exactly what we see taking place in the Colony to-day. The imposition
                        of the bread and meat tax and the appointment of Sir Hercules Robinson have
                        drawn together small knots of Progressive men to protest against these
                        things; and in such towns as Port Elizabeth and in Cape Town, under the presidency of Mr. J. Rose-Innes,
                        powerful Progressive Associations have been started.
                    And the time is, I believe, now ripe for drawing together all the scattered
                        Progressive Elements of the country, and uniting them as a wide and
                        non-parochial whole. One, and not the least, of the great advantages of such
                        union would be its tendency to prevent the growth in the Progressive Party
                        of that spirit of localism which seems to rest as an incubus upon all
                        Colonial endeavours, and which would be entirely at variance with the true
                        spirit of a Progressive Organisation.
                    
                    To place at the head of the united branches no man could be found more
                        admirably suited than Mr. J. Rose-Innes, the president of the South African
                        Political Association of Cape Town, if he were found willing to accept the
                        post.
                
                
                    FORM ASSOCIATIONS.
                    I think as a first and practical step towards this larger union it would be
                        desirable that wherever possible, in towns or districts, a few progressive
                        men should join together and form Progressive Associations, however small in
                        size, analogous to those now existing in Port Elizabeth and Cape Town. It would then be desirable that these bodies
                        should enter into communication with each other, and draw up a body of
                        principles broad enough to make it possible for every really progressive
                        individual to subscribe to them, and distinct enough to make it quite
                        impossible for any thoroughly non-progressive person to enter the
                        organisation. These principles, I think, should be made the basis of all
                        future organisation.
                    As a second step, I think it would be advisable that, if possible, a delegate
                        should be appointed to visit each town and village in the Colony to attempt
                        to inaugurate a branch of our
                        organisation, however small, in that place. The advantage of this course is
                        obvious. It is often difficult for any individual in a small Colonial town
                        to rise up and inaugurate a movement of any kind, unless he chance to be of
                        exceptional importance, monetarily or otherwise, in the place. In many towns
                        there may be even a large number of individuals, progressive at heart, who
                        would join such an organisation, and who would labour for it vigorously and
                        be able to extend its growth, who yet might not feel themselves in a
                        position to rise up and take the initiative in instating it.
                    It may be objected that, in places where
                        the branch would at first consist of only a dozen individuals, it would be
                        useless, and serve only to show the barrenness of the land!
                    But, firstly, while an organisation consisting of a dozen isolated
                        individuals in some town or village might be of small importance in itself,
                        connected as it would ultimately be with the organisations in larger towns
                        throughout the country, its strength would be largely increased; and it
                        would form the germ of what might in time become an extensive growth. It is
                        exactly that we may not lose these driblets of progressive thought and
                            feeling all over the Colony that I
                        would advocate the endeavour to start such small branch organisations.
                    If further it be asked, What the principles are which are broad enough to
                        unite all the Progressive Elements in the country? I think an answer will
                        not be very difficult.
                    There are one or two principles subscription to which will make a man a
                        Liberal and Progressive in any country in the world. Their practical
                        application will vary infinitely according to the conditions of the Society
                        in which they are applied; but they are as simple as universal.
                    
                    The fundamental principle¹ upon
                        which Progressive Liberalism all the world over is based, whether
                        consciously or unconsciously, and to which it must finally return if it
                        would justify its varying forms of practical action, is the axiom, however
                        variously worded, which asserts that the mental and physical welfare and
                        happiness of 
                            hu-
                            humanity
                        
                        
                            ¹ There is also that ancient categorical imperative which has lain
                                behind the Liberalism of all religious natures from the days of
                                Buddha and Confucius to that of Jesus and the Socialistic movement
                                of to-day—“Do ye unto others as ye would they should do unto
                                you”—and which, perhaps, after all, is the most satisfactory
                                statement of the fundamental principle of Liberalism yet
                            formulated.
                         manity as a whole is the end of
                        all wisely directed human effort, whether of individuals or nations; that
                        one of the main aims of all government must be the defence of its weaker
                        members from the depredations of the stronger, and that no course of action
                        which bases the welfare of sections of the community on the sufferings and
                        loss of other sections is justifiable.
                    Analysis shows that it is upon this wide principle, however worded, that all
                        forms of Modern Liberalism are ultimately based. It is by their more or less
                        complete harmony with it that the thoroughness of their Liberalism may be tested. Nevertheless,
                        it is perhaps too wide a principle on which to base directly a practical
                        organisation intended for the many; more especially in a country where some
                        men's conceptions with regard to Liberal Progressivism are somewhat
                        indefinite—a prominent public man having declared that he considered himself
                        a Progressive because he voted for the construction of railways which would
                        be for his own pecuniary benefit.
                
                
                    THREE TEST QUESTIONS.
                    In the Cape Colony, and for such an Association as we 
                            pro-
                            propose
                         pose, there are, I think, three
                        subjects, a man's attitude with regard to which would amply suffice to show
                        his adherence or otherwise to this fundamental principle underlying all
                        Liberalism; and which, I think, would be adequate as a test of the fitness
                        of any individual for membership in a Progressive Organisation.
                    The first of these is the Labour Question; the question of the relation
                        between the propertied, and therefore powerful, class, and the less
                        propertied, and therefore weaker, class.
                    In South Africa this question assumes gigantic importance, including as it
                        does almost the whole of what is popularly
                        termed the Native Question; that question being indeed only the Labour
                        Question of Europe complicated by a difference of race and colour between
                        the employing and propertied, and the employed and poorer classes.
                    There are two attitudes with regard to the treatment of this Native Labouring
                        Class: the one held by the Retrogressive Party in this country regards the
                        Native as only to be tolerated in consideration of the amount of manual
                        labour which can be extracted from him; and desires to obtain the largest
                        amount of labour at the cheapest rate possible; and rigidly resists all endeavours to put him on an equality
                        with the white man in the eye of the law. The other attitude, which I hold
                        must inevitably be that of every truly progressive individual in this
                        country, is that which regards the Native, though an alien in race and
                        colour and differing fundamentally from ourselves in many respects, yet as
                        an individual to whom we are under certain obligations: it forces on us the
                        conviction that our superior intelligence and culture render it obligatory
                        upon us to consider his welfare; and to carry out such measures, not as
                        shall make him merely more useful to ourselves, but such as shall tend also to raise him in the scale
                        of existence, and bind him to ourselves in a kindlier fellowship.
                    As a man takes one or other of these attitudes I believe he will find himself
                        in accord, not merely with the Progressive Element in this country, but with
                        the really advanced and Progressive Movement all the world over. In fact, I
                        go so far as to think that the mere subscription to the latter mode of
                        regarding the Labour and Native question would constitute an adequate test
                        in this country as to a man's attitude on all other matters social and
                        political.
                    
                    The second subject is that of Taxation.
                    The Retrogressive holds, all the world over, that taxation may be levied for
                        the benefit of the few. The Progressive attitude is that which holds that
                        taxation should fall upon the luxuries rather than upon the necessaries of
                        life; that it should not press more heavily upon the poor than upon the
                        wealthy; and that the principle of protection, worked so as to increase the
                        wealth of certain sections of the community at the expense of others, is at
                        all points to be fought.
                    The third subject upon which I believe the views of every 
                            ad-
                            advanced
                         vanced Progressive must and will
                        coincide is that of enfranchisement.
                    No man who does not hold that as a State develops its electoral basis should
                        be extended to obviate the possibility of the claims of the unrepresented
                        classes being ignored, and their welfare subordinated to that of
                        represented, though smaller classes, and who does not hold that
                        Parliamentary representation should increasingly tend to represent
                        individuals rather than property, can find himself in harmony with the
                        principles of any real Progressive Organisation.
                    It may be said that these principles are
                        too vague; that the articles to which a man would have to subscribe before
                        joining such an organisation should be more detailed.
                    But I think a little consideration will show that upon all the practical
                        questions which have been brought before our Colonial Legislature during the
                        last few years, subscription to these three principles of action would have
                        determined a man's attitude. The Labour Tax, Haarhoff's Curfew Bell, the
                        Bread and Meat Tax, the Strop Bill, the Scab Act, &c.—on all these a
                        man's position will be certainly and at once determined by the fact of his
                        being willing to subscribe to these three
                        principles. A more detailed test for fitness of membership in the
                        organisation would, I think, be superfluous.
                    But it may, on the other hand, be objected that these tests would be too
                        stringent; that certain men would be found quite willing to join a so-called
                        Progressive and anti-Bond Party who at the same time might not be willing to
                        subscribe to one or all these tests.
                    Now to these I would unhesitatingly answer: That such men are not wanted in
                        our organisation; men who, while holding retrogressive views on the most important social questions, but prompted
                        by an unworthy racial prejudice, would attempt to join or use the
                        organisation for racial purposes, hoping to oppose or weaken the party
                        behind the Bond, are precisely that class of persons we should seek to
                        exclude from our organisation. They would weaken us, and defeat that very
                        end for which the organisation was formed. It must of necessity be a first
                        principle of such an association as we wish to see started that no racial or
                        class distinction of any kind should concern it, or be allowed to weigh with
                        us. We should rejoice as cordially to welcome and support the Dutchmen as the Englishmen; the
                        newcomer as the old inhabitant of the country; the man as the woman; the
                        wealthy as the indigent. Our sole requirement from any individual wishing to
                        join us, or seeking our support, should be, Does he share our principles? If
                        he does, he is one of us; if he does not, though he should call himself a
                        Progressive leader, and though he should be seven times over an Englishman,
                        he is not of us.
                    If it be further suggested that, by pursuing this course, we should alienate
                        large bodies of persons who would otherwise append themselves to us, and who might ultimately so swell our numbers
                        as to make us the dominant party in the State, I would frankly reply that no
                        mere increase of bulk could compensate us for degeneracy in fibre, and that
                        we do not desire the adhesion of such individuals to our party. Our strength
                        will not, and cannot, rest upon mere numbers. It must lie in the enthusiasm,
                        in the superior intelligence, in the unwavering adhesion to impersonal aims,
                        and in the close-knit union of our members.
                    The Progressive Element in this country is, and must be for many years to
                        come, necessarily in a minority, exactly as the extreme Non-Progressive Element is in a minority.
                        Between us lies the large inert body of politicians and private persons,
                        indifferent to any aims but those of personal success, and the person of
                        sincere but very mixed convictions. This body follows to-day the
                        Non-Progressive Party, because it is the only vigorous and unbending
                        political organisation existent in the country. If to-morrow there were in
                        the field a small but vigorous Progressive Party, well organised, and not
                        willing to capitulate upon any terms, this inert, self-seeking body might
                        also find it useful to serve us; it might
                        even ultimately give to us the appearance of being the majority in the
                        State, exactly as it to-day does to the Retrogressive Party. But as from the
                        day on which the extreme Retrogressive Party shall resign its principles,
                        and with a feeble opportunism shall receive into its own organisation this
                        inert mass, the day of its dissolution and disappearance from Governmental
                        control will have arrived; so also with the Progressive Party. From the day
                        on which it sacrifices its position as the enlightened leading minority, and
                        modifies its principles for the purpose of making them acceptable to the
                            indifferent majority in the country,
                        from that moment it will have nullified the aim with which it was started,
                        and all its powers of accomplishment.
                    I think we cannot too strongly impress upon, and hold up before ourselves,
                        the fact that such a Progressive Party as we hope to see in this country can
                        only maintain its power by firm adhesion to its own principles, and not by
                        any dependence on numbers.
                    If it be questioned how, in default of large numbers, we expect to exert
                        influence and make our principles operative in the country, I would reply,
                        that for many years our primary practical
                        aim must be the attempt to educate public opinion up to our own standpoint.
                    Our means for accomplishing this would, it appears to me, be mainly three.
                    Firstly. We shall form a centre, however small, in every town or village from
                        which, by the exercise of personal influence, the view of life which the
                        organisation represents would tend to spread, and however small the branch
                        might be, it would keep before the eye of the public the fact that such a
                        view did exist.
                    Secondly. We should use the Press.
                
                
                    
                    USE THE PRESS.
                    The great strength of such a party as the Progressive Party of South Africa
                        must be would lie in the superior intellectual enlightenment of its members.
                        I take it that it is not likely any large body of men will join such an
                        organisation who have not the intelligence and culture which would enable
                        them to think somewhat deeply upon social matters. I believe we should
                        largely represent the thinking element in the community, whether our members
                        were drawn from the labouring or wealthier class.
                    Such a body, with no narrow personal ends
                        to seek, will naturally desire the largest publicity for its views, and will
                        also have the power of expressing them. Of such a party the main weapon is
                        the Press. It will find one of its chief duties for many years in constantly
                        raising and animating public discussion upon all questions, social and
                        political, as they arise, and in unflinchingly enunciating its own views,
                        and calling forth the enunciation of those of others—a function of paramount
                        importance in a country where men often, even in private conversation, fear
                        to speak above their breath, lest a bird of the air should carry it.
                    
                    We shall make rich use of all the public journals in the country. But if the
                        Progressive Party is to become a power which shall make itself felt, I
                        believe its most powerful weapon must be the possession of a journal devoted
                        entirely to its principles.
                    With a very few exceptions there is a generous attitude maintained in
                        Colonial papers, and their columns are freely open to correspondents. We are
                        rich in able and liberal editors, and our Press in many ways is in advance
                        of other Colonial institutions. But the fact, which all who have been behind
                        the scenes of Press life in this country
                        are aware of (and of which the public appears not to be
                        aware!), is that no editor, however able and advanced, has, as a rule, an
                        absolute control over his paper. In the vast majority of cases in the
                        Colony, as in England, the newspaper is a property held by a larger or
                        smaller number of shareholders; it is finally theirs, and should the editor
                        himself be a large shareholder, he has yet not always an independent and
                        free hand. A certain amount of liberty is granted him, and he may imagine
                        himself independent; but when crucial commercial or political questions
                        arise, at the very moment when he would
                        most desire to stand firm, and unqualifiedly to express his own views, those
                        persons with whom the real and ultimate control rests may step in; and
                        whether simply fearing that the commercial value of the paper may decline if
                        an unpopular course be persisted in; or, immeasurably worse still, actuated
                        by personal motives, may desire to use the paper for their own commercial or
                        political benefit—then he may be required to alter his tone or remain
                        silent.
                    No knowledge of the high principle and personal integrity of an editor can
                        give the public assurance that personal 
                            influ-
                            influences
                         ences may not be compelling him
                        to modify his course. He is often but an able and highly accredited agent;
                        and he may, under these circumstances, conscientiously feel that he is not
                        justified in pursuing a course which would result in commercial loss to
                        those whose property he manages. He may throw up his control (which is often
                        impossible), or he must remain silent. Men who would be incorruptible before
                        any conceivable species of bribe might, nay, almost must, be amenable to
                        this pressure of circumstances and obligations.
                    If a paper is to represent undeviatingly and sincerely a certain body of opinions, it is absolutely
                        necessary either that it should be completely under the control of one man
                        who is wholly devoted to the body of principles to be maintained, or it must
                        be the property of an organisation representing these principles. Even in
                        this case, were the shares held by members of the organisation, it would be
                        necessary for them to safeguard themselves from the possibility of
                        individual shareholders being induced to sell their shares to the persons,
                        or emissaries of the persons, who would be interested in vitiating the
                        standpoint of the paper.
                    It would be necessary to make it impossible
                        for any shareholder to dispose of a share without the consent of either the
                        Executive Committee of the Organisation, or of all other shareholders, and
                        for any individual shareholder to possess more than a certain limited number
                        of shares. It would then be open only to the personal corruption of
                        individual shareholders,—a contingency against which no foresight or caution
                        can avail, but of which there would be little danger were the original
                        shareholders carefully selected.
                    A paper safeguarded through one or other of these conditions is, I believe,
                        absolutely essential to the real success
                        of a Progressive Organisation. Such a paper the Progressive Element in South
                        Africa possessed when Saul Solomon had absolute control of the Cape
                            Argus; and such a paper must yet be the rallying point of the
                        Progressive Party in this country.
                    The third method by which the association could impress itself upon the
                        country would be by the share it would take in political life.
                
                
                    INFLUENCE POLITICIANS!
                    If it be questioned how, if our numbers be too small to return a majority to
                        the Legislative Councils and to place our
                        men in office, we propose to influence political life, I would reply, that
                        we neither expect nor, for many years to come, desire to see a Ministry
                        formed of our own men.
                    The truly Progressive Element in this country is to-day in a minority, of
                        about the same numerical strength as the extreme Retrogressive Party;
                        neither of these parties to-day is strong enough to put into office and to
                        support, even for a time, a Ministry of its own, consistently carrying out
                        its views. Neither of them could command so completely the Intermediate or
                        Colourless Party as to give it a working
                        majority, save by bartering away the very principles, the support of which
                        formed the sole cause of its existence.
                    The extreme Retrogressive Party in this country has maintained its power, as
                        all conscientious minorities must do, by not seeking to grasp in its hands
                        the ostensible reins of Government, and by its leaders being willing to
                        forego the sweets of office for the sake of effectively impressing the views
                        of the party upon successive Ministries.
                    By such a course of action the Irish Party, composing a minority in the
                        Imperial Parliament, has yet for years made itself a power, courted and feared by successive Liberal and Conservative
                        Governments, and has been able to force its views before the public. Had its
                        leaders as individuals thirsted, not for the success of the principles they
                        represented, but merely to attain office in some incoming Government, they
                        would either have had to desert their party, or their party would have been
                        compelled to rest content with the pleasure of saying, “There are Irishmen
                        in the Government,” in place of seeing their aims upheld. Had the people of
                        Ireland set before themselves as their main end the seeing of certain of their representatives on the Government
                        benches, they could only have attained it by their representatives ceasing
                        to be Irishmen in everything but name; and the Irish vote would have been
                        annihilated at the very moment of a shallow seeming triumph.
                    Such would be the fate of the truly Progressive or truly Non-Progressive
                        party in this country, if it should set before itself, as its chief end, the
                        placing of its own men in office.
                    In a country with representative institutions a minority, unless it uses
                        force or bribery, cannot place its men in office, and maintain
                        them there for even the shortest period,
                        without sacrificing its very existence. This is trite and obvious, but we
                        dwell upon it because it appears often completely overlooked in the
                        discussion of political affairs in this country; and the fatuous conception
                        seems to prevail that a party can only affect the country and the course of
                        legislation if some person, or persons, who ostensibly belong to its
                        organisation, at whatever cost to its principles, hold office in the
                        Government of the day.
                    The truly Progressive Element in this country will not contain within itself
                        the large majority of the inhabitants for
                        the next five, ten, or perhaps even fifteen years. If the majority of our
                        inhabitants stand, in fifteen years' time, where the majority of the
                        inhabitants of New Zealand stand to-day, we shall feel that the richest
                        hopes of the Progressives of this country have been fulfilled.
                    The part which the Progressive Association in this country will have to play,
                        perhaps for many years, is that of a small, united party, strong in its
                        intelligence and determination, and, above all, in the absolutely
                        unpurchasable nature of its members. A small but united body, it would have
                        to be reckoned with by each successive
                        Ministry as it took office, and, because it could neither be purchased or
                        bent, would be a thorn in the side of every Government intent upon carrying
                        out measures at variance with its views.
                    If it be asked by what exact means we could make our influence felt by these
                        successive Ministries, I would reply that we should influence them, firstly,
                        by our free and uncompromising discussion in the Colonial and European press
                        of their methods of action and the measures which they introduced. In a
                        country which is rotten with opportunism, and where we have reached a point in which a man dares
                        hardly to give utterance in whispers to his political convictions, and in
                        which hundreds of men and women sit spell-bound, afraid of losing their
                        daily bread if they utter a word in condemnation of existing powers, the
                        fact of persistent and fearless discussion of governmental methods would
                        render the continuance of certain existing lines of action on the part of
                        Government almost impossible. Autocratic Governments have nothing so much to
                        dread as free criticism.
                    Secondly: Our branches would form centres in every town and village for the prompt calling of public
                        meetings to protest against undesirable measures. Had such an organisation
                        been in existence recently when the news reached this Colony of an unpopular
                        appointment, instead of a knot of Progressive men in a few Colonial towns
                        having to organise themselves into small bodies for that particular purpose,
                        it would merely have been necessary to send the news to all branches, and
                        within forty-eight hours, in almost every town and village in the Colony,
                        those men who were opposed to the appointment would have met and discussed
                            the matter, and sent forth their
                        protests.
                    Thirdly: We should influence the political world through our electoral
                        functions.
                
                
                    A GROUP OF TWELVE.
                    I do not doubt that there would be ten or a dozen men in Parliament who would
                        represent our views, some or all of them belonging to our organisation.
                        These men, feeling that they had a considerable body behind them, might more
                        easily be induced to stand firmly, and refuse all offers of office, or local
                        and personal benefits, which could be accepted only at the cost of laying aside their functions of
                        criticism.
                    At elections we should exert our influence. In every instance we should, if
                        we were true to our principles, throw our weight, small though it might be,
                        into the scale of that man, whether Dutchman or Englishman, whom we could
                        most depend upon to act in accordance with our principles or do least
                        violence to them. Where we could not possibly return a member of our own we
                        could, by throwing our weight in the scale of the man most desirable or
                        least objectionable, turn many elections. If, as an organisation, we stood
                        firm to our 
                            convic-
                            convictions
                         tions, we should frequently have
                        the casting vote.
                    I think it will be necessary for us to set clearly before ourselves from the
                        very start the fact that we have not organised ourselves to support any
                        given body of politicians, but to see our policy enforced; that we have
                        nailed to our mast-head, not the names of individuals, but a declaration of
                        our principles. While a man acts in accordance with these, he is one of us;
                        when he does not, then he ceases to be of us. We could as little have
                        supported the recent Ministry under Mr. Rhodes, because three of the ablest
                        and most liberal men of the country bore
                        office in it, as we could the present Ministry. The bitterest wrong which
                        leaders can inflict upon their crew is when they take service on the enemy's
                        ship, and prevent their fellows from attacking it, for fear of wounding
                        them. Under such circumstances there is nothing to be done but to fire,
                        regardless whether you bring down your own absconded leaders or the enemy;
                        and this, even though they may have been partly actuated by a desire to
                        impede the enemy's sailing powers when they took service.
                    As Progressives, we should not be moved an inch out of our path by the fact that any man calls himself
                        an Oppositionist, or is the member of any existing Government. We should
                        endeavour to support or oppose any man or Ministry with strict impartiality,
                        exactly as it opposed or supported the principles we represent. As long as a
                        man, in any single instance, supported them, did he call himself Bondsman or
                        Retrogressive, he should have our steadfast approval.
                    That captious criticism, and disingenuous judgment, which would condemn any
                        measure brought in or supported by a member of an opposing political
                        faction, and which is almost 
                            in-
                            inevitable
                         evitable where men have turned
                        politics into a game, and are playing to make points, should be wholly
                        foreign to the spirit of such an organisation as our own, whose chief end
                        should be the passing of those measures we believe beneficial, and not the
                        seeing of those men who call themselves our representatives for the moment
                        captains in the political game.
                    Were such an organisation as I have suggested formed which would draw into
                        itself the scattered Progressive Elements throughout the whole country,
                        despising none; and which should seek to draw its strength, not from
                        numbers, but from the determination and
                        the impersonal aims of its members; which should endeavour to influence
                        political life without throwing itself into the whirlpool of political
                        ambitions; and which should stand outside, consistently fighting for its own
                        principles—such an organisation, though including perhaps at first not many
                        noted political names, but formed of the people and for the people, would, I
                        believe, slowly and surely grow. For the first two years our occupation
                        would be mainly that of self-organisation, and the education of public
                        feeling. I believe that in five years' time we should be a power in the land, able to restore the Retrogressive
                        Influences to that healthy and natural position in which they would form a
                        conservative safeguard, preventing the inauguration of measures too far in
                        advance of the social condition of the community. I believe that in fifteen
                        or twenty years' time our aims, which now appear chimerical to a part of the
                        community, will be then but an attempt to give voice to the convictions of
                        the people. And this I believe is worth working and waiting for.
                
            
            UNWIN BROTHERS, THE GRESHAM PRESS, WOKING AND LONDON.
        
    
